tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 103th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Özcan Purçuku, a member of the Parliament's Court of Parliament, who wants to talk about the problems of our Roma citizens. Here you go, Mr. Purçu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I give you all my love. Guinea is a sad day, and we have two martyrs in Van and Mardin. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to their families, my condolences to all of Turkey. Except, as a government, you have a responsibility, you have a responsibility if we take the news of the martyr, my friends. You promised in all the elections that the news of the martyr would not be heard. We will stop terror, we will destroy it. You said so. Don't promise anyone you can't keep. Let me make this clear. (CHEERING) Tell people what you will keep your promise to do. Also, our Göztepe Sports Club has risen to the Super League. I congratulate the president of the Göztepe Sports Club, his football players, all of his administration for giving Izmir (Izmir) and Turkey great joy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, about the olive grove. We're the children of the Aegean, we grew up in olive groves, and we've got a lot of work to do when we're building those olive groves, but the government has no right. Has the government watered those olive groves with its mouth, and now it's trying to destroy the olive groves? (Applause from the ranks of CHP) Look, valued government officials, you can't put your hands on tourism, you've finished tourism, there's no tourism in the Aegean, there's no tourism in the coastal areas; now you'll finish the olive groves, you'll tie the citizens' hands and feet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (CHEERING) You didn't plant those olive groves, those olive groves are a citizen's olive grove, no one's sorry. Do what you have to do with reason. I swear to God, you're lost right now. They're trying to seize the entire country's legacy. Those olive groves are an inheritance, my friends, so please don't touch the olive groves. Let the hand of the hand be broken. I swear to God, the hand of your hand is broken. (CHEERING) No, that's not true. We want to bequeath olive groves to our children. So don't touch our shores, our olive groves. On another subject, I filed a request six or seven months ago regarding the housing issue of Roma citizens in Urla. Look, there's the Fund Committee on the formation and mission of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and they approve the budgetary decision of TOKI. But the Fund Board, which needs to be collected every month, does not come together. I'm speaking to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, when is this Fund Committee meeting? Look, Roman citizens in Urla, their homes are falling apart, so please gather this fund board. Also, there's a Roman Project called IROMA, created with 45 trillion dollars in funding from the European Union, which ends in November. Two years are almost over, what did you guys do? What did you do with 45 trillion novels? You didn't do anything. It says here, month after month, day after day, which one did you do, come and explain it here. You spent the money in the conference halls. Minister of Family and Social Policy, you're not interested in Roma at all. Every two months, you switch managers, you change bureaucrats every three months, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy doesn't work, you do business on not working. Look, you published the strategy document last year, what happened? For God's sake, I'm reading the activities now, see what you've done, I'm reading now: you were going to set up a monitoring and evaluation board, did you set it up? When? Last year, it was written on June 21st, according to the strategy document. Where? You didn't. On December 21, 2016, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, did Roma work on the population registration issue? He didn't. I'm reading again: In the first half of 2017, you were going to start a study on child labor in the Roma neighborhoods, did you do it? You didn't. You were going to study education again, did you? You didn't. Have you done the study on the employment problem of these Roma, which should begin on March 21st? You didn't. Then why did you publish this strategy document, why did you guys publish it? Look, don't promise anything you can't do. It's not a strategy plan, it's a follow-up. You don't have a budget, so don't fool the Roma. There's 45 trillion dollars from the European Union, and he's out of time, and there's nothing there. What's it gonna be? Don't fool us, my friends. Don't fool us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I said the Minister of Family and Social Policy doesn't work. Look, I'm going to read something, for God's sake, this is the 2009 data from TÜİK. Between 2009 and 2013, children's drug addiction increased by 657.7 percent. What's the family department doing? They're kids 11 years old and under. I'm saying the family department doesn't work, and look, he's not fighting drugs. Sir, thank you for listening to me, my respect, my love. Thank you for listening to me. Let's hope it's taken care of as soon as possible. Mr. President, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0003par0026	Mr. Purçu, we thank you, and we salute all of our Roman citizens here in person. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Salih Fırat, who wants to talk about investments in Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from 2002 to 16 on investment activities in Adıyaman. I salute the Grand Assembly. There has been a strong growth process throughout Turkey in 14 years of EC PARTY rule. With every aspect of our country's growing investments going on day by day, the AK PARTI is well-befittingly aimed at a fair development move at the country's level, thank God, as we continue to work on this goal during our rule. Precious lawmakers, according to Adıyaman Governorate data, according to the investment graph of Adıyaman province, the year we came to power, the public investment of 10 million Turkish liras a year was made, while, in the process, about 40 times higher, 413 million investments were invested. Adıyaman was sponsored by 390 projects in 14 years, and nearly $11 billion was invested, according to figures by the Ministry of Economy during the EC PARTI administration. 13.261 people were employed in these investments. In the field of education, only in our province, in the last 14 years, $543 million was earmarked, and between 1923 and 2002, Adıyaman was a total of 3,388, while during the AK PARTI rule 2,581 classrooms, 4,774 student-capacity pensions, 10 workshops, 4 sports halls were opened. There are also 449 classrooms, 710 student-access pensions, 220-bed practice hotels, 2 workshops and 2 gyms. In Adıyaman, in the last 14 years, a development has been shown in the field of health care, parallel to Turkey, and 18 projects have been implemented in various health areas in our province. The hospital bed capacity, which was 545 in 2003, has now been increased to 1,289. In 2003, Adıyaman served three ambulances in Adıyaman, serving 50 ambulances in 2016. In 2003, 1,921 medical staff were employed, and by 2016, the number increased to 6.595. Central Oral Dental Health Centre is a part of the new Samsat State Hospital and Staff Lojman's Hospital, Tut County State Hospital and Staff Lojman Hospital, 75-bed Lake Chief State Hospital, 30-bed Gerger State Hospital and Lojman Hospital, 150-bed Kahta State Hospital, 10-bed Kahta Wanda State Hospital and Lojman Hospital. In culture and tourism, Adıyaman was made the main investments between 2003-2016: the Kommagene Mountain Protection and Development Programme, the Salt Inn Restoration job, the Perre Antiquating Mountain Road, the Kahta Cultural Centre, the Nemrut Mountain Environment and Development, the construction of the new castle first and second phases in Kahta, and the site of the service house of Mount Nemrut and the old Besni. The investments made by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will be listed as: Children's Homes Site, Children's Support Center, Adıyaman Social Services Centre, Kahta Social Services Centre, Besni Social Services Centre, Lakehead Social Services Centre, Violence Protection and Observation Centre, Women's Hospital, Children's Homes and Coordination Center. In the forest and water business between 2003-2017, in the last 14 years, Adıyaman was provided with 33 million cubic metres of drinking water annually in Adıyaman, Adıyaman city centre and Çelikhan district. A dam and a pond were built. We served our farmers by watering 111,220 acres. Thirty-six creeks have been reformed. On its roads, Adıyaman was divided at -- you know -- only 23km in 2002, and it was divided at about 10km today and divided at 2.217km. The service, for example, was built in Adıyaman, Turkey's third largest suspension bridge, you know the Nissibi Bridge, our route to the east to the Mediterranean, and to the south. On this occasion, I salute all the watchers and you lawmakers. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan, who wants to talk about Hakkari's problems. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Our Co-Chairs who have been imprisoned for two hundred and seventeen days are Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, DBP Co-Chair Mr. Sebahat Tucson; Deputy Chairs İdris Baluken, Çağlar Demirel; MP Selma Irmak, Abdullah Zeydan, Ferhat Encu, Besime Konca, Burcu Çelik; Party spokesman Ayhan Bilgen; Van Metropolitan Co-Chair Mr. Bekir Kaya; Mayors of our municipality, executives. Dear friends, not only are you prisoners, but society is being held hostage today. There's no one who's happy and peaceful who's destroyed the democratic area today. Society is so polarized, everyone's locked up in their own neighborhood. As if all this was not enough, new areas are being attacked. The cities that were destroyed and destroyed at the beginning of them do not seem enough for the AKP. This time, they bring cities ahead of the country's real agenda by carrying their historical artifacts, by lowering their status. The attempt to lower the status of Hakkari and Şırnak provinces, which they had brought up before, has been re-opened. Without concealing his hatred for Hakari, who made this city a city? We can easily tell Mr. AKP President and the President that Hakkari is the city's seven thousand-year history. Until the 6th century B.C.E., Hakkari entered the reign of Urardus, then the Meds, Persians, Alexander the Great, Sasanis, Muslims, Arabs, Byzantines, Seljucans, Ilhans, Karakoyans, Akkoyuns, and Safevis, during the period of Sultan Süleyman, in 1536. Hakkari, who remained under Ottoman rule until 1847, was in an autonomous status. Hakkari is ruled by his gentlemen. In 1924, Hakkari, who had the province's status with the Republic period, has been on his way as a province for 90 years. Of course, we know the cause of this unconscionable attack on Hakkari's history and culture. How many of our provinces in Turkey have met such great civilizations, experienced culture blending, continued their historical mission? So Hakkari became a city not twenty years ago, but seven thousand years ago. Today, those who act with the understanding of TOKI may not understand it, but let me share with you a few of the scholars of Hakkari, who were raised by Hakkari, the famous advisor and commander of Salahaddin Ayyub al-Hakkari, seven volumes of the Islamic history writer Abdurrahman Al-Hakkari and others, Ahmadi Hani, Feqiye Teyran, Mela Huseyne Bateyi, Sheikh Ubedullah, just a few. Even today, even when you oppose them, the name of the Hakari is mentioned in Jerusalem, and Hakkari maintains his identity. Today is not the day to leave historic cities and turn them into ruins. Historical cities must be dominated. No Hakarilı is opposed to the province. Let it be known that the city of Hikova is the province and that Hakkari must remain the province; the same is the case with Şırnak, Cizre. All the towns that have been burned and destroyed today should actually be taken to county status and built quickly according to their originality. There's no point in breaking the existing order. All political parties have their words for Hakkari and Şırnak, today is the day of the fulfillment of these promises. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0007par0059	Complete, please, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0006par0060	Hakkari won't give in to persecution, I'd like to tell that to the AKP in particular. In the latest April 16th constitutional referendum, he made it clear. Therefore, our cities should not be approached by the avenging understanding of the 1930s. If what was done that day had kept it, it wouldn't have to be today. Therefore, it will be of no use to insist on doing so. The people's honor, honor, and future must not be tampered with. You are not fit to live in the city. The understanding will bring great breakings with it. Today it's not just downtown, it's population wallets. A thousand years old name, Haqkari, whose name is never connected to Hakkari, will not save you from that shame, or the other name of Hakkari. Once again, I want to make it clear that Hakkari is to remain a province, and that Yüksekova must continue its journey as a province. I pay my respects to all of you for listening to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan. Now, I told the lawmakers who entered the system that I would make a one-minute commitment to 15 MPs according to the Interior Charter 60, but before that, I would make a promise to Mr. Yeneroglu. Mr. Yeneroglu, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. President, my esteemed representatives, I salute the High Council. Yesterday, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu stated that I targeted him on social media, that I specifically targeted him because of an article he didn't mean, didn't say and didn't share. I'd like to make a brief statement on this matter. Mr. Godkulu made a statement in the magazine Spiegel of Germany. I would also like to read this statement -- which is in front of me -- that is why the opposition politicians from Turkey are calling on Europe to take harsher steps against Ankara. For example, Social Democrat MP Sezgin Tanrıkulu says that if the economic investments from Europe were to be cut off, Erdogan would feel that his actions would be a response, and that he would be able to clean himself up, and that Erdoğan would not understand any other language. He says that I shared it on social media, and that if Mr. Godkulu did not share what was expressed in German, then he would have to express it to the people, otherwise he would have to apologize to them.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0010par0074	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0009par0075	...because this statement specifically meant that our nation would give up on the government in the face of economic sanctions...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0011par0076	He's not saying he doesn't want to. We know more or less German, there's no such thing, there's no demand.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0009par0077	I have stated that this will not suit an MP or Republican People's Party, which is why he should apologize to our nation and to our President. That's what I'm looking forward to. Beyond that, I'm not part of the polemics, and it's not my style. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you. Mr. Balbay, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have risen to the Turkish Super League after 14 years in Göztepe. The success of Göztepe is truly the success of a great collaboration, self - sacrifice, and team play. There is no Minister here, but I am stressing that Izmir's need to address the status issue as well as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as the government's importance to the status issue of Izmir Municipality. Although İzmir Metropolitan Mayor Aziz Kocayaka has given away the most valuable land for the status of Göztepede for free, the Ministry has not yet made any transactions. I urge you to solve Ýzmir's status problem. Secondly, Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the mathematician Tales, who found the Tales Theorem in mathematics, is known as Tales, the Aegean. They ask Tales, "What do you owe your science and your success?" They answer, "Two thousand and five hundred years ago: to your Zeytinia." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I urge you not to eat olives and olive oil, and I wish that this commission of yours would never come again.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0014par0088	Thank you. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Hatay Province is a city of agriculture and industry, but also a university city. Hatay, with his multilingual and cultured structure, has begun to come from many parts of Turkey to the top of the provinces that our young people prefer for university education. The need for healthy, comfortable and economic housing, which continues to be one of the main problems of university youth, has not yet been resolved for Hatay. According to the Credit and Housing Institution investment programme, when will the project's work be possible for Hatay central and Reyhan student dorms, where Alexander's student dorms, one in progress and the other in the project phase, will be able to accept students? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0016par0095	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0017par0097	Mr. President, yesterday, the military agreement with Qatar, which has yet to be discussed with the General Assembly, has been approved despite our opposition. We can't account for the consequences of this crisis following Trump's arms deal with Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is building its own game against Iran, while Iran, on the other hand, is playing its own. The Gulf has distributed its alliance wisely, and its influence is expanding. Iran and Saudi Arabia are doing their national interests. And where are we? We're not actually on any side. We're in a dangerous state of tension with global and regional parties. You've put our country through a dangerous strain, a regional crisis, that could be devastating. I'm warning you all once again, this is not a departure, but a return to the republic's balanced and neutral foreign policy immediately. It's vital to everyone's survival. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0016par0099	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. President, according to media reports, the European Union has decided to monitor the spending of financial aid within the framework of accession talks with Turkey. According to reports, the EU has transferred 2.19 billion euros to Turkey since 2007. Turkey is the country with the most financial aid from the EU. The EU has never implemented such an application of Turkey. This application by the EU Court also exposed distrust of Turkey. In this case, in terms of our country's honor, it is the transparent explanation of the pen by the government of where the EU Court is being expended without having to examine it. Mr. Minister of the EU, where has 2.19 billion euros from the EU been spent? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0019par0104	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. The University of Uludağ put ads in some newspapers yesterday for hiring technical staff, but we've learned that these ads are just for show. The names of the people who were to be taken have been named by the single rectory, and they've been declared only for the period to be fulfilled. We have a list of these people, completely elected by the ruling party, and a clear indication of the situation in Turkey where partisanism has come. Is there no chance that a person who is not from the AKP will live in this country? Isn't it possible that even though he's very successful, people who have the right to work in this business have the right to enter here? He tells the university administration that if he doesn't give up his attitude, we'll follow up on the subject, we'll make the necessary initiatives, and we'll follow up on the issue to a fair conclusion.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0021par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the political power has promised the police in the last three elections that the additional indicators will be raised to 3,600, and so is our Minister. You made that promise, but you didn't make an additional demonstration of the police at 3600, and the police are urging you to keep it. So you've made 3600 additional indicators of soldiers in the same household doing this job, why don't you make the police's 3600? At the same time, the police work conditions are very bad. The 18th article of our Constitution states that Angaria is prohibited. Because of the ban on labor, these poor working conditions of the police -- even though they are not paid for the work -- violate their family order, their family happiness. According to the 41st and sequel of our constitution, the protection of the family is one of the main duties of the state. In this regard, I invite the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Family to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0022par0115	Mr. Tarhan instead of Mr. Hurriyet...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The road work that has been going on for months has still not been completed. During the day, there are major problems in traffic because of the failure to complete work in Gebze (Gebze) over 1 million people. Our citizens suffer for hours of traffic because of their connections to Gebze-Caararova-Darica, which has become a ball of problems. When will road and bridge work be completed?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0022par0119	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of Justice: part of the Harp School students, who were among the biggest victims in the July 15 coup attempt, are still under arrest. The families of these students and privates who have been freed for 11 months have also been devastated. You're taking the student and putting him in jail, Mr. Secretary, not the person responsible for the coup, not the person who instructed the student. You've filed the indictment of what you wanted and released them in a few days, but why have these young people been arrested for 11 months? I'm talking about the speed of indictment last month in the charge of insulting Ataturk. This is what we want, that's enough! Prepare the indictments immediately, see their courts, leave these young people and their families alone. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0025par0125	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0026par0127	You decided yesterday to send troops to Qatar in Parliament, under the orders of the AKP's president, whose son never went to the army, whose other son stepped in and served for three days. Actually, the reason is obvious, the reason is completely emotional. Now, I'd like to ask those who raise their hands here, the voters: Which one of you has a long-term son who's served without pull?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0027par0129	I did it, I did it, I did it.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0026par0130	Which one of you will go to Qatar first? Would you give the consent you gave yesterday for your own children? Would you do that to your own children? You're sending Mehmetchik to Qatar to die so your children can have their pockets filled. How many barrels of oil do you think the lives of the people's children are worth?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0028par0131	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0029par0133	Almost every day in the media, we see young people who use bonzai all over Turkey, especially Istanbul, passed out on the streets, streets, parks. In particular, young people between the ages of 10 and 18, the use of bonsai has been described as having a terrible explosion, while mortality rates have increased rapidly. Why does the AKP government ignore the screaming for help from all over Turkey, the cries of parents, and why do they ignore our young people who have passed out in the streets? There's no way to understand this insensitivity. Last year, I called for an urgent agenda on drugs and substance abuse, a year passed. In the middle of the night, we expect him to show the same interest for our drug-drug youth who changed the Constitution to his advantage, and with the support of all parties, the matter will be immediately brought to Parliament's agenda.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0028par0135	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0030par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. The hunger limit is up to 2,000 liras. The minimum wage is 1,400 lira in an environment where the poverty limit of a family of four exceeds 5,000 liras. Employees, pensioners, widows, orphans, all people have trouble making ends meet. Even in Ramadan, the cost of fasting has increased by 11 per cent compared to the previous year. The staff problem of subcontractors, seasonal workers, temp workers has not been solved. All workers seem to be in great economic distress. AKP governments have made poorer, richer, richer, richer. All working people must receive bonuses at religious holidays. As the Republican People's Party, we promised to give two bonuses in our power at the holidays, and we will, but I would also like to call upon the government, taking into account the victims: The CHP's proposal must be implemented and given to the workers a holiday bonus on this festival. There is more time, and the workers who are crushed by inflation must be allowed to breathe. I'm calling upon the government to remember the workers and do a good deed in the holy month of Ramadan. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0031par0140	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0032par0142	Mr. President, the closed-down company data from April 2017, announced by the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey, has revealed the latest state of the country's economy. The data revealed that the number of closing companies increased by 18.64 per cent compared to April 2016. In our province of Adana, there are no new companies and factories that have been opened, especially in the centre of the market, in the organised industrial region, in industrial sites. In our town, the number of factories is increasing, whether for rent or for sale. In Adana, there is also an increase in unemployment due to the closing of factories, the bankruptcy of companies, and the intensity of asylum seekers. The government must take urgent measures across Turkey and Adana to ensure that companies do not close, closing factories are replaced, replaced by new ones, and prevent unemployment.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0031par0144	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0033par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to stop the Women's Murders platform. The May 2017 Report has been released to the public. In the first five months of 2016, women's murders were 137, while 173 women were killed in five months this year. Among other things, the way it works is that more violent murders, torture, and the death of their children in front of them, or with their children, and more and more suspicious deaths. However, the report stressed that news has been reported to the press as women's murders have increased. As a result of the pressure on media and media organizations, instead of solving the problems of this government -- which in turn can't be solved -- the society has no choice but to shut down, hide, avoid conversation, and to reject numerous research proposals on the subject, as will be today.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0031par0148	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0034par0150	Hatay, one of the most unique regions of our country with its natural beauty, has been facing the disaster of environmental pollution in recent years. The quarrys that surround our four sides are still active and are being poisoned by the thermal power plants that are wanted to be built every day, while the greatest environmental massacres in history are being made with our rebel river, which is abandoned and unable to escape the channel view. When we look at the levels of particle matter in the air that have a negative impact on human health, the current limit in the European Union is at the maximum of 50 micrograms per day, while Alexander's Bay reaches 130 micrograms in Turkey's most important industrial regions, including Adana, Mersin, Hatay, and 16 licensed thermal plants. While agricultural land is contaminated with heavy metals such as lead, mercury, cadmium, toxic chemicals such as arsenic and paint, air pollution from thermal plants found in the area, respiratory, heart attack, stroke, lung...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0035par0155	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0036par0157	Mr. President, the ease of this year's TEOG questions has been noted. In that case, the TEOG exams were set with a historic record of 17,000, 16,000, 22%. There's no logical explanation for why you can't cheat parents and reduce the quality of questions to create an artificial success in education and get tens of thousands of students to the degree and put most of them in schools they want. We're not getting anywhere by fooling ourselves. However, the fact of Turkey's education, which has been away from positive science in recent years, is, unfortunately, a painting that has fallen to the 50th place in 72 countries on the PISA test. When that is the case, isn't it unthinkable to review our education? I'm calling on the Minister of National Education. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0037par0162	And finally, Mr. Ertan...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0038par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The trustees, who have been legally appointed to 86 municipalities of the DBP elected by the people's will, continue to save by hostile attitudes, rather than by civil servants, as well as by supporters and AKP mayors. We have seen the latest example of the recent dismissal of 34 workers by Van Metropolitan City Mayors, who recently laid off hundreds of municipal employees, who took free use of municipal buses one day a week, which ended with the statement that our municipalities had no public use for such activities as day care, shelters, health and culture centres, libraries, and even unnecessary spending. Unlike others, there are also two deaf and speech-impaired employees and one employee who are treated for cancer. My question to you is, why was the trustee appointed by your government disturbed by a disabled employee and a cancer-treated employee? Is it true that the people who were on the lists of AKP mayors replaced the people who were brought out? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0039par0167	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0040par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. June 10, 2008 is the anniversary of the death of Genghis Aytmatov, a major cultural bridge between the world's greatest literary and Turkish-speaking communities, whose works have been placed in the hearts of many countries around the world. He was a very special name for the Turkish culture world, a real cultural envoy. A knowledge that would unite the Turkish world on a roof. With its most beautiful use of Turkish language, it has contributed to today's readers, and its works have contributed to the wealth of the cultural heritage of the Turkish noblemen. I ask His Holiness for His mercy. Today, at the same time, we lost an important scientist worldwide. The founder of Ufuk University, Mr. Ridvan Aegean, who led the world's number-one orthopedists and even the founding of the orthopedic podium in Turkey, has taken notice of the future. I wish him mercy, and my condolences to his relatives, his family, the community of the Ufuk University. Mr. President, in the time of the AKP governments, we all know that there have been significant steps in terms of land roads, significant breakthroughs have been made, but Samsun hasn't been able to take advantage of it enough. I'd like to bring up two in particular, between this Ayvacik-Tashova-Erbaa road and the Basin-Vezirköpru road. This Ayvacık-Tashova-Erbaa road was tendered ten years ago, but so far, there's been some land work, nothing beyond that. Here, perhaps a misfortune was given to the company of the son of a local regional manager who retired from the District Department of Highways about ten years ago. I don't know how it happened. But since the contractor who received this tender couldn't pay the contractor enough, no subcontractors have ever worked there...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0041par0176	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0040par0177	None of them had ever done a job there, and they left the sites all the time. I went there myself, I saw it. I mean, ten years... and it's been promised there. In 2009, those trucks will pass through here a year later. We see there that no transactions have been done, even though the people of the region were promised. Again, the Basin-Vazir bridge is also a very important road. I talked to the truckers the other day. We pass through here all the time, like this, bringing blessings. They say. Despite the fact that there is a very risky, slippery road and a very busy road, and it will be done for many years, there has been no action done in any way. Again, the Hapan Strait Group Road, which connects the fifteen villages in Ayvacık, I went there, and I saw it myself. It's the same as it was 30 years ago, Mr. President. I mean, we did the road and all that, but I think it's a little bit of a balanced distribution in the country. Thirty years ago today, there's that road, and people are very victimized. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0042par0182	Let's finish it, sir. Let's wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0040par0184	People are very victimized. We'd like the highways to take a look around, take a look around. I'll tell you this: we're very comfortable meeting with the ministers, there's no problem, but there's a serious problem with our meeting with the bureaucrats. I called the CEO of the highway about a month ago about these matters. He was going to give me information. There hasn't been any information for a month. And I'd like to present this to the information of the Speakership. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0042par0186	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0043par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. As we know, the hunger strike carried out by academic Nuria Gülmen and Semih Özakça, who were unjustly expelled from their jobs and expressed their democratic response to the situation, has entered its 92nd day. The hunger strike is unfair and unlawfully sent to Sincan Prison, and the Ankara Medical Chamber delegation, which monitors their health conditions before being arrested, is unfortunately not allowed to control them in prison. Ankara Medical Chamber President Vedat Bulut tells the Ministry of Justice that all their applications on this matter have been rejected. We should point out that it is unacceptable for the rights of health control of these two young people, who have reached critical thresholds, to be deprived of the right to choose a physician that every human being has. In this regard, I repeat my call to the Ministry of Justice once again at the point of providing necessary permits for legal, human and conscientious contexts on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0044par0192	Thank you. Mr. Altay, come in, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0045par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. The model name of our medical world, we learned with great regret that we lost Professor Dr. Ridvan Aegean, a respected scientist in Turkey and in the world, who had published more than 100 books, thousands of articles, especially thousands of students, who had brought medical students to our country. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, the Turkish Grand National Assembly Group, and on behalf of our beloved nation, I ask for God's mercy. I ask patience for this nation, for the death of Professor Ridvan Aegean, who has done great service to this country, for his family, for his loved ones, for his relatives, and especially for the thousands of students he has raised. Mr. President, the Bill of Law, number 485, identified with olives and olive groves in public. As of Tuesday (June 6th), the 90-point bill came to the General Assembly's agenda, starting negotiations. As the opposition party, as the main opposition party, we have identified the country and the nation's interests in the bill, and the very positive materials, as we have identified, there are also a large number of substances that are contrary to country and nation's interests, particularly the plundering of the olive groves, and our friends who have spoken on behalf of the Republican People's Party have said several times. Today, with great pleasure, we -- along with other opposition parties, of course -- have learned that the government has withdrawn the bill to the commission due to our reflexes and reflexes towards the public bill.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0046par0199	Let's wrap it up. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0045par0201	As the main opposition party, I would like to say that we are very pleased. On this occasion, I would like to reiterate the call and offer to the majority party and to the government: There are a number of other articles that we do not see fit for public and national interests, particularly the 2nd article of the bill, and we are ready to demonstrate a genuine compromise, a constructive view of opposition. Otherwise, politics is not a matter of stubbornness, and if so, our House will also make a large, long, unnecessary shift. I salute the General Assembly with confidence that the government will take positive steps to make the bill reasonable, considering public sensitivity and the reflexes of opposition parties.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0047par0204	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0048par0207	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've made arrangements and made arrangements on all issues involving Turkey's issues. Again, we think there is an arrangement for this production incentive package that will satisfy Turkey's many needs. There's also a substance here about olive groves. Control mechanisms were set up, Turkey needed areas where Turkey's needs were priority, through a board, with its decisions, and then with the Ministry's approval to go to work. But despite the fact that there are many points here that we disagree with, the matter will be renegotiated, and hopefully the way society needs, the way our country needs it. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0047par0209	Thank you. That brings us to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary research motion that I shall read in the third place is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read, but the entire text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the reasons for the increase in police, military and prosecutor's crimes committed by fraud on the phone, we respectfully offer and offer the need for the opening of the Constitution's 98th, Internal Charter 104th and 105th investigation, in order to prevent effective and continuous measures on the issue. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 6) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] Recently, the record increase in fraud has shown the need for new measures to be taken. We've reached the age of technology, but now the con artists are using technology to fool the citizens. Through social media and telephone fraud has become the new favorite of con artists. Frauds are trying to get access to the passwords of their social media accounts and provide money and other interests by introducing themselves as owners of the account. There's a loophole in the law. It is the responsibility of the owner of the social media account and the sanction for it to be processed via the Internet, and since it is not organised, frauds act more freely. In cases of phone fraud, con artists are calling themselves police officials or prosecutors, demanding money from the victim, saying the victim's phone number was used by terrorist organizations. These criminal networks that identify themselves as public officials are scamming famous doctors, professors, even senior law enforcement officials. It's obvious there's weakness in this. News has been released that there have been 11.932 cases of fraud in 2014. In particular, communication fraud through telephone or Internet has increased despite all warnings and official notifications. The Central Statistical Association (CBE) reported that 450,000 people were defrauded via the Internet in 2013. The stories of the fraud of the banks, however, are a large majority. The theft of the credit card and Internet banking information added money to the victims and to the account of a con artist whom he knew in a different identity. Although the method of fast-exploded fraud in certain periods has long since disappeared with the awareness of citizens, new forms of fraud have emerged without a sound. After receiving some information about the people they target, con artists manage to receive their money through intimidation or opportunity. According to data from 2013-2014, several elderly and retired victims lost money to people they thought were prosecutors and police on the phone. Following the announcement that new regulations would be issued in the consumer rights protection law, it was not possible to escape frauds, such as the bank commission, credit card dues, account operating fees, to get payments back. Frauds who know how to promote online shopping can achieve their goal by selling false products with their flashy websites. Once again, the summer-time holiday site scam was one of them, and those who paid for the holiday in advance were surprised when they wanted to get a reservation confirmation. A famous professor has also been the victim of phone frauds. Suspects who identified themselves as police and prosecutors have made the professor leave $50,000 and $10,000 from the bank in two separate parks. Following the courier who came to collect the money, after a technical follow-up in Şanlıurfa and Adana, the police have detained two suspects. Phone cheaters who have cheated thousands of people in recent years have also defrauded 60-year-old choir performers. In the past few months, the con artists who called the choir artist on the home phone have identified themselves as police and told the terrorist organization that their identity had been sold and demanded money. The choir singer lost $862,500 to the con artists. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened on the phone to investigate the reasons for the increase in fraud crimes committed by crooks by introducing themselves as police, soldiers, prosecutors and preventing the victims. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Unfortunately, the collapse caused by the wrong policies in agriculture continues to deepen. Food prices in the world have dropped to the lowest level in the last eight years as of January 2016, while prices in our country have continued to rise. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Food Prices Index, which follows monthly changes in prices of grains, fatty seeds, dairy products, meat and sugar, dropped to an average level of 150.4 points in January, which corresponded to two per cent of the previous month. So the annual decline in global food prices was 16 per cent as of January. Despite this global price drop, our country's January food price increased by 11.7 per cent compared to the same month of the previous year, while some products increased by 40 per cent. According to the results of household budget spending in our country, an average of 19.7 per cent of expenditures are spending food and drink. According to the lowest-income 20 per cent, 28.8% of household expenses are food and drink. That's why high prices in food are hitting the poorest. Despite the fact that our country has significant potential in agriculture, right and lasting policies to this day have not been systematically implemented. Our country's problems in agriculture have become unresolved within the existing structure. Therefore, instead of short-term agricultural solutions, the implementation of serious reforms has become a necessity. In order for our people to consume agricultural products at appropriate prices, for healthy generations to grow, producers to be literally supported, and then prices to be permanently reduced to normal levels. If the increase in food prices is required to be prevented, the problems in agriculture must be resolved. For this, agricultural policy must be dealt with in every way. The country's rich agricultural potential needs radical changes in agricultural policy to promote productivity and to ensure stability in food prices, to earn the producer's money, to consume food at appropriate prices. With respect to the establishment of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the situation and problems in the agricultural sector in a healthy way, then to establish policies that will be implemented for short, medium, and long term, and to implement the results firmly. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[40s.]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 8) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 11) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Denizli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the past four months, it has been determined that the Nepalian hijab disease (Asya-1 virus or Nepali chap), which was first detected in the province of Van in September 2015, has spread rapidly, and animal activity throughout the country has reached a complete halt. The animal industry in our country is once again in straits because of the shock sickness. The fact that animal markets are closed from east to west, north to south, across the country, and restricted animal movements requires immediate measures. In this case, 1) The efficiency of measures taken in and out of our country's borders, the negativity of illegal animal entrances, 2) The first reason why sufficient measures could not be taken in September 2015 to prevent the outbreak of the spate that was detected in our province of Van from spreading across the country, 3) Economic losses due to the disorder and economic costs caused by the fight against slap disease, 4) Because of the spread of the hijab disease, the risks of the animal slaughter in the treatment process will take place in human health, 5) The measures necessary for preventing loss in the animal industry due to the disease of the slap. On the issues listed above, I would like to ask that Parliament be opened under Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105 of the Constitution. 10/2/2015 With all due respect. [[Samsun]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt (Konya [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Denizli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] In the past four months, it has been determined that the Nepalian hijab disease (Asya-1 virus or Nepali chap), which was first detected in the province of Van in September 2015, has spread rapidly, and animal activity throughout the country has reached a complete halt. The animal industry in our country is once again in straits because of the shock sickness. Animal markets are known to be closed from east to west, north to south, all over the country, and animal movements have been stopped. Because of the disease, animal deaths and littering have suffered major losses. It is believed that the clap disease was especially caused by animal and animal products that were smuggled into our country from abroad. In order to prevent the loss of those who feed a large loss due to the hapless disease, to ensure that consumers consume meat at healthy, affordable prices, and to eliminate the disease entirely of the Constitution's 98th Article, including early warning methods, I propose that Parliament be opened on the basis of Articles 104, 105, and Article 105. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group now has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0049par0406	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our proposal.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit01spe0047par0407	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0047par0001	I'm opening the Second Session of Turkey's 100th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The President of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission has a statement issued according to Article 88 of the Interior Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the provisions of Article 88 of the Civil Code, I would like to request that the amendments of Article 2 of the Civil Code be restored to our Commission and resume negotiations on the General Assembly. Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Article 2 has been returned to the Commission in accordance with the statement read. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday 8/6/2017, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of laws number 391, 394, 345, 393, 377, and 377 are included in the Commission's Commission's Commission's Charter of Laws and Proposals. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports, with the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission, for the purpose of the Development of Industry and Supporting Productions. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Co-operation Agreement between the State of Palestine and Education and Higher Education. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 415 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that it be passed on to its Articles? All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND THE REVOLUTION OF THE FILITH AND THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTACTION OF AGREATION AND AGREEMENT OF MY HIGH SCHOOL MADDE 1- (1) was approved on February 1, 2016 in Ankara. The agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian State was approved. The first word on the 1st article is for members of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0050par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Bill 415. I salute your high council. Yes, as a medic, I'd like to start my words with the human body. As it is known, it is the backbone that sustains man physically. A man can't stand if his spine is damaged. Psychologically, it's trust that keeps people going. When trust is lost, it's hard for people to live. Society is just like people. When societies lose confidence in power, in those who rule them, in that society, in that country, collapses, and they go to great trouble because they don't feel safe. What is the state of the AKP's state in 15 years, and what is the state's confidence in the state? Is there trust in judgment? Polls say 97 percent of the people don't trust the judiciary right now, and probably 3 percent don't understand what they're asking, so they say, "I trust." Trusted in training? For two weeks -- we've been having the same experience in my constituency, Burma -- the children don't go to school, the teachers don't come, the children come in the morning, and they are sent back from there. In health? There was a revolution in health, but we see that there used to be a line at the hospital, and now there's a line at the phone in the line of appointments, and there's still suffering. I'll tell you which one. Unfortunately, our yurtstones' confidence in the government has diminished. And as if that wasn't enough, there was a bill about olives and olive groves. But we've just received a breaking news report that he's been transferred to the Commission, the olive grove issue, and we find that to be a positive. In spite of the public, we thank you for the fact that the adoption of a law does not allow the destruction of one of the people's most important values. (CHEERING) Yes, it's Ramadan, and we open our fasts with olives. Olives are an important value to us in the Quran. I hope that this mistake will be abandoned after the commission has been withdrawn and our standing community, our people, will be relieved. What about the state of the country in other matters? Hundreds of journalists, intellectuals, writers in jail. We're a country at the end of the world on this. Hundreds of people, civil servants, family, were devastated, imprisoned, unable to make their voices heard and reached out to us. Of course, since the ruling lawmakers are afraid of being charged with it, most of them are reaching out to us because they're not answering the phone, and we're doing all we can to help, but this time the ruling party starts calling us GERPs. We've always been there for the underdog, the oppressed, and we'll always be there for you from now on. On the other hand, let's look at the economy. Look, the economy has been dying for a long time, the data is bad. Where it comes from, with money unknown to its source, the dollar, the euro is fixed, the expected big economic crisis is being pushed out. The unemployment rate has been announced, one out of four young people are unemployed, and the actual number is much higher, but 12.6% of the state's figure is 12.6%. University unemployment rate is 25 per cent. The kids are finishing college with great hope, but since they can't get a job, they're still knocking on our phones, knocking on our doors, looking for a job as hope. In our country, where the minimum wage is 1,400 lira, the hunger limit is $1.518, the poverty limit is $4.995, but unfortunately, the government is taking matters into its own hands rather than trying. Now, about foreign policy. Our position in foreign policy is clear. What Ataturk said many years ago, he had three important advices that he had to see these days and that he had to stand in front of us as a guide, he says: "One: Don't get involved in the Arab world. Two: Don't provoke Russia. Three: do not appear behind imperial states. What did we do? Stop interfering in the Arab world, we dived like a mixer, like a soup. They said, let us be mediators. The states said: "No, let it be Kuwait." We were going to pray at Emevi Mosque on the first Friday in Syria, 100 Fridays passed, and Esed is still standing. There's the Iraqi policy. In a region where we're not supposed to get involved, where we're harmful, you continue to mix it up, unfortunately, as if it's a mixer. Let's go to Russia. He said, "Don't provoke Russia." What did we do? We crashed the plane. We're down $10 billion in the Antalya area alone last year. Stop stirring it up, and we left, and the Prime Minister said, "I dropped it." He said, "No, I dropped it." He said, "We raced, we entered an airplane crash race." Our conclusion is that tomatoes, tomatoes, 11 lira, and the embargo is still under way; tens, hundreds of hotels are for sale on our southern shores, in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean. Don't stand behind the imperialist states. There's no need to explain it anyway. What we didn't do was make an effort to get an appointment with an American and make a 20-minute call, and we're done. Our guide, however, was very simple, if we had continued a policy called peace in yurtta, peace in jihanda, today our country would not have been in a country this far behind, uncounted, unregistered in the world. In fact, considering yesterday's attack on the Iranian Parliament and the attack on Khomeini's tomb, our minds go back a hundred years. You know, when the assassination of the Prince of Austria-Hungarian Crown Prince in Bosnia and Herzegovina was considered an excuse for the First World War, I hope that something like this doesn't start in this Middle East, and it doesn't end in great chaos, which will involve our country. But, as we've read from history, those are the days that come back to us. In the Middle East, there is only one condition for Turkey to get out of this vortex as the wars of semantics and power of attorney leave: democracy, immediate return to law, and life with Western values to higher standards. Otherwise, we're going fast towards that horrible ending I just said. Of course, when they're spoken of, when reviews are made, there's always the famous word of the last days. If it hadn't been broken down by memory, it would have been very easy to identify the person responsible, we'd immediately have the upper mind, and the upper mind brought it here. But we see that we're not just in a process that can be explained with the upper mind. The game is so clear that it's supposed to be one of the duties of this Parliament, this Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to identify what's behind the game and who's behind it. And with the United States of America's desire to surround Iran behind all these thoughts, it's almost a place of fire, and it's hard to predict what might happen next. In the region, the home of the Muslim brothers Qatar, who had been expelled from the area and Egypt, and the consequences could be even scarier. Now, what Turkish foreign policy is supposed to do is to be neutral, not to fuel the fire here, but rather to create the kind of policies that will reduce the problems there, but I see that we've quickly made decisions without even discussing the subject with the dimensions, without even considering what might happen in the relevant institutions. As of time, I hope the Qatar Act, which passed through Congress yesterday, will not cause us much trouble in the future. Finally, he says that this Parliament should be more active, more functional, that it shouldn't be working with so many people at this time, that it should be the most crowded, that it should be more active in its role and in the power given to us by the nation, and I salute your grand delegation, and I say goodbye to all of you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0051par0059	Thank you. The second word for their group belongs to the Peoples' Democratic Party Group's Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0052par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Bill 415, and I salute you all. Of course, this international agreement is a co-operation agreement between Turkey and Palestine on education and higher education. In fact, the Palestinian people were victims of the Middle East in the 20th century, deprived of their rights, stripped of their right to determine their own future, and have been paying for years. On the basis of all the problems in the Middle East, the dictatorships in the Middle East, the antidemocratic systems, the chaos in which we live today, and the unhappiness of the Middle Eastern people, there are basically two fundamental facts -- one of them, a hundred years of Palestinian misery. The second important and chronic problem is also the Kurdish victim and persecution problem in the Middle East. These two people, unfortunately, in the Middle East, even though they are Muslims, are also judged by Muslim countries as orphans of the Islamic community and others. So all of the dictatorial systems in the Middle East are trying to sustain themselves through the indecision of these two problems. In other words, the liberation of Palestine means the liberation of the Kurds. Of course, the Palestinian issue has left us with particularly prominent zigzags during the AKP ruling period. The foreign policy for ownership of Palestine, which began with one minute, has resulted in the disregard of today's Marmara incident, the oblivion of the Palestinian issue, and the re-integration of ties with Israel, but the same wrong attitude in foreign policy resulted in bankruptcy in Syria, as well as in the same foreign policy religious understanding. When the Syrian issue began, all Turkey's foreign policy, the policy run by the AKP (AKP) in just three or five months, led to a complete stalemate in Syria, when a Sunni selefi power was established on the assumption that a power could come on the axis of the Ihvan ideology, the reality in Syria, the balances in Syria, the status of the peoples in Syria, the reality, freedom and democratic efforts were ignored, but the utopic foreign policy at which it was imagined led to a deadlock on Turkey's policy in Syria. Syria has been disabled in Turkey. Why is it off-line? Because when he built all of his accounts on selefis and cult-axis politics, the unaccounted, unaccounted reality in the field pushed him to the surface. This would be the natural result of the last two years of anti-Kurdish policy, both in and out of the country. But this wrong policy also led to the emergence of the July 15 coup dynamics in the country, the coup process. Look, there's been a coup commission recently. This Strike Commission was going to make a report, but the fact that the people who must testify are not wearing the Commission and the Assembly made it clear that the incident was intended to be covered up. With the obvious, the following questions no doubt come to mind: ▪ Why is this coup attempt to cover up? The AKP wants to cover the coup? Does he not want his political foot exposed to the coup? He raises questions like that. It's true to say yes, but it's not enough. Why isn't it enough? Because not only does the AKP not want this coup attempt to be revealed, but also, as a whole, all the status quo involved in the coup and capital forces in its co-operation with international capital do not want to be revealed. In fact, all aspects of the coup attempt are known to the public, except for the technical details, but what they want to be done is to deflect the truth, the known truth, and cover it up. So this is the fundamental fact that the political foot of the coup was not asked to be revealed. It's a big mistake to look at the coup attempt issue through only a contradiction in Erdoğan or the anti-Erdoğan hostility. In fact, the problem is the crisis of the imperial system, and the apparent political reflection of this crisis is the July 15 coup attempt. By himself, Fetullah Gulen was very angry, angry, and with that anger, let's make a coup. No doubt he made no decision. There's no doubt that all the power of the system, the total status quo, is behind this. This impact dynamic was activated by the United States, the EU, NATO, Turkey, the status quo forces, the collaborative capital and, more importantly, the total alliance of its political foot. The fact that he is not wanted to be discovered today, the fact that he is not wanted to be revealed, is also the common alliance of these forces. If the democratic alternative, which emerged with the June 7th elections, the other in Turkey, the Kurdish, the Kurdish, the oppressed, the working class, the workers' alliance on a broad front, and all of the status quo forces that allied themselves against the reality of becoming the People's Assembly for the first time, then the forces are in an alliance after the July 15th coup attempt to criminalize this front. Therefore, continuing coup trials will not follow a different process than the September 12 coup trial. Just as September 12 coupgers have been spread in time and, as a result, the trial process of the current July 15 coup attempt will not be revealed by spreading through time, just as September 12th. Therefore, all these reactionary, status quo forces, capital, international imperialism, because of their need for each other, the only thing they can do is to put the regime of the only man they can't perform under normal circumstances in front of the people of Turkey today. So, the only man whom Recep Tayyip Erdogan wanted to achieve in a long period of time wanted to execute his regime in one night with the coup of July 15th. Perhaps Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan didn't fall down, he stood still, but all the goals of the July 15 coup attempt, the system crisis, have been achieved today. So, today, with the state of emergency, the ordinances of the law, the one-man regime and the mandatory constitutional amendment, the global forces actually built the system they wanted in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we say that this Parliament must be freed from this process with a democratic alternative. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0053par0073	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0054par0077	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action on Bill 415. Before I begin, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. It actually started out as a bit of a hopeful day for us because we started out that for the development of olive groves, construction of plants, and construction of plants, these olive trees were withdrawn from the proposal for the destruction of our olive trees. This is a really promising, beautiful development. I wanted to share my concerns with you in the face of this bill, as the MP of Aydın and as a representative of the National Movement Party. It gives us hope, of course, that it's withdrawn, but it's also very beautiful, and I want to express our concerns, concerns, and expectations, with the intention of making sure that it doesn't come back to us in a different way. Dear lawmakers, these geothermal plants, you know, in Aydın, I've brought this up many times, and I'm afraid I didn't find any effort to take any precautions about it. For the opening of these geothermal plants -- as I have already stated -- there is no search for the CED report, and unfortunately we are faced with the same problem at the point where olive trees are cut down in order to build olive groves, to build plants. Mr. Yıldırım said: "Is it more important or is it more important than the facility? Of course, industry has value for our country, but you can also never deny the value of agriculture. The state of the Republic of Turkey has been satisfied with its own growth in agriculture for a period of time, and it is a self-made 70 countries, but unfortunately, recently, the policies that have been developed in recent years have also been known to be counterproductive. Olives are very important to us, especially on behalf of the Enlightenment, and the olives are important to us as both our precious and material resources, as well as our legacy. In 2016-2017, an assessment of which countries produced more olive oil, exports and imports in the world's oil market. Spain ranked 1.4 million to 1st; Italy at 474,000 tons is the 2nd place; Greece at 320 thousand tons is the third and, unfortunately, Turkey at 143,000 tons is the fourth. Dear lawmakers, we are a country in the world with 10 percent of olive trees, and if such a law is passed, we will go further back while we plan to get better and better. Look, the same report says that Turkey is expected to extract an estimated 177,000 tonnes of olive oil in 2017. If this law were passed, we would lose our olive groves, and that would be a very negative result for us. The olive law came to parliament for the 7th time and went back, just as it did with the others. Our greatest desire is that this never happens to us again. Because if there's a law like this, if there's less than 15 acres of olive trees, they're not olives, and if we look at the European Union again, we'll compare the situation, and we'll see that there's 2.5 olive trees per grain. Well, in other countries, olive trees are so valued, when olive trees are so protected, we need to think about why we've been sacrificing the olive trees that we've been protecting since the first period of the republic for the sake of building or power plant today. Because there are too many old trees in the Aegean region and in the Marmara region, and that only causes 8-10 trees to fall on each decarred tree. So if such a law had been passed, many olive groves would have suffered in Aydın, Balıkesir, Aegean, and Marmara. Dear lawmakers, it's blessed Ramazan month. How many verses of the Qur'an do olives pass through? I found them in seven verses, and the olives pass through seven. In fact, the Tin surah begins... by oath of the fig and the olive. A fruit so precious that it is a fruit that can be sworn upon. This should not be the law of such precious, sacred fruit, figs and olives. On the contrary, at the point of more protection of olive groves, support of olive growers, reconsideration of the premiums on olive oil, especially as deputy to the province of Aydın, and as the fig, it is our greatest hope that the fig will be shown the same sensitivity. I'd like to inform you again about this fig. I've mentioned geothermal facilities in the first place, and I've already said that, unfortunately, increasing geothermal plants in an uncontrollably fast, no restrictions at the point of opening wells, and once these facilities are opened again, being left out of control in terms of damage to the environment at the point of production, harming both the figs and olives of our Aydın. Because, unfortunately, the trees are being cut down again, and the ecosystem is also negatively affected. Figs produced in the Enlightenment are the best figs in the world, but figs are a very delicate fruit. Figs are found in places where the moisture of the environment is very special, and the vapors from geothermal plants have a significant impact on the climate of that region, the ecological system. This also leads to a certain decline in the production of figs. Once again, at the point where the fluids that come out of here are released into the wild, there are documents that are sometimes proven by our intellectuals who live there, and we also need to rephrase the fact that our Enlightenment is suffering from the odorous vapors, the gases, which are left every day, especially at around 3:00 a.m. At this point, we have Professor Engin Ertan, professor of geothermal facilities, master science branch at Adnan Menderes University. He's got a doctoral thesis he's prepared. I mentioned this doctoral thesis earlier. I'd like you to look into it, please, because it contains very important information for us. If you're going to build a facility, we'd like you to select facilities that will not harm the products in the area you're building, that will not disrupt its ecosystem, that will protect it, that will also improve it. I think it would be an important step in the name of our manufacturers and of all our nations who live in Aydın, if they can be brought in industrialization, which are friendly with nature, friendly with the environment, and especially for Aydın, which will benefit them at the point of marketing agricultural products. Of course, the Enlightenment has many problems to address. And I'm sure you'd be sorry if you knew what time the shops were closed in Kuşadadı, Didim. We don't see any tourists out on the street either. I hope to speak of this in my next speech. But I ask you again, please do not take the law of slaughter of these olive groves, which you have brought in seven verses, and which you have withdrawn for the 7th time, into the agenda of the General Assembly. With all due respect, I salute each and every one of you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0055par0091	Thank you. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. The first statement on the 2nd article is from Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0056par0097	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 2 of the Law Bill 415. I hereby salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, because of the events we've been through, I've needed to read a book I've read before. In the end, after many years, I saw that there was not much change in certain areas, and I was sad. The name of the book is Kochi Bey Risalesi, a reference to Ottoman rulers in the 15th century. I'm going to present examples of these letters, of the risales. However, before we go to the letters, I would like to go to the 2002s and briefly discuss the days of AKP's founding and ruling. Dear lawmakers had built election propaganda on the 3Y formula, since the Justice and Development Party's organisation, as well as prior to the 2002 elections in which it alone was in power, these are: fighting corruption, fighting poverty, fighting bans. As a matter of fact, the citizen voted believing in these promises and brought the AKP to power alone. At which point, did corruption decline as of June 2017, poverty decline, bans end, or has it increased? I'm not going to judge this. Powers come and go, and what matters is the future of our Turkey. What I'm going to emphasize here is whether institutional structures are created on these issues. I want to briefly talk about what are the subpars of this, whether the institutional structure has been created at this point in the fight against corruption, or if there is an effort to do so. Dear lawmakers, the first condition of fighting corruption is that people and institutions who will fight must be independent, personality, free, and licensed. In non-independent institutions, it's a clear choice that can't be fought against cowardly, unlicensed people. That's why I'm saying that these and such criteria should be put first when you're being assigned to bodies and institutions to fight corruption, or when the election is being made. Another important issue is the assurance of the chosen ones. The courageous act of a person who is not sure about tomorrow is only an exceptional situation. See, Koci Bey, who counseled many Ottoman rulers in the late 1500s, early 1600s, mentioned in his letters today in his letter to the state administration: that high-ranking officers were elected from good moral workers, and that they were not dismissed if they did not commit any crime. Today, unfortunately, none of this is being observed, even though it's been many years. In particular, vizierism is a great office. After becoming a man of his place, he must remain in the office of the faithful for many years, not for no reason, but for many years. Again, Coachi Bey, regarding the election of high-ranking statesmen, there would be no bribes and tips from the official office and other government officials, given to veterans, righteous and religious people who had served in the country. In particular, the bannermen and the gentlemen would remain in their seats for twenty years and thirty years. Koçi Bey states that the officers in the Court had earlier qualities: "The high court clerks, the pen keeper, the author, the law-knowing, competent, and able to write letters to the rulers around here. " What a wonderful thing it was more than four hundred years ago when the Court writers were able to write letters to the rulers around. Can we say the same thing today, and I'll leave it to your appreciation. Mr. Coachi has explained that the main cause of irregularities in the state administration is bribery. He says that in all this confusion and turmoil, he's been a corrupt devil for the destruction of realies and lands, for the loss of treasures and goods. It's been over four hundred years, and unfortunately, we couldn't prevent the bribe, that's the pain. In another risal, he gave to Rustüm Paşaş and his daughter Mihrimah Sultan to give him to Rustım Pasha and to make him a vizier without following the order of the Padişah during Sultan Süleyman the Law as a negative practice, saying that the people and the people of the individual should not interfere in the affairs of the kingdom and state. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when we look at it, unfortunately, these jobs are being done, and no one is ashamed, bragging. We saw a very small example a few days ago when a chancellor did it. The setbacks the coach Bey has found regarding state administration are: the commissions of high-ranking officers were made regardless of the merits of the people, the appointment was made in front of the court, the bribes of those close to the priest, the unlawful dismissal of officers due to rumors of failure and jealousy, the murder of successful officers with various slanders, and the dismissal of successful officers by today's adaptation. When we read about them, we see that they continue without a hitch in our day. Koçi Bey (Absorption) did not consider the Yeniçeri kethudas and sergeants to be sevens, eight years each, for no reason. It states that the officers were assigned to these tasks at certain times and that they were not relieved of duty unless they committed any crime. Dear lawmakers, of course, the risales of Koci Bey are important. His assessment of scientists is that the choice of Sheikhulism and Kazakism and Kazakism from people who are virtuous, knowledgeable; the removal of sheikülism, Kazazis, kakaskers and Muslims for no reason; the sale of carculism, virility, and interference for money; the failure of ignorant and incompetent people in the affairs of the heart will result in a bad turn. The suggestions of Coach Bey, who lived four hundred years ago, even before, of scientists, are valid even today. Coachi Bey explained what the measure in the election should be. Coachi Bey's criteria for appointing women are this: "It is not right for high positions of knowledge to be given through this, but whoever has the most knowledge must be given to him. It is a means of knowledge; neither of age nor of years, nor of offspring; but when they are just, they appoint the place for the former peoples. But old age does not lead to self-restraint in the way of God. He's right. There is an exact correlation between today's setbacks and the times of the writing of Koçi Bey Risalesi. After reading this book, which has been briefed on information and suggestions from centuries ago, it's hard not to feel that there's been a lot of years, over 400 years, but there's not much change in the main problems in government. After more than four hundred years, we should be very concerned about the fact that we can't get the length of a horse in many areas. Dear lawmakers, our country is ranked in the 99th place in the report on the rule of law in 2016. Unfortunately, the situation in which our country, ranked 59 degrees between 99 countries in 2014 and 82nd in 2015, has fallen 40 steps in the last two years, on the principle of justice and rule of law, does not look too good from the outside. The countries owe neither their development nor their geographical position nor their resources nor the population; they owe their development to institutionalized structures, to give the job to their people, to adopt the rule of rule of law. That's where the difference between South Korea and North Korea lies. Japan, which was behind our country in the 1950s, has to be sought for such factors to come to this level soon. It is clear that the expected progress cannot be achieved only if the power is left to the initiative of politicians, rulings, bureaucrats. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0057par0118	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir will now take the lead. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0058par0122	Mr. President, while we're on the subject of respectability, I'd like to say a few words first, and then I'd like to come to this contract or another problem. Now we're talking about training in Palestine, Palestine. Educated people must first be respected and maintain the dignity of this great House. This mission belongs to all lawmakers, but it actually belongs to the President of this Grand Assembly. What do I mean? Now there is such a thing as dissolution of forces in all democracies: legislation, execution, judgment. It's all supposed to be next to each other. No one has the upper hand over the other, and no one has the upper hand over the other, and no one has the upper hand over the other, and no one has the upper hand over the other. Has this Parliament made all the laws and constitutions in Turkey? He must have. In this Constitution he has made, this Parliament says: "The government is of the unconditional nation." This nation says: "No MPs can be tried according to the Constitution I have made. No MPs can be tried." We say that they can't be tried as prisoners. We say that they can't be tried as a national will. There may be MPs who don't know this, but three and a half years ago, the Supreme Court rewrote it and distributed it to all of you by Balbay's decree. He said: "Yes, according to the Constitution you have made, no MPs can be tried." Here you go. Now, the court probably disregards this decision by order of the administration, the Constitution of this great Assembly, and we've been saying to the Speaker, the President, the Presidential Court for months: "What if, friend, we've made this law, the judiciary is disregarding it, and you need to stand up and say a couple of words about it. If he still doesn't listen, if the political judgment still doesn't listen to us, then, since we've changed the Constitution, we could have put it in, we could have written it in the Constitution so that they can understand it. You don't do that either. So, sir, what is it? The process of judgment has begun, and we can't intervene. Let go of the trial process. This is your judgment, your judgment, that disregards the Constitution, the laws that this great Assembly has made, and you're still talking about the process of judgment; that's the one. Second: Every day you talk about your struggle with it. It seems to me that you don't go far enough in the jurisdiction, especially in the area where I come from, especially with some judges and some prosecutors, or, more likely, you know very well what they are, but you put them in front of you, in their files, and you get them to do your dirty work. Again, you've read a review about me today. On one lie, a lie... or you, whoever you want, I can put all their evidence in front of you in two minutes that they're all lies. There's been a lecture based on that lie, and it's not enough that they've been served in the press, and they've just started a fascist lynching campaign. When you say "respectability," first, Mr. President, you call your own Constitution... your own national will, here in the building where the national will is established, you will respect the laws and the Constitution yourself first. These prosecutors and judges, people who don't know what they're doing, will one day give you a terrible headache. Right now, I've instructed my lawyers -- both abroad and abroad -- to carefully monitor the 77th article of the TCK, and my entire party is doing it. This is gonna give you a hell of a headache. Take a look at 77. There's no statute of limitations because of the charges there, so let's just call it in. Now, to another problem with the bleeding wound of Turkey. We're always talking about olives, yes, we're rooting for olives, olives shouldn't disappear, we're doing our opposition on that, but we also have a beautiful Black Sea region. In the Black Sea, in Rize, and in the surrounding provinces, people provide their livelihood with tea, a little further west, and especially in Giresun and the Army with nuts. I was going to have a proposal from the CHP group today that they withdrew from a funeral about the nuts, but I had prepared a little bit, so I don't have to prepare too much in the Black Sea. What's the nut problem? In August, they'll be collecting nuts again. It's too short, and I don't have much time, so it's short... The nut's big, the first biggest problem is the price of nuts. Every year, because of the climate, sometimes nuts are too much, lots, sometimes less. That's why people get paid so little because they don't already get enough. They'll run out of money to pick the next nut, and then they'll either fall into the hands of the loan shark or someone else. He's got a loan shark problem, that's because it's the low price of nuts. Second, there are people who are called the Manav, who are in debt to them, who collect nuts, and then go and hand them over to them, and they get less money, and they still can't afford it. There's monopolization; big companies gather, go out and -- the manufacturer's already in trouble before TMO announces the price -- and they take their nuts at very low prices, at low cost -- et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Here's what we need to do: first I have you the cost report for 2015, how much does 1 kilo of nuts cost? Here, you see, there's the cost of growing, there's the cost of harvesting, here, there's the other expenses; there's also what they put in there, and they're tricking my manufacturer. So you don't put side incomes, you don't put incomes, you get expenses. The cost of 1 pot -- 80 kilos of nuts comes from there -- was $8.30 per kilo in 2015. So, my Black Sea citizen, I'm from there -- because he's a little bit purer, not as cunning as the Kaisers, it's not bad for the Kaisers, it's good for the Kaisers, the merchants must be cunning, but ours don't -- ours say: "Ya, I've got that kind of expense, but I'm selling the weed under the dried nuts, or under it, and then I'm getting $55 on the head. This year's price will be much higher. Why? One: People from my constituency, Diyarbakır and that region will not be able to come because the solution process is over, there's tension now, he won't be able to come. So the price of those picking nuts is going to come out of the workers. That price is now said to be between 8.5 and 9 but above 9 is the real price for me. Now, TMO puts a price on a nut that costs 9-9.5 liras, between 10 and 10.5 liras, and says, "I'll buy your nuts for that price." Well, for God's sake, you're making a shirt; the cost of a shirt, I'm throwing it out, it's $5; the wholesaler gives it to the wholesaler, the wholesaler buys it for $10, goes to the retailer for $20, and he sells it to the people for $35,40. So you get what costs $5, you get $35, 40. The price of the nut is 9 lira, 9.5 lira; TMO gives $10, $10.5. And with this $1-1.5, you have 1.5-2 tons of nuts, 15,000 liras, 20,000 liras, whatever, you get into the hands of a family, and you have to live with it; that's not possible. We know you can't solve this because there's a structural problem here. You're stuck between liberalism and liberal capitalism and the social state. We solve it because, one, we're with the worker, we're with the farmer; second, we believe in the social state phenomenon, liberal capitalism is out of the question for us, so we can solve it in the quickest, most beautiful way. It's a very important matter, Mr. President, I'm running out of time, so if you'll excuse me for a few seconds, I'll tell you about it.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0059par0135	We'll bear it for a minute, sir, no problem.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0058par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. These monopolyes have the names of two big companies; I'm not going to explain it here, I can give it to anyone who wants it. They've made money off of them for years, exploiting those farmers in the Army and Giresun, lowering the price of nuts; now they've gone, they're building nuts in China and Chile, especially Chile, and if he holds it, five or six years later -- God forbid -- just as in wheat and hay, we're not going to have to make them ourselves, we're going to have to import them out of the country, God forbid. Mr. President, I think Congress should take a quick look at this and solve the problems of the teamaker in Rize, Giresun, the Nutsman in the Army. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0060par0141	Thank you. Mr. Godkulu, according to 60, wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0061par0146	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Yeneroglu of Istanbul today have made a promise that I did not say, and I have received his word in return. Thank you. Der Spiegel Turkey Representative Maximilian Popp sent me a message and published information that in an interview with SPiegel, he claimed that he said that economic sanctions should be imposed on Turkey, which is not true. When we spoke to Godkulu, the productions didn't even pronounce the word "ambargo" in our speech. Only Turkish foreign policy would have negative impacts on foreign investments in Turkey, and that's how the article was put in its own words. It's his own explanation, he sent it, and I posted it on social media. So Mr. Yeneroglu made the impression that I had said these words, even though the production did not pass the words, and made me the target. Again, I've been threatened in a lot of places since that target showed up. That's what I said yesterday. I made a promise to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0062par0150	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The final word on the 2nd article now belongs to Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz (a member of the Republican People's Party Group). Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0063par0157	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Honorable People's Commission Report, that the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Palestinian State is in order. I salute the High Council. Now, this deal is important. We know the Palestinian state, we know Israel, and we've basically developed relations with Israel, and we've tried to take a path with Palestine. Let us make this clear immediately: the emergence of ISIS in the Middle East, events in Syria, developments in Iraq, events in Yemen, the conflict of Israel-Palestin in the Middle East. Five years ago, 10 years ago, the number one problem with the Middle East was the conflict of Israel - the Palestinian - and now it has been pushed back into the agenda. Yes, the 1947 UN Division Plan has come a long way, especially in terms of the solution to the problem. The Oslo Principles Declaration was published in 1993, and 24 years later, an effort was made at Camp David in 2000, and then there was an agreement reached between Olmert and Abbas in 2008, and it goes on and on. The road map has been created, and unfortunately, the Palestinian problem has not improved as expected. As we look at the Palestinian problem, we also need to know that all countries of the Middle East are directly or indirectly connected to the problem. This deal, this deal that's been brought up, is a deal that we care about, of course, and it's appropriate to accept. But on the one hand, we're helping the Palestinian state, telling the Palestinian state what we're helping them with, but I'd like to read you a piece of the deal. The 11th article contains technical and financial regulations, which says: οn the sender -- if Turkey is sending for education -- when we cover the return and return costs of its delegations -- I mean, is there any point in writing this agreement, while the host side -- the Palestinian side, the poor Palestinian side -- is the property, the ibase costs, and the delegations are involved in this agreement? From Ramallah to Jerusalem... when we went as delegations, we went with our own means. I mean, putting such a simple matter into such an agreement... it's likely it came as a standard agreement, either overlooked or thought of a demon. It's a simple matter. I'd like to make that clear first. Now, it's important, of course, to implement this agreement. However, the most important issue on our agenda has never been a compromise between the Palestinians. In Qatar, which came to the attention today, there was no result of the ongoing negotiations between the Palestinians, so Hamas and El Feteh were brought together and could not be placed as one delegation before Israel. Thus, there was no real progress here because Turkey viewed Palestine as Hamas. The fact that Qatar is a subject of criticism because of the Muslim brothers in Qatar. The international publicization of Qatar (Katar) supports the terrorist organization because of the Muslim brothers. For the formation of Gaza, Hamas, is essentially the Palestinian version of the Muslim brothers in Egypt, and everyone knows it. Even so, such talks in Qatar would be inevitable. What was it that Turkey was supposed to do? Until he left these jobs to Qatar, things had to be done there, in some way, before such a development occurred; since Palestine has so much support for Hamas, if the Muslim brothers are so protective of Hamas, then they should have been able to do so in Istanbul, then they should have done so in Ankara, and they should have been able to reconcile the Palestinians. Today, a two - state solution is no longer discussed in Palestine, only spoken of. Today, especially since Donald Trump came to work, there has been a particularly single state solution, a two-state solution that is now being resolved. We don't hear any explanation for this. However, we know the Palestinian state, and we always say that we have known the Palestinian state by this time, but in the Trump period, especially in February, as he demonstrated in his meeting with Netanyahu, it can now be both states, it can also be one state. I want what you want. What you wanted was what I wanted. He means what I wanted. What was it before? There's never been a single government solution on the agenda before, there's been two government solutions. During the Obama era, during the Bush era, the father during the Bush era, the two-state solution was always brought up. In particular, the road map, developed by what we call "Quartet," was focused on a two-state solution. But we're looking at people who put so much into the Palestinian cause of public opinion, who are here, who have faced so many battles for this ideal, are now slowly slipping away from these ideal hands, and basically nobody's making a sound. Do you know why this happened, where the breaking point is? Yes, there was one minute, and there was an effect on one minute. But when was one minute put in the trash? When the Israeli soldiers who operated on the Blue Marmara ship were pardoned from all judicial processes in this Parliament, the myth of αone minute (which ended here) ended, and after that night you were silent. Please, have some of this Palestinian file, not just for public opinion. Look, Donald Trump has been making some interesting explanations since he took over. Now, who is the Israeli ambassador? The Israeli Ambassador is appointing an ex-lawyer who went bankrupt in New York. What else is he doing? See, again, it makes someone who used to work for their company a Middle Eastern representative. What else is he doing? He assigns his son-in-law to foreign policy matters, and this opens the view from Israel's window to the Middle East. Going towards a unistated solution, today the settlements continue, there is no improvement in borders, there is no improvement in reconciliation between Palestinians, negotiations in Qatar are failing, Jerusalem's status is not coming up in any way, eventually it's decided, it's not understood anything without understanding everything. It's called and nothing can be achieved. Sadly, in the developments in the Middle East, a veil is drawn over the Israeli-Palestian conflict. As a matter of fact, our responsibility as a country will increase further from now on. Because there's also a shift in the international community's view of the Palestinian case. The European Union isn't interested. The European Union has made a Middle East conference in its own country to regain the prestige it lost in France, especially Africa, because the United States of America has the key. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And nothing's done about it. End of story, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0064par0171	Complete, please, in a minute.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0063par0172	Why is our responsibility and obligation increasing in addition to this? Because now the world's view of Hamas is changing, Hamas has published a declaration of principles, and even though it seems that he is far away from the Muslim Brotherhood, there is such a mark on him. And Qatar, the host of Qatar, was branded on it. Now, what Turkey is supposed to do is that it knows Israel, it knows Palestine, and it's basically a conflict between Arabs. Then let these meetings be held in Turkey, and let them be held in Turkey. At least let the altitude we've lost be here. Otherwise, we'll work for nothing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0064par0175	Thank you. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. The first word for the groups on the matter belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0065par0182	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in the matter. I salute the High Council and all of you. Yeah, let's pick up where you left off. You know, we're talking Middle Eastern geography. The Middle East geography is a geography that has hosted many civilizations, cultures, communities and belief systems throughout human history. This geography, with such great significance, has a long history of historical history, has also been the center of great struggles. These are, of course, a very typical example of the Crusades a thousand years ago, with the most concrete of them and the most significant of them in memory. In fact, the poets have done a very good analysis of this. At that time, look, there was a hidden reason, and there was a cover-up of it, and there was a pattern, and there was an obvious excuse. In this Geography where the Crusades took place, the Muslim East and the Christian West, that was supposedly the open cause of liberation in the Middle East geography around the conflicting area of Jerusalem; the religion was an excuse for religious liberalisation, but the real reason underlying it was that the region had a very civilized -- a richness in its resources. Just as the real causes of that day were material, today we are witnessing recalculations in this geography. Again, the real reason for their subterranean and subterranean wealth, was the same a hundred years ago, after the discovery of Mosul and Kerkuk oil deposits, a new Crusade spirit was revived in the region and the invasion movement began. What changed today? And nothing has changed today, and the saying has always been... it was liberation that day, twenty-five or thirty years ago, and it was the same thing that was used in the invasion of Iraq in 1991, and it was the propaganda of the liberation of those orientists. What was it? We are here to free Iraq. We've come to rescue a dictator like Saddam, but the real reason was the real estate of that area that was used in the Crusades a thousand years ago. What happened? The dictator is gone; peace, peace? He didn't show. Later, the name "Arab Spring" began to spread through the region, making it pay more severe, more severe prices. What's the matter, has Tunisia been liberated, has he come to anything as an asset? Is Libya free? Has Syria been liberated? No, none of this has happened, and today Palestine is becoming the name of an ancient human being, who, in fact, has paid the same price, who is still paying the same price. When you say Palestine, we're talking about a culture now known as tragedy. Palestine, unfortunately, is remembered by the epiphany of revenge that was left incomplete in the Crusades of the West. Today, Qatar may be thinking the same thing. Then what do you have to do? So we need to turn these scenarios upside down and really diplomatically -- look, diplomacy isn't the art of speech; diplomacy, it's going to be a bit amicable, but it's the art of work -- we need to do as much work as we can, so we have to achieve as much success as we can. Now in this geography, we have to be really, really hope because in this geography, we have brothers and sisters who are historical, cultural, human, and religiously strong, sir, countries. Yes, if we don't do our part in accordance with the rules of diplomacy, in the form of a preemptive movement, without actually procrastinating our national interests -- God forbid -- the next may be a large account -- a little rehearsal of this was done on July 15th -- we could become a geography, a state. Now, if you want to know what I mean by this blessed day with a joke, now that I've heard this joke in the last few days, I like it very much: a neighbor's rooster reads a prayer in the morning prayer, and he recites a prayer. The neighbor takes the knife and comes running. Look, stop reading the prayer, I'll cut your head off. The rooster says: "All right, I won't read." The neighbor goes, and the rooster crows normally the next day. The neighbor -- he took the courage -- he's coming back with the knife. Look at me, you won't talk. If you sing again, I'll cut your head off. He says, "I will not speak." He says, "I will not speak." There he goes again, neighbor. On the third day of the day, before the rooster gets over the shock of these two events, the neighbor gets the knife, no excuse, this time. The rooster is surprised. He says, "What happened?" He says: 'You will lay eggs, or I will cut your head off.' The rooster says with great sorrow and shame: 'I wish I had cut my head off when I read the prayer.' Really, now, we shouldn't be in the position of this rooster, so we really need to put our clear stances on the table in line with our interests, clearly from the beginning. Look, the world is doing calculations on this geography, and it's on our doorstep. So they almost started pushing the impossible at us, so to speak, the excuses lasted until Qatar. Now, really, we have a lot of reasons to say something in this whole area that we just counted. Dear lawmakers, look, we have historical ties, cultural ties, relatives, we have a limit of over 900 kilometers to a state in the region alone. I mean, there's so many reasons why we should take initiative and take interest in the region, but unfortunately, especially in Israel, the United States and Russia, why do we stop when we're taking initiatives that will have very severe consequences in the United Nations Security Council's decisions at times? What are they doing? Sir, they can call the Security Council a request and easily intervene in Syrian internal affairs. Do they have that right? No. What are we doing, the world's bigger than five? Do they have any of the reasons we have? For God's sake, does Israel, Russia, or the United States of America have any relation to the region, to the people of the region, to the people of the sect, to the faith, or to the people of the border? No, but he gets a say in it. He's going, just like a thousand years ago, he's putting his flag, his tank, his ball in the name of liberation, and they're trying to turn it into an international diplomacy speech, as if it were somehow natural, sir, and they're trying to sell it to us. What are we doing? We have to talk less and achieve many diplomatic achievements. And thank God for that, in these days, when plagues rid away the plagues, in those times when our country, despite all things, is united, in great determination and determination, we have a very clear obligation to take every precaution in the continuation of this, if necessary. I say this is due to our relations with countries and the living in the region and our obligation to do so on the basis of our historical mission, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit02spe0066par0189	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0066par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 103th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 415. The commission and the government are in place. On the third article of the bill, İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0067par0006	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by saying, in fact, that I wish we had a Ayhan Bilgen friend here today instead of me. Because the area that we're talking about, where relations, history, politics, culture talks about the People's Democratic Party of Congress can give Congress a benefit, open our horizons, and in the end, even if their proposals are rejected, maybe it's the one that's going to give us the opportunity to have a brainstorm. However, the Parliament, unable to get him out of prison, deprived him of such a valuable contribution and, on the other hand, watched the process of living be crippled. Their deputy is in prison, a Parliament that argues the law is in fact a parliament that is a prisoner, held captive by the execution, a parliament held captive by the court. Therefore, this may be the only argument that such a Assembly will have, and it will place me with Ayhan Bilgen. Let's see if I can give you some benefits instead. First issue, point one, of course it's good to have this agreement approved. The Palestinian government in Ramallah would need recognition, legitimacy, and all Palestinian friends in Palestine, which are divided between Gaza and Ramallah, should actually help ensure their national unity. This agreement may contribute in this regard, but as a whole, Turkey's policy towards Palestine is far from contributing to the national unity of Palestine. The agreement with Israel to compensate for the damage caused by the Blue Marmara attack was essentially carried out by a direction between Gaza and Ramallah, which strengthened the hand of Gaza in the final analysis, trying to ensure that the talks on Palestine would be taken on the advantage of Gaza, making the floating port on the Gaza coast a subject of negotiations between Israel and Egypt and Gaza. Therefore, none of these approaches are primarily contributing to the true, genuine, Palestinian freedom and salvation of Palestine. As a matter of fact, today, in addition to the process in Qatar, where Hamas had defected in some way, it is an approach among the parties in Palestine that holds the hand of Hamas, holding the hand of the Muslim brothers, but the Palestinian central administration ignores the political position of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. In this framework, essentially, the politics of today's Justice and Development Party towards Palestine, like the politics of the Arab world, is a sectal brotherhood; the second, an irrational, irrational policy, which is built by the passion of showing flags again in the ancient Ottoman India. And when we look in this framework, we have to see that in Palestinian politics, we are far from contributing to Turkey's process of essentially saving Palestine from the Israeli invasion, of Palestine as a new free state with its own state. In fact, not only that, but also that the role of Turkey in Palestinian politics is fundamentally negative because of close relations with Palestinian enemies. Therefore, just because this agreement was signed, relations with Palestine would not have contributed to the Palestinian people's case, but on the other hand, it's good to have it. I, in general, think that the interest in Arab countries' freedoms, rights and cultures in all the dominant policies in Turkey does not match their historical existence with real respect. In one of the talks held here yesterday, I heard the rational offer of staying behind the advice to stay away from the Qatar issue, and I understood, I was really amazed that we shouldn't have conflicts between Arabs today because Arabs fight among themselves, tomorrow they come back and fight with us, so it's best to stop. The issue, however, is not whether or not to be a part of the dispute between Arabs or others, but to stand by the right and the wrong. Often, as a derivative of international politics, Turkey did not stand by the Arabs as a derivative of its own international commitments and addictions during many conflicts in the Arab world or during the Arab world's disputes with Israel or the Western world. In the Battle of Algeria, Algeria stood by the Democratic Party, not by the Arabs of Algeria in the War of Freedom. It took Turkey 40 years to clear up this shame. However, after 40 years, Ozal had to apologize when he went to Algeria, the foundations of a logical relationship between Algerians and Turkey and Algeria were laid. When we look at today's politics -- Syria's domestic politics -- it's so colonial, so aggressively involved that it's impossible to know how Turkey will establish its relationship with Syria tomorrow on new foundations, how it will account for the loss of people, the loss of their lives. It wasn't about getting involved in the Arab conflict, it was about standing up for the right one. He gave blind support to an international coalition, one way or another, to destroy a legitimate government. So, I would say, on this occasion: if we want to support the freedom of Palestine, the Israeli oppression, the liberation of the Israeli occupation, a united free country, we have to avoid hegemonism in our policy towards the Arab world in general, the desire to revive the Ottoman heritage, because we have the Arab national identity, Arab culture, one of the most important elements of Arab memory, as peoples ruled under the Ottoman occupation.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0068par0011	The Ottomans were not invaders, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0067par0012	Freedom from here, freedom from the Ottoman invasion is one of the most important components of the Arab struggle. They and the Republic of Turkey can be part of a common culture again, but it is only related to a policy that opposes colonialism, occupation, historically or actively. So what we're going to present to the Arab world is not the bright memory of those who once ruled Turkey as their master, but the fact that we can support the days when the Arabs lived free today with their own free governments, with their own free countries, with our own freedoms to offer them information, a truth, a policy. So, this deal looks like this, so it should be approved, but the environment surrounding it, the universe surrounding it, is still crippled by this irrational history interpretation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0069par0015	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0070par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0069par0017	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0070par0018	While the speaker described the foreign policy of the EC PARTY and its relationship with Palestine, he said that he had been treated with an irrational, religious political mind. These are taunts, and I want words in this frame according to 69.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0069par0019	Here, I'll give you two minutes without teasing.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0071par0020	What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0069par0021	Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0072par0024	Mr. President, dear friends, we're not being irrational, we're not being irrational, first of all.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0071par0025	Sometimes you can be surprised.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0072par0026	Minds can be talked about, it may not be in your head, but you certainly have a mind here. How many times has it been expressed at every level that our foreign policy is not intended for such a purpose? On the outside, people who represent colonialism sometimes make these kinds of accusations against countries that show some presence in the region. So, to bring up the same charges here, a little saying carries a different bond, I'd like to underline it. The reality of the fifteen-year foreign policy of the EC PARTY denies it, you say. Because of the nuclear crisis, Iran and America were having problems, it was one of the countries that gave Iran the most important support. We are not of the same sect as Iran, but we have taken an approach to a country in the region, a reality, a solidarity of the people there. In the same way, when we say Syrian territorial integrity, Iraq's territorial integrity, our approach is the same. In Iraq, there were problems in the past. The Kurds came, they took refuge in Turkey, we opened our doors. In this sense, our view of the Middle East is not a nationalist or sectarian approach; it is a regional approach where peace and peace will be achieved, and whatever social reality it is, along with its own realities. Our efforts in this direction are recorded in fifteen years of history. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0073par0033	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0074par0034	Mr. President, I just wanted to make a statement to make it into the report. This is not the religion of our country. He said, Mr. Bostanci. A country doesn't have a cult...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0075par0036	No, yeah.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0074par0037	...there is no religion in a country. If we use it that way, then we'll be excluding our fellow citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0076par0039	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The final word for the groups on the matter now belongs to Izmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay (Izmir) on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0077par0046	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are now discussing the clause on the deal with Palestine. It's really nice to have our relations with the Middle Eastern countries spoken under an agreement, but the situation we're in right now, especially the developments with Qatar, is far behind this agreement in a good dialogue with the Middle East countries. It's just that even when we look at the developments that have been happening since last night with Qatar, we're not in a good position and we're not in the same mind as Mr. Bostanci said, lawmakers, when we look at how Turkey's immediate increased relations with this country on a military level and immediately followed the policy of sending troops to the base. Look, everywhere Trump goes, there's a cramp, so relationships get tense. He's gone to the Middle East now, and what happened just after he returned? The United States of America is the largest base in the region, and its relations with its only land neighbour, Saudi Arabia, have been broken, and seven countries have declared embargoes to this country. A few hours ago, the agency reports that they are asking the U.S.A. what about your base there? The country that supports the terror... nothing will happen to my base. The United States is currently controlling tensions in the region, and unfortunately, lawmakers, as in Turkey's history, are moving forward, rather than being on the road to resolving problems in the region, rather than being part of this solution, as part of the problem. And while you're withdrawing the olive law on the agenda, we're extending an olive branch. The bride says to reshape Middle Eastern policy, considering Turkey's traditional policy. Congressmans, I also see on this bench that both the other opposition parties and the ruling party lack serious information about the relations with the Middle East countries in our history. Our relations with these countries seem to be being created in our organization, during the Ataturk era and after that. Ataturk sent an ambassador to Syria even in the process of resolving the problem with Hatay. The ambassador sent me when I was under the buffalo in Iraq. They asked Ataturk: "Why do you send ambassadors? " They will eventually become independent states. Let us now feel that we want to develop our relations with those countries in longing for independence. Of course, he wanted to establish relationships, but he didn't develop because the buffalo administration continued. Members of parliament are part of the problem on the agenda, and it is also part of the Sadabat Pact, which was signed in 1937 at the Sadabat Palace in Tehran, where Turkey, Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan were involved. When did that pact end? 1981. When did the Persian-Iraq War break out? In 1980. What'd it cost? To the death of 1.5 million people. Here, our position in the region has been facing peace in the past. At the very least, Turkey was in charge of contributing to the relationship between them, not to the problem, but to the solution. When the Sadabat Pact was signed, Iran and Iraq said, "Let's add something to it." Turkey asked: "What is it?" They suggested to Turkey: "If there are problems between Iran and Iraq, let Turkey be a mediator." So, from such a date, we now continue to be almost part of all the problems in the Middle East. The ruling party here... yes, we have to be active in the region, we have to protect the interests of Turkey in the region, but the developments since yesterday have been interpreted as: "Sunni bloc has cracked." The Sunni block, created against the bloc, cracked for the first time. Their comments have been made, and it has been highlighted that there is a deepening between the part of Turkey and the part that does not exist. In such an environment, we sent soldiers to Qatar. Qatar's Foreign Minister has also made a statement, saying that the Turkish soldier will contribute here. Mr. Bostanci just said we don't have any worries about the landscaping or anything like that. Only Republican People's Party MPs filed a four-time question motion, and I gave it to them three days ago. Now, I'm asking you, lawmakers, why do you remain silent when 18 islands in the Aegean Sea are occupied by Greece under our noses and beyond the provinces of Izmir, Aydın and Mughla? This question -- here, of course, there's the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs -- but we asked the Secretary of State, and when we didn't get any answers, we asked the Secretary of Defense, and he said, "Maybe he's got an idea about this, maybe he'll give us a light, but we didn't get an answer. Members of parliament, 18 islands and one rock in the territory of the Republic of Turkey with the Lausanne Agreement are now in effect occupied by Greece. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, when asked this question when he was Minister of the National Defence, said, "Yes, according to Lausanne, these islands are our lands and continue as our lands." However, Bali Yıldırım had to use a passport when he wanted to go to one of those islands as İzmir MP. From here I ask: Why is Turkey silent in this occupation in the Aegean Sea, which is so sensitive to solving the problems in the Middle East, that it can pull an agreement that will come a year later if necessary, and will send troops there by 5,000? Now that he's been so quiet, it's hard to imagine if the government has a map that we don't know about. Does the government have an agreement we don't know about? Because 18 is to accept that the island is now occupied by Greece, and 18 is to accept the revulsion of Sevr. Because after the First World War, when Izmir was invaded, there were those who said, "No, this is not an occupation." But right now, these islands under the nose of Izmir, Aydın and gaga, the MPs, are both under occupation and should be unarmed according to the Lauzan Treaty, but they are all armed and are almost all pointed towards Turkey. I wonder if there's any such thing as unity in the country, unity in the dorm, unity in the state. There's no such thing as land integrity? If necessary, why is it that when Turkey has a 1-millimeter problem in its borders, we don't grow it and give it a piece of land, not even a piece of gravel? Why is it silent against 18 islands? These islands were released from Turkey in 1913, in 1914 with the Treaty of London, but in the circumstances of that day with Lausanne, they joined the territory of Turkey, but since you accepted the invasion of these islands, you have said yes to such a large loss of land for the first time since the republic's establishment. Congressmans, we will continue to ask questions about the Aegean. There's something else about these Aegean islands. Greece is currently creating local configurations for the governance of the cities, to establish municipalities there. We're really having trouble understanding the government's silence against these islands, which are a distance from swimming to Turkey, even from shouting. The bottom line is... if this silence continues, we'll be wondering, really, if there's any softness to these Sevr seekers, or if there's a map that we don't know about. Congressmans, Qatar is on the agenda... we really want this region to be at peace. But Turkey's policy now is just like... we're talking about the Palestinian treaty, but the AKP government has sided with Palestine all along, took sides with the parties, and we've reached the point today. I'm saying, please don't look at this as part of a problem that the whole world has called the first crack in the Sunni block. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0078par0061	Thank you. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now they'll all vote in the form of an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes that all votes of the following international agreements should be carried out by separate electronic voting devices: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. Now we'll start the open vote. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian State of Education and Higher Education: ▪ Number of votes used: 197 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Convention on Anti-Secondation of Desertization between the Constitution of the United Nations and the State Commission's Charter on the Establishment of Regional Co-ordination Units in Turkey due to the Convention Against Desertization in the North Mediterranean. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 471 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to all its articles: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The formation of the northern army of the United Nations under the arrest of a member of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Anti-Democratic Convention on Anti-Semitification of the United Nations in Ankara on 23 October 2015 has been approved in connection with the establishment of the Regional Co-ordination Unit in Turkey. The first word on the 1st article is for Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0091	Mr. President, I'm going to tell you again today, and I won't tirelessly, because because I have the responsibility to tell you as a representative and as a living person, because of your insistence in the policies that have happened and continued destructions and victims, forced and inhumane policies. Look, this is Sur, the seven thousand-year historical site of Sur, the entire area of Sur. Here, when you looked at this area -- this area, which is completely barren -- where there are these tiny, tiny, narrow little blocks of Tyre, the neighborhoods -- it has turned into huge boulevards. Look, there's only three or four structures. I want you to look at this area, and it's completely destroyed, and it's still falling apart. Last year, in March 9, 2016, Interior Minister Efkan Ala said, "Operations are over." And for 16 months, there are still no police barricades here, yet no one can enter here to see where he lives, even though he still has the right to look at where he lives. Look, thousands of houses here are gone. There are now two neighborhoods, Ali Pasha and Lalabey Mahals, where about 6,000 people live, where there are 300 families, there are also pressure being imposed on them over the urgent decision of publicisation taken on 21 March 2016; their electricity, their water is being cut off, and there are announcements being made there at night with TOMAESTs; if you don't leave, pressure is imposed on you, we will force you out of here, and the pressure is applied with the instruments of the force, and when it becomes Kurdish, when it becomes Kurdya's home, when people become Kurd's history, when it becomes a Kurdish society's history, there's a strange form of terrorism, where there's no criminalization, if you don't respect the language, there't have been any resistance, if you don't get out of religion, there't have been any resistance, there. Over the course of seven thousand years, 40 civilizations have come here, every civilization has left a date behind; some have built mosques, some have built churches, synagogues have been formed, and there's an incredible amount of historical wealth, but you look at it, looking back at the history that 40 civilizations have left over the seven thousand years, looking at this piece, how proud you are of this work -- it's little -- it's little! Look what you've done with 7,000 years of history. Look what you've done to 7,000 years of history.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0080par0097	Nothing happened.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0098	Look at what you've done! Thousands of people, a history of 7,000 years, a museum of civilization...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0080par0099	Nothing happened!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0100	Of course, nothing will happen to you. You don't have a childhood there, you don't have an identity, you talk like that because there's no place left by your grandfather or your ancestor.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0080par0101	We know better than you!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0102	You talk about it because you're doing politics over the table, and you're talking about it because you're condemning people to monogamy over the table. It's because you guys are talking like this. And two neighborhoods, look, I'm talking about two neighborhoods, their electricity, their water. It's the month of mubarak Ramadan, isn't it? And those people are Muslims, and I respect all the beliefs, but I'm only saying that because they're blessed Ramadan bears. What kind of faith is it to force those people out of power by cutting off water, by being condemned to thirst and electricity? I'll ask you what faith you have. There's no way I'm ever gonna... You'll leave one day, but you'll be remembered for these destructions, these destructions, these destructions that you've left behind. Look, you will be remembered for these destructions. It wasn't enough, look, I'll tell you this: 82 percent of Tyre has been nationalized there. Do you know why 12 percent weren't nationalized? It wasn't nationalized because it was given to the TOKI. Fifty-five thousand tradesmen work there, small businesses work there. Small operators are there to support their lives and the heart of Diyarbakır's economy, Sur, but you're looking at it, you can't even see 55,000 tradesmen. Other than that... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Quietly, if you have a conscience, listen with your mind if you have no conscience. Other than that, look, it doesn't work with decisions at the desk. I'm telling you, why do houses fall apart when there's nothing going on in Ali Pasha and Lalabey neighborhoods? Ruined for what purpose? At one point, the Prime Minister said: "We are going to make it Toledo. He left before he could reach his dreams, without reaching them. Someone else came in, said he was gonna do something else, so he left. Every comer is trying to dream his own dream there, and he's trying to build life through his own dreams. There's a life there, a living history that's lived for thousands of years. You or us or me or anyone else has no right to do politics through them. Those people have the right to live there; they have the right to live with their identities, their language, their beliefs, and that is our problem of human, moral, moral representation. If I have a responsibility to tell you about this problem today, you have a responsibility to solve it as a power. Today, if you insist on the destruction of such a large area -- your insistence on the destruction of 7,000 years of history -- is not just for you -- you will be debated with the debris you leave behind.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0081par0110	Can you see Mount 40s in there? Is it destroyed?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0111	Mountain of the 40s... and Mount of the 40s, I tell you, there's nothing we can't face. We respect people's objections, the public's objections, everything they reject. Look, he objected, refused, and the object of the object was respected and stopped there. If those people don't want to leave their home today, we have to respect him and stay at home. They are already people who came in the 90s, and most of them came in immigration, and most of them poor people. So you're saying that he's already poor, he's already immigrated, he's already been victimized by the war, and we should sacrifice them here. Is that your political understanding? Is that how you see people? Is that what you're doing for the community? Is that the value you give to this people? Haven't you had enough? The whole place is burning down, isn't that enough? Fight your Kurdish in Turkey, fight the Kurd in Rojava, outside Turkey, as long as the Kurds don't own anything! What kind of understanding is that? What is this endless grudge, endless rage? You've made enemies of your own Kurds, you've made enemies of yourselves, you've made enemies of the Kurds of your own borders, and you've entered the worst swamp in the Middle East, you're not the only ones who have entered, we've all entered. We all get hurt, every person who dies there is our lives, no matter what, the military, the police, the guerrilla, the child because they all have parents, all of them, the children of this people. That's not the right thing to do here. What needs to be done here is to establish the basis of the solution and negotiation and to stop the killings as soon as possible. I'm tired of saying this, and I'm really tired of saying it every day through solutions and negotiations. I'm also very disappointed in such a reckless approach. I say: It is the month of Ramadan, and the people are fasting. You know, when you're so blessed, in two hours' time, people will go and open their mouth and pray before God, and say: "Allah forgive me. But will he pay the price for what he has taken from those who have destroyed these houses in the presence of God?" He'll never give it to me. Everything is forgiven, but the right of the subject can never be forgiven. I will insist that this is the people, the people who live there. With monotheistic mentality, I don't even accept that a group of people, as a living person, and as a representative of the capitalistic system will never accept that their home be destroyed, let alone by those people. He's not enough, the governor of the place is looking for my governor, and he says: "You'll leave." He says: "I don't want to go out, it's my house." He says: "If you don't go out, I'll get you out of there in my own way." What right does he have to do that to you? What pride is that? If you're the government of this country, you're the government of 80 million people, you can't just do that with those who voted for you or those who obeyed you. You have to respect the lives, identity, history of the people there. He thinks differently. Just because he thinks differently doesn't mean he's going to turn you against him, doesn't mean he's going to ignore those people's children and terrorize them. You're crying for Palestinian children, declaring Kurdish children terrorists? You're doing actions for Palestinian children, laughing and laughing while the bodies of the Kurdish children next to you are kept in refrigerators. You think the Kurds there don't see that? Don't you think the mother of that Kurdish child doesn't see you? Don't you have any moral responsibility to them? Don't you have any human feelings for those people? For the last time, for the destruction of Ali Paşa neighborhood and Lalabey neighborhood, I'm telling you for the last time, to tear down the thousands of history there, in the face of history, in the face of humanity, in the most relentless, in the face of all values. Don't let anyone forget that.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0117	Mr. Heroalp, I have to express a few things in particular. There's no one to terrorize Kurdish children, no one to see them. You need to separate the Kurds from the terrorist organization, no matter who it is...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0118	Who was the gazelle forearm? Two children killed by the Panzer in Şırnak?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0119	Look, there's no war on Kurds, on the contrary, there's a struggle the state has fought with the PKK terror organization, which employs the biggest persecution against Kurds.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0121	Don't be a porter.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0122	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0123	I'm sorry, you're a eunuch.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0124	You're making the move, so please watch your language.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0125	How can you say that when two children are sleeping in Şırnak, while the one who enters the house dies with the Panzer?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0126	You'll be careful, you'll be careful, no.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0083par0127	You'll be careful. You'll have to lead objectively, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0128	People get killed every day.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0129	You need to say a few words to the terrorist organization that's killing people.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0079par0130	Didn't Panzer break into the house and kill the sleeping kids?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0084par0131	I'm in the system. I want to talk to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0082par0132	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0085par0133	You're all terrorists. Shit!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0086par0134	You don't talk, you don't talk.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0087par0135	Don't talk to what, don't talk to what!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0088par0136	What the hell is going on?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0089par0137	Congressmans, one moment, I promised Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0088par0141	Mr. President, there are certain aspects of the witness' speech that I disagree with, apart from that. As you pointed out in Turkey, there is a Kurdish reality, a Kurdish problem, and a case of terrorism from a PKK terrorist organization. But this is the House, and there are three political parties outside the party where he belongs. In order for there to be no way -- this is a tradition -- I consider reminding you of the Civil Code a violation, but your involvement in this argument is not true, Mr. President. Here the ruling party can answer, the main opposition party can answer, the other opposition party can answer. I mean, I understand your human reflex, and I respect that, but it's a way. Parliament Speakers who lead the session must not participate in the debates on the Assembly General Assembly. I want to do this with good intentions and sincerity... It's not just about you, it's about the other vice presidents from time to time, we don't find it right, Mr. President. If we are serving as a legislature here, we must obey the Civil Law that binds us -- I don't know -- that binds us. I've seen it necessary to make such an assessment. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0090par0144	Mr. Altay, I know the Civil Code, and I try to obey the Constitution as much as I can, but really, when it comes to the country, when it comes to it, when it comes to the nation, when it comes to the flag, when it comes to the country, I think we'll have a word. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) As a Deputy Speaker of Parliament, we have an opinion that when it comes to it, we have statements at the point of the country's indivisible integrity.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0091par0145	The country is our country.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0092par0146	We love you more than you do. Believe me, we love you more.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0093par0147	Mr. President, in your response to my speech, someone who doesn't listen to my speech or who reaches the end of it, hears your speech and says: "Engin Altay, home, I don't know, it's against..." There are 550 MPs here to protect this country.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0149	I'm one of those 550, Mr. Altay, and I'm one of the 550, you're right.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0095par0150	You'll be neutral.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0093par0151	No, sir, no, no, Mr. President. Mr. Gardendoor is here, he's in charge, he's sitting there, you do it from here, and he's taking the criticism I'm giving you... Critics happen in his presidency from time to time. That's not true, sir. Internal Charter 64 is open. You're telling me: I know.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0152	I know.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0093par0153	Well, if you know, Mr. President, this will be followed.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0154	I'm sleeping, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0093par0155	I mean, the MPs have sensitivity. Yes, the country in question, of course, but I know there are a lot of traitors under the guise of government officials who are torturing our Kurdish citizens in that area.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0096par0156	Cleaning up, cleaning up.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0157	We condemn all traitors, but we also respond to a violent struggle against terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0097par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0159	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0097par0160	Mr. President, as for the orator talk to us, you ignore them, you terrorize them, you destroy their homes. As for the obvious taunts that we will never accept, I ask for a word.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0094par0161	Here you go, Mr. Mush. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0098par0163	The president has already responded.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0099par0164	Ahmet Aydın has already answered Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0100par0167	Mr. President, the valued MPs; everyone living in Turkey is an equal citizen of the state of the Republic of Turkey; each citizen living in the east and in the north and in the south has the same rights. It is not always right for us to accept this: we cannot accept racism. Look, you tear down the houses of the Kurds from head to toe, ignore them when it's their turn, terrorize them, take their bread, take their food... aren't you the People's Democratic Party? Your people, right?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0101par0168	Yeah, does it cut water in Ramadan?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0100par0169	But when I get here, it's just a speech on Kurdish identity, and I can't see anything else, and it's wrong and wrong.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0102par0170	Don't divide people into people, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0100par0171	Look, precious MPs, we don't care about our citizens.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0102par0172	This country has crossed the nation's stage, it's become a nation. Don't fall into a trap.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0100par0173	All 80 million have the same rights in this country as I have rights in the Republic of Turkey, in the east, in the southeast, in another region. The events in Tyre were the pit wars that the terrorist organization started to create a domain for itself, the pit acts.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0102par0175	You're going to rekindle the tribal mentality.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0100par0176	What would the government do if it was trying to create an area of terror within its own sovereignty? He won't watch, precious MPs. Nowhere in the world would the government allow a structure to build its own domain within its borders. Those potholes in there, they're terrorists. The terrorists are the ones who slaughtered those children. The terrorists who blew up 16 of our citizens in burritos and slaughtered those people in that burrito you couldn't go to, you can't make them innocent. There's no such thing as Guerilla, they're terrorists; you'll call it right.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0104par0179	I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0180	No, I'm not going to talk here because I want a word from the tease.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0104par0181	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0183	First of all, Mr. President, I'd like to ask if there's freedom of expression here, if the MPs can express their opinion on this council bench. It doesn't exist, though, because we see it with our detainees, and every word they say out here has been removed from their immunity. Now, Mr. Orator, our orator, he spoke of two very special neighborhoods, the two neighborhoods with no operations. In these neighborhoods, the right to property has been seized, the right to health has been declared, and in these neighborhoods, we will cut off your water in Ramadan. Our citizens who live here are Kurdish citizens, and so they've already said that using your name. There's no discrimination, no racism, and there's no one-identity movement of the People's Democratic Party. In fact, you won't find a party where there's a lot of people who are pluralists and a lot of IDs, but we don't do politics on it. We're talking about the rights of the people who were there. Another time we're talking about the rights of disabled people, the rights of women at another time, the olives at another time. The children he was talking about there, so easily, the children you immediately called terrorists, are Cemile, who is kept in the refrigerator, who is 12 years old, and Miray is the baby, and he spoke to them as an example.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0105par0186	They're the ones who slaughtered the burritos. Go to the burrito, to the burrito.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0187	Don't answer me. He spoke as an example of them, and therefore, Mr. President, you have no right to get up from there and say nothing to the Kurds.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0105par0189	They're the ones who blew up 16 people in burritos; look at them.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0190	The other day, the Panzer entered the house, and we said that they needed to be checked, not to be out on the streets. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What more can our friends say?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0106par0194	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0103par0195	It's all about terror, half the country's terrorists!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0107par0196	Let's not get ahead of ourselves, it was an accident.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0108par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0109par0198	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0108par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, here -- Mr. CHP Group Deputy has just expressed -- we need to distinguish one thing from the terror problem and the Kurdish problem once again. We, the National Movement Party, in no way accept the Kurdish problem in this country. There is a terror problem in this country, and the fight against terrorism must be done to the end; this is the first. Second, we need to distinguish between our Kurdish citizens and terrorists. In that sense, your speech is very meaningful, and it's true that it is wrong and discrimination to present a fight against terrorists as a struggle against Kurds, against our Kurdish brothers. We can't accept that either. The Kurds are our brothers in that area. We are a people, a nation together, and a nation together. That's how we need to see it. Now, some public officials may have made individual mistakes in the past, or may have happened today. It is also very wrong to blame the state, to target the state, and to develop an argument against the state. If there's an individual crime, if there's a mistake, you can go over it properly, administratively, legally. Now, your party's name is Peoples' Democratic Party by returning to HDP. I don't know, you must've slipped up there, you shouldn't be correcting one mistake with another. We are not allowed to accept an expression in the form of people here. We are a people, a great nation, and an ancient people." I don't think there's a right expression here in the form of people. About that military vehicle entering a house, it's really very sad, very wrong, we're all very upset. So here we are in any case... hundreds of accidents happen every day in this country, traffic accidents happen, a bus flies from place to place. We don't look at the origins of the people who died here, we feel sorry for them all as a member of this nation -- what happened elsewhere, and what happened in our own country. It's discrimination to look at the Kurdish manager, the Turkish manager, who died here after every accident. There's no other explanation for this. We don't see any good intentions here. If there's a mistake here, if there's a mistake, the government must follow it to the end. But from here, no one should try to make politics out of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0110par0208	Thank you, Master.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0111par0209	I have a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0110par0211	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0212	I believe that under the guise of a state official, which I've just said and signed under, there are terrorists in Turkey's East and Southeast Anatolian Region who have the same thing for me as the PKK. He's twisted and taunted me by using my speech as an insult to the state or to accuse the state. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0110par0213	He did, but I don't think that's a twist.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0214	That's what he said to me. Nobody said anything but me.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0110par0215	Well, if that's how you feel, Mr. Altay. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0220	Now, my time is short. I'll take my word for the law if I have to, but... Mr. Erhan, blessing the state is of no use to anyone.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0222	We bless, sir, we bless.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0223	Bless you, God bless you. If we are to bless - our sacred values are separate - first we bless man, first we bless man.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0224	Yeah, we're state officials. We're statesmen. The state is human form, organic structure.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0225	That's why what happened to this nation, what happened to this country, one. Two: There are peoples in this country.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0227	Read sociology, sociology.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0228	I'll transfer it to you from the late Solomon Demirel. I consider it a duty after Erhan Bey's speech to transfer an assessment from Süleyman Demirel.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0229	Suleiman is not a iron scientist.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0230	Think of this land as an orange. He said, Demirel. It's got slices in it, juicy, deep, intertwined.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0231	That's the name of that orange.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0232	These are Kurds, Turks, Cerkez, Georgians, Suryanis, and this is it.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0233	Here's the name of that orange.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0234	Wait a minute, Hodja! Wait a minute!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0235	He's not a iron sociologist.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0236	That's not the name of the orange. Listen, find out. This is where you come from, your nation's googism, your turkish googism.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0237	You're the Goygoy! You're the Goygoy!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0238	Goygoyism is a literature in politics.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0113par0239	Don't use harsh words. Don't use words that don't fit that bench. From now on, you'll do self-control.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0240	There's folk googity, there's organizational googity.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0114par0241	Mr. Aydın, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0242	Teacher, learn this first!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0115par0243	We return the word "Goygoy" to you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0244	If he's fasting, get out!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0116par0245	Mr. Altay, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0246	He didn't let me use my word. Now, lawmakers, this is important.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0248	Don't use words to insult us.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0249	We're all talking about brotherhood, national unity, here and there. We're saying...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0250	We're oranges!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0251	Wait a minute, Hodja, wait a minute! We say that the slices in the orange are people, and the shell outside the orange is called the Turkish nation. What's wrong with that? (CHEERING) What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0253	Did you just say that?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0254	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0255	Did you just say that?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0256	Hajji, it's a shame!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0257	I know those traitors. You said. Then say it from the stand!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0258	Of course I do.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0259	Tell me, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0260	There are a lot of terrorists in this country!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0261	Tell me their names.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0262	I'm telling you!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0263	Let's process it.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0112par0264	I'm telling you!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0118par0265	Guys, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0266	Mr. Secretary is here to be processed. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mr. Secretary, tell him to make a transaction!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0269	One from the other, one from the other. It's a shame! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It happens to people, it happens to people.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0272	The human is ours.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0273	We buried 13 of our officers just last week.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0274	Don't make them suffer!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0275	I don't know if it was an assassination or sabotage.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0276	Don't make them suffer.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0277	You're making me sick!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0117par0278	You're making me sick!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0279	This logic of yours is a pain in the ass!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0120par0280	Please, Mr. Altay... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0282	You're gonna let go of these heads.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0121par0283	Are we going to ask you about the head?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0119par0284	Racist head is not an acceptable head in this day and age.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0122par0285	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0121par0286	That's right, you're the racist! We're not racists. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're the racist! You said you were Georgian from that stand.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0123par0290	We're not racists, thank God.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0121par0291	You're the racist! We're the Turkish nation's ancestors.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0123par0292	We call him man first, brother. Whatever his race, whatever his religion, whatever his ethnicity, whatever his life condition, we call him human, and we'll keep saying that.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0124par0294	Yes, Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0123par0295	Erhan Bey said, "Let's separate the Kurdish problem from the terror in this country." But then he said, "We don't think there's a Kurdish problem."
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0125par0296	Why are you making trouble, Kurd?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0123par0297	Since the Kurdish problem has been swept under the carpet for years...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0125par0298	Why are you making trouble with those clean people?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0123par0299	...people die every day in Turkey, our martyrs go to the ground.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0125par0300	You're the problem.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0126par0301	Every problem they have is going through every aspect of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0127par0302	Let's not interfere, fellas.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0128par0303	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0129par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0127par0306	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0129par0307	He made an open taunt; we want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0127par0308	Here, I'll give you two minutes, but please let's not continue with this polemic. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0130par0311	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if only this House hadn't witnessed such an argument. Now, look, look, we've been through a process. So happy day, my friends here, I'm able to read body language. The previous speaker hit, hit, hit the Arab, and we're uncomfortable here. I mean, in the past, sir, we've sanctioned the Arabs, the Ottomans have colonized them, saying we're trying to do the same thing today with this oppressive logic, an itch, a fit -- if it's something like that -- to provoke an Arab from there. Then, sir, all the time... we're oranges, pomegranates. It's all in the definitions of people. These peoples, really, the tribes and the peoples gather, form a nation.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0131par0313	Okay, we said the same thing, what do you object to?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0130par0314	The state of the Republic of Turkey is now a national state, past that process. We're Muslims, so Muslims are like a body.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0132par0315	There's no Muslims in this country.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0130par0316	What if there's pain in any limb in the body and the other one feels it? Which one of us didn't feel any pain when that tank broke into that house? If there's a intention, let his account be called upon, let him be brought to trial, but by action -- we've already made mistakes like this, we've accepted them before -- sir, we're coming out of the cult of someone who died, and we've lost so much of their lives because they're from this sect. These things are wrong; God forbid, separatist, divisive things. We're one, we're a nation. So in Ankara, a car breaks into a shop with a brake on it, 10 of our brothers are dead, and there's a tank. If there is an intention, let the account be asked; it is as natural to ask for his account if the driver's intention is on the bus in Ankara, whose brakes have exploded. Here, for God's sake, I mean, there's no ethnic conclusion to anything that's going to happen... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...executing a medical conclusion, dissociating a separative conclusion that separates us, divides us. Now, the sentence is as follows: "Sir, we also know about government officials who are as divisive in that area as they are in the PKK."
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0320	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0130par0321	I mean, that's a serious accusation. There, there, the bones of 13 of our martyrs are sore. There, those children fight without food or water. However, if you have any information, come and give me their names on this bench, and they'll explain.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0134par0323	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0135par0325	Mr. President, I've been demanding words for a while, too. I don't think you see. It's been a while since I've had a commitment, I don't think you see.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0134par0326	I will.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0327	I know things, I know things. He accused me.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0136par0329	Give me a name.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0330	I'll tell you. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0137par0332	Yeah, but I mean...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0333	I need to give you an example, one.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0138par0334	It's also a criminal complaint.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0335	No, I won't come without saying yes.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0139par0336	Come in, come in, Mr. Altay, but let's close, please, let's finish the discussion.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0337	It's over. It's over.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0140par0338	Mr. President, there's no bullying, so on what grounds?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0139par0339	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0342	Now, I don't understand, Congressman, when I was talking to him, he teased me, he came, he said what I said. That's a good thing, so that's a good thing.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0344	Now, that's googity, look how good it is!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0345	Hajji...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0346	You're a great goy!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0347	Thank you, googism is a political literature, I don't mind, I know politics, it's your business.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0348	I know, you're cool. It doesn't suit me, I go, I go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, It suits you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0142par0349	Well, we've come to a point, let's move on.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0350	Teacher, I repeat: I mean, we've delivered the State to the terrorist organization. He said, "We regret it." Does he now clean up terrorists in the state?" He's doing it. I say that in the past, there were officials in the state who were paid from the state to scratch the Kurdish problem, who carried the rank of state as civilians or soldiers, who did business and action on behalf of the state in order to separate Turkey's Kurdish and Turk. What's the big deal? He asked for one sample, I give him one, I give him one.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0351	Pity! You're under suspicion.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0352	Teacher, don't worry, if anything happens to that government, we'll protect it before you do.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0354	Pass them, pass them. Come on, we've seen how you protect it.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0355	I'm giving you an example. I won't name a village, it's against human rights.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0143par0356	Then don't give me a human name.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0141par0357	He can't.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0358	Years ago, in a village in a county in southeast Turkey...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0143par0359	In the 1980s...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0360	...the state's security forces will raid the village, round up the villagers...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0144par0361	Is that what you were going to say?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0362	Did he or did he not force one of his villagers to perform a major ablution in the village square and then feed him his big abscess?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0144par0363	Is that what you were going to say?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0364	What if it wasn't the bastard who did this? What's not the greatest terrorist that's ever done this to this government?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0144par0365	Give me a new name.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0366	What is a traitor, an agent, a provocateur, not a terrorist who would do anything to turn the Turk against the Kurd? That's what I'm saying. What's wrong with that? What's the big deal? There's a lot of them.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0145par0368	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0144par0369	That's what you meant, the 1980s. That's great, bravo!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0370	The integrity of the state is not your responsibility, we are ours.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0146par0371	Mr. President, I'm here to tell you what happened 40 years ago...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0133par0372	Forty years, that's how the problem started. For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0146par0373	What's the point of doing politics over this, yelling over it? I mean, what's the point of blaming the government over this?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0147par0374	Do not enter into anyone's blood, nor commit sin.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0146par0375	The matter of 40 years ago.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0148par0376	Come on, cut it out.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0149par0377	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0150par0378	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0149par0379	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'm turning the system on, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0151par0380	Shall we kill these Kurds too?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0152par0381	Don't be a goy!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0153par0382	That's all the stuff, 40 years ago...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0154par0383	Here you go, Mr. Timberboy, I've turned on your microphone. Here you go, here's your open mic.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0155par0384	If they shut up, I'll start.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0156par0385	You're a scalper! You're still skulls!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0157par0386	You're bringing this to a different place!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0158par0387	Congressmans, I promised Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Please...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0159par0389	Mr. President, you do realize you're not starting to say hello.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0160par0390	You're a scalper!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0158par0391	Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0161par0392	We're nationalists.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0160par0393	We're nationalists, too.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0161par0394	People, you mean googity!
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0162par0395	Mr. Akçay, I promised Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0163par0396	Listen to me, you'll never speak ignorantly again. I'll follow up on everything.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0162par0397	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0164par0398	Don't talk! Speech! I forgot what you know.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0165par0399	You're being ignorant, bringing up the matter 40 years ago.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0162par0400	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0166par0401	There's no goodwill here, Mr. Engin. There's no goodwill here.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0167par0402	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0166par0403	Saying what happened 40 years ago here and swearing at the government has nothing to do with good intentions.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0168par0404	Now, Mr. Master, look, let's respect our friend.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0167par0405	Forty years is a long time...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0169par0406	I thought you had it today. I thought you had one. Tell me.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0167par0407	For forty years, blood has been flowing in this country for forty years.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0170par0408	Let's reject him together, but it has nothing to do with good intent to curse the government on this.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0167par0409	This blood didn't start today, it started 40 years ago.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit03spe0171par0410	Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay... I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0171par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 103°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 471. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0172par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0171par0005	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0172par0009	Thank you. In fact, there's one simple thing in front of us, and there's no need to go back 40 years. If you go to Istanbul on a Saturday, you can see Mothers or Saturday People sitting in Galatasaray Square. In the same way, you can also see peace mothers who want to live in Diyarbakir, but are not allowed to. Now, I think the most important problem for a government is not knowing how to face it. States that know how to face, governments that actually develop democracy, are also loved by their people and put elsewhere, where people feel safe.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0173par0013	Complete.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0172par0014	But in Turkey, unfortunately, who loves this country more? We can't face it, face it, face it. That's what we have to do. So you can't get anywhere by ignoring it, ignoring the Kurdish people, ignoring the atrocities committed against anyone else, and getting nowhere. We haven't arrived yet, and there's no way we'll ever get there again. So, we may be talking more freely here, maybe at an older age, but very young people are dying in this country, and we're losing very young people. To keep this up, we need to move on to another culture and listen to that sound, the sound of peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0173par0016	Thank you. The final word on the matter now belongs to the Republican People's Party Group's Denizli MP Kazim Arslan. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0174par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. I have made a commitment to ratification of the United Nations Convention on Desertization (the agreement with the Republic of Turkey). We know that this contract is meant to reduce the effects of drought and desertification on Earth. We also see major problems in many parts of the world, economic, social, and environmental. Here, we approve and approve of this agreement that will sort it out in part, which will contribute. We don't have much to say about the deal. So, I'd like to talk to you about some private issues on the agenda. My dear friends, you know, at the beginning of this week, the law on production reform came in. In this law, an effort has been made to ensure that there will be a specific two-part study of olivery. So far, we have not been able to continue a realistic discussion of this, nor a realistic discussion of reform. That's what I said in the Commission, and I'm saying it now. Olives and olive groves have nothing to do with industrialization or production support. I find it very difficult to understand that such an unrelated issue is being included in this bill because it really is an article that will bring about the end of olives and olivery. Because near one third of our country, I can't really believe that this substance, which will actually destroy our olives in the regions of the Mediterranean region, from Mardin to the Aegean region, until Marmara, even Tekirdağ, will open the way to destroying it, will try to be discussed and accepted. So, it's not enough to be sent back to the Commission, and I insist that this clause, I insist, has to be removed from this bill, and I would like to suggest that our talks should be focused on the development of industry and the support of production. My dear friends, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the problems of our Denizli. Today, when our marine is actually a developing province, we are a province that has actually stopped its development, abandoned its own destiny, stopped industrialization, and in many areas it has decreased production. Thus, as in the other future, our Denizli's problems are at a very important point. Our industrialists have important problems. In the beginning of these problems, the law on the earlier incentives of your power, number 5084, was not implemented in Denizli, and the province of Denizli was treated as foster children. Since then, development in Denizli has slowed down, industrialisation has stopped, investments have reached a point where they will no longer exist. Now, in order to run our current industry, grow our current industry, develop it, encourage it to invest in new investments, to support the industry and to win it, to ensure that it survives, especially in matters that affect its costs in a negative way, with the reductions needed in electricity, gas, fuel, both in the country and in the world markets. Now, if we don't get our industrialist and exporter to a level where we can compete, we have to see from today that our exporter will be forced, lose his clients and can't sell in the future. Now, especially because of the recent social, political and economic difficulties and turmoil in our country, we also see an industrialist, an exporter who can't really see tomorrow because of the OHL implementation. Now, at a point like this, our exporter's condition is coming to a very critical point. Kurs zigzag, he goes down, he goes up. You're looking at the contract, you're looking at it, you're making an assessment, you're making a contract, but when it comes to collecting time, we can see the exporter's damage because of the fall. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, as long as we do damage to the exporter, as long as we can't sell out, as long as we don't give the currency guarantee to the exporter, it's unlikely that our exporter will be able to protect his current market, protect and maintain his client, continue his sale. For him, there must be a solution. Now, my dear friends, the industrialist has another problem. Industrialists and businesses have not paid their debts, especially because of their investigation. Now, look, as trustees are assigned in a normal market situation, if that company is getting what it's going to get, it's going to have to pay in normal ways, whatever debt he owes to whoever he owes it to. If he doesn't pay, it's obvious that there's going to be a separate problem in the market, that there's going to be a follow-up. There has to be a solution. The trustees must also pay their debts on time, on time. My dear friends, right now, the industrialist, especially the textileist, must also be protected in the global market. We have a free trade agreement with Pakistan. I would like to point out that an agreement on textile products and ready-made clothing in particular would do a lot of damage to Turkey's market, Turkey's textiles and our Denizli textiles. Therefore, I would like to postpone the implementation of this agreement. In addition, Denizli has transportation problems. Over the years, the Sea-Adden highway hasn't been built. It will be done all the time. It is said to be done, but it cannot be done. In trade and industry, transportation is very important. If you can't afford transportation, if you have problems with transportation, there's absolutely no way that industry and trade can develop and there's no way that there's social development. Also, there is another problem that has been discussed, spoken for many years, but promised but not fulfilled: At the point of reaching port from the Marine Organised Industrial Zone, a railway was promised to be built at the point of reaching the port of Aliba. Its projects are complete, but since there are many flaws, it still hasn't been activated. I'd like to say that this iron road is to be activated immediately and that transport is to be carried out through iron, and that the cost of transportation, especially by heavy cargo, such as copper, which is heavily loaded in marine production, marble, cable, iron-like goods, and materials, can easily reach the port, facilitate exports, and especially the cost of transportation will be of great benefit. My dear friends, of course, these problems are not only unique to Denizli, but they are a problem in the industry of all Turkey. So, especially if we want to improve our industry, if we want to increase our exports, instead of really taking into account these problems that I'm saying and focusing on these issues and dealing with things like olivery, I believe we need to deal with our industry and look for solutions to their problems instead of dealing with them. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0175par0039	Thank you. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı is the first word on the behalf of the group. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0176par0046	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have made a pledge on the 471-tier Bill of Law, which is being discussed, I salute you and the public. Dear MPs, the People's Democratic Party is not only a political party, but also an ecological fighting platform. In this context, any positive effort on ecology or environment will receive our support. But it's also useful to point out that the bills you're trying to ratify here will get no more than a few worthless signatures and papers unless they're actually an act. More than 1.2 billion people in the world live on a land at risk of desertification. At the same time, 250 million people in 110 countries are directly affected by the negative consequences of desertification. Turkey's climate conditions, along with unconscious and inadequate policies, will be among the countries most affected by desertification and drought. The lack of desert in Turkey does not mean that it does not face such risks. With effective and sound solutions, this must be avoided now. Just as you people treat nature, nature gives you the same answer. Desertization and droughts will be inevitable in the framework of a mentality where the forests will be destroyed every day by capital and profit greed, where the tree-seekers can only see wood. Dear lawmakers, the website of the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs' General Directorate for Desertization and Anti-Erosion provides natural and technical reasons for desertification in our country. Under the title "technical reason," there are reasons such as deforestation, deforestation of mechases and hydrologic structures, the use of the land outside its purpose and mismanagement. But the first target in many mega projects and new projects -- especially for safety policies -- is the forests that are being destroyed. Now, members of lawmakers, there's no point in saving the day, saving the day with the sermons of Hamasi under the name of "Environment Day." We're fighting terrorism. The ecological balance has been turned upside down. So far, thousands of hectares of forests and mera have been burned to death. And now explosive materials are being detonated, supposedly underground caves, like they're taking drilling machines to the plateaus and making seismics at certain depths. But the destruction that was done -- the Minister will know it very well -- is nature's balance and nature's balance. This process will affect subterranean water sources and, therefore, the place where they emerge as springs, and will likely cause these springs to disappear or cause this water to disappear completely with new underground cracks. Therefore, the ecological balance will be disrupted and will lead to our country's desertification. In the capital, life in the forest is a resource for the economy. How can you explain the massacre of the forest in Kurdish geography while hanging banners? Protecting the environment is not by the signatures on paper that prevent desertification, but by the conscious and caring behavior that understands the environment. As long as we can't impose this consciousness on society, the signatures are of no value or importance. There's no point in signing agreements with environmental destruction while gaining momentum on the land of the forest, which has been cut off for HES, nuclear power plants, and rant. I can't find a word to say to the olive tree, which is the longest-lived olive tree in nature -- it's estimated to have lived for two thousand years -- after we've waged war. I'm also a member of the Environmental Commission. Mr. President was here. We've only had two meetings in two years, haven't we, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0177par0056	Let the Environmental Commission resign.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0176par0057	We're a society with a lot of environmental problems. Unfortunately, we've had two meetings in two years. And if you remember, Mr. President, I have made a suggestion again on this land of the topsoil. Bring me the advice the president told me, and we'll put it in a bag of legislation. From now on, we're gonna throw it in the bag and lose it. Unfortunately, we couldn't grasp the importance of this wicked land as a country. In 200 years, this soil is worth one centimeter of gold. I assure you, it may be better than gold. We're completely destroying this land with ponds, dams, constructions, or ways that we build. Here, if you remove a description of the roads that have been made, the ▪volume, you will see a terrible loss of land. Unfortunately, there's no going back to that. That land under the pond will never be used again. We should make such agreements to protect and protect the environment we live in, not to side with an international agreement. Dear lawmakers, in our country, one of the natural causes of desertification in the world is climate change. In this regard, the Paris Climate Summit decided that 195 countries had signed and that studies had to be conducted to keep global temperature rising below 2 degrees. In accordance with these decisions, the first report would take place in 2020. After the Paris Climate Summit, I asked Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, the Prime Minister of the period, the government's road map for climate change, the answer is exactly this: in terms of fighting climate change, our road map as a country for 2030 has been set for 2030 years and is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to up by 21% in 2030 years. This goal is planned to be implemented by implementing quality infrastructure projects, by exploiting new and clean technologies and more renewable energy sources and by providing energy efficiency. The fact that Turkey has set such a ambitious goal, which grows by 5 per cent economically and increases energy needs by 6 per cent each year shows its importance to fight climate change. So, what was the result today? Turkey has halted the approval process of the Paris Climate Agreement. Rather than comment on that, I'll leave it to the public. I mean, he's not struggling with his natural causes and technical reasons, but we're trying to say that we're on the side by confirming every international agreement, two by one, two by two. Of course, I believe we should talk more about this, but the policy of destruction is not only on nature, but also on law. It has been two hundred and seventeen days since the arrest of our co-chairs and lawmakers, and this Parliament must no longer carry the burden. Power and opposition are essential to parliamentary democracy. We can't talk about democracy here if power exerts pressure on the opposition by using its powers and mediating the judiciary. In particular, our party's success in the June 7, 2015 elections was not tolerated by power. Shortly after the elections, debates were launched by the President and the Prime Minister to remove the immunity by targeting our party. With this debate, the congresswoman began to have a trial against our friends because of the talks they had made. Many of these proceedings date crimes from four or five years ago. An important part of these proceedings against our MPs was prepared by prosecutors who are currently in prison because they are members of the Fetullahist structure. Our co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, has been subjected to 96 hearings. 48 of these were prepared in ten months after the June 7th elections. Prosecutors are currently in prison, preparing 29 of the 96 trials. So the proceedings, which led to the fact that Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ and other arrested MPs are currently in prison, were prepared by prosecutors who are members of the Fetulistic organisation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0178par0064	Mr. Bagpipe, thank you, but Mr. Durmaz wants to speak as soon as possible, so he came to the stand before I invited him. On behalf of the groups on the matter, the final word is for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0179par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, first and foremost, our heroic soldiers who were killed in Şırnak last week, in the east and southeast, and to the Turkish Armed Forces, to their family and to our beloved nation. Dear friends, our Minister has informed the pensioners that they will be paid on June 21st. I suppose Mr. Minister and the government think the pensioners will get their wages, pay their debts, see their grandkids missing on the holiday, and keep the money in their pocket. Dear friends, right now, there's no chance that the pensioners in Turkey will have a happy holiday with this fee. As a representative of the government, I would like to state to the Minister that, please, we would like to review that rate of increase and ask for a pension, rather than early pay for this holiday. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And also, the peasant planted in the harsh winter, and now it's time to harvest, but they're all thinking black-and-white, and none of them will ever meet what they've reaped. They're behind the government's promise to split the gas money 50-50, and they're waiting for it to follow up. In that sense, it's too much work for the Minister.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0180par0074	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0179par0075	Minister, thank you for your service to our locals. May God have mercy on our late principal, and upon his service, I might add. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, you all know the Tokat, my dear friends, at a mysterious point in Anatolia with historical, cultural and natural values, is a place of value with streams of resources, plateaus, plains. With his final decision, the government has declared these precious plains a site of status. And in that sense, we find that approach right, we support it. Before, however, organized industrial areas were established on the land of Turhal, Niksar, and Zile. From now on, we have to make a special effort to establish organised industrial areas in the middle of the adjacent counties, in areas that are off-site, please. Organised industrial zones are a locomotive in provinces like my science, but come, you see, we don't have airports for investors and businessmen to come to the Tokat. He continued at the referendum, even two planes, both Anatolianjet and Borajet, but after the referendum, when he caught the target, the airport in Tokat could not work, the plane could not land.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0181par0079	They're making a new one.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0179par0080	Our new airport is being built, and we thank you for that. However, we have witnessed something very interesting on Earth's Environment Day. In the flow of Yermamak, between Amasya and Tokat, a HOS of Goats in Turhal, the Samsun District Administration Court, has stopped by refusing to object, dear friends. But this HES - I don't know which hand reached out at the energy point -- which was actually damaging nature and environment -- which was not at the energy point -- has opened the door to a law that has been issued in order to continue the slaughter of nature -- in the final decree of the law, with the benefit of the public interest, a court ruling was denied and a vigilante. Think about it, my friends, the company that built this HES (HES) is buying the property of 10 acres of land in the bed of Yermamak, and hoarding the land that has been planted. On the one hand, when we try to protect our land, we find it extremely dangerous for the future of this country to tolerate it. Again, organized industrial areas are dear friends in a remote part of the city. For example, the Niksar Organised Industrial Zone is 17km, Turhal 12km. Emergency health stations must be set up around here. Most of the workers working here are women and textile-based employees. It's a pity our organized industrial zones have a shortage of daycare. This needs to be taken and brought to life as soon as possible. There's no fire departments in case of business accidents, daycare and other possible fires or other disasters. These are the urgent needs of organised industrial areas. Again, as you all know, the slap is in the fifth group in the primary cities of development. If you invest in the organised industrial zone, you benefit from the opportunities of the 6th group, but if you're in a field that you find in the center of the city, it's already another public factory, and you're considering it and you're making a production that doesn't harm a textile or so, you can't benefit from the 6th district. I believe it would be most beneficial for the investors to be taken into the 6th district, one of the rare provinces in the 5th district for people to benefit from these rights. Unfortunately, the public benefit of the Goat Hesse, which I just described, was ignored by the government at the airport in Tokat. Besides, it'll be over in about five, five and a half years, and the airport will be over in no time when it's rushed to publicisation. And in that sense, I think that the Slapper's request should be considered. Again, friends, approximately 493 dwellings have been waiting at the foot of the castle of Tokat for four years under disaster. The social homes where they can live in healthy conditions are not too high a square foot, nor do these people have high expectations. Instead of the immediate treasures of their neighborhood, which they live in, they need to be built and quickly rid of the dangers of life and safety in their homes in a possible wind, in a rain at night, as well as of a city that is forgotten by the oldest and most historical site of the Tokat. To get the value this place deserves, it needs to be transferred to a few of the official institutions trapped in the province to help re-enact the activities, the activities of the four, five neighborhoods here, the tradesman waiting for a job to pass. Again, there are over 100 roads that pass through Tokat, and Taşova, and Erbaa, and Niksar, and Reshadia, my dear friends, but sadly we have lost dozens of lives in the intersection at the entrance to Reshadia. A very short time ago, two TEDAS officials, who went on to repair a possible electrical failure, were also recently exposed to an accident by a retired teacher. With today's technology, it's not that difficult to build a subgate on such a heavy road, but I draw your absolute attention to this insensitivity of slaps and problems. The plague and responsibility of every lost soul is hard to make up for, dear friends. Again, Tokat is one of the most population-lost provinces in ten years when he talks about the progression of Turkey. With the loss of the TEKEL Cigarette Factory, 45,000 tobacco manufacturers were forced into the various provinces of Turkey, and Istanbul had the fourth largest population, according to TÜİK results. Now, I'm saying that having the Turhal Sugar Factory in the privatisation pool waiting for the rest of the city to get out of this pool as soon as possible will give the Slapper some comfort. Dear friends, again, Tokat, as you all know, is the center of vegetables and fruit; you know, when we sit at the table with Russia, we call it a tomato, and here's a different city that grows in Kazova, Erbaa, Niksar plains, and other fruits. With the approach of the international age vegetable and fruit trading centre, the establishment of an absolute state of a region first in Tokat, making the added value of these products high with packaging facilities will at least stop the blood loss in the area, and I thank you all for listening patiently. But I invite those who come to Tokat to eat the Tokat kebab. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0182par0090	Thank you. We've received your invitation, and as all lawmakers, I hope that one day you'll be welcome at the Tokat. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0183par0096	Mr. President, I'd like to share with you something that our other Deputy Leader Ahmet Yıldırım has been transmitting, and I've seen on social media for five and a half years: In Uludere, Roboski, the families go to the cemetery every Thursday and pray, and they say, "We want justice." They've been doing this every Thursday for five and a half years, but for the first time today, the entrance to the cemetery has been surrounded and blocked by soldiers. Despite this transmission, we'll be in the Ministry. It's said that the same obstruction continues. Please, if you make an attempt against Şırnak Governorate and this search for justice that families have done for five and a half years without disturbing public order...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0182par0098	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0183par0099	We'd appreciate it if the families weren't interrupted by this quest for justice and prayer. I wanted to convey this to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0182par0101	Thank you. I'm reading the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The UN Convention on Fighting Desertification of the United Nations Convention No. 471 is based on a clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Convention on Desertization Agreement in accordance with the Establishment of Regional Co-ordination Units in Turkey: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the 4th place of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, where the Agreement for Co-operation between the Qatar State Government and the Approvement of Notations is in order. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 5th place, in accordance with the Agreement on Marine Transport between the Qatar State Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. When the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Qatar warn the International Charter of Shipmens Education, Documentation and Shifting Standards between the Government of Turkey and the State of Qatar, we will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks between the Ministry of Environment and Forest of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Transport between the Iraqi Republic and the Ministry of Weatherology and Meteorological Research, where it is appropriate to ratify Covenant Opposition, the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 358 rows. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ENGLISH REPUBLIC REPLICATION AND THE ORMAN REPLICATION OF THE IRAK REPLICATION IN THE ARASY OF METEOROLOGY AND METEOROLOGIC DETECTIONS The approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forest between the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Transport of the Iraqi Republic of Iraq in the fields of Meteorology and Meteorological Research was approved on October 15, 2009 in Baghdad. Those who don't accept the 1st article... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 2nd Amendment is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of the Ministry of Environment and Forests of the Republic of Turkey, 358 rows, and the draft of the Dair Law on Approvement between the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Iraq, on the fields of Meteorological Studies, on the fields of Covenant Containment: [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Kuwait in Higher Education and Scientific Research. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 391 rows. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. TO CONTINUE THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION OF ENGLISH COMMUNITY TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF CONTROL IN THE CENTURY OF CENTURY AND THE AGENTAL RESEARCH MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Kuwait government, signed in Ankara on 29 April 2013, has been approved. I submit to your votes that those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the 1st Amendment. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give you one minute to vote on the entire bill.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0184par0170	President, read these rows of numbers, so no one knows what you're voting for.
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0185par0171	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-06-08sit04spe0182par0172	Reading, reading row numbers. I'll read it again when I'm in the beginning. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Agreement of Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey 391 and the Government of the Kuwaiti State in Higher Education and Scientific Research Area has been approved as a result of an open vote: ▪ The number of votes used: 205 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Gambia, which is ranked nine. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 394 rows. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. CONSIDERING THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION IN THE ACTIVITY OF THE OCCIDENTIAL REPUBLICATION OF TURISM IN THE ACTION OF COMMUNITY TO GAMBIA MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gambia, signed on September 24, 2012, was approved. All those in favor... those who don't... are considered item one. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Agreement on the Co-operation Act between the Government of Republic of Turkey 394 and the Government of the Republic of Gambia in the Tourism Area is in line with a clear vote: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Regional Radiocommunication Conference (RRC-06) of the 10th ranked Regional Radiocommunications Conference (RRC-06) for the Approval of Result Decisions. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 345 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't... Sustained. DISCOVERED BY THE FINAL DECISION OF THE UNIVERSE RADYOKON CONFORMATION VERC-06) MADDE 1- (1) was approved with statements and reservations of the results of the Regional Radiocommunication Conference (RRRC-06) held in Geneva from 15 May 16 June 2006. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... the matter is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... the matter is accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Regional Radiocommunication Conference No. 345 (RRC-06) As a result of an open vote on the adoption of Result Decisions: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 11th, in accordance with the Constitutional Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Report, in accordance with the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 393 rows. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PRODUCTION OF THE TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNICATION OF TUNIS REPUBLICATION CONTINUE AND PRODUCTION IN THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSES The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Tunisia on June 6, 2013, was approved between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 393 in the open vote: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Housing and the Foreign Affairs of the Iraqi Republic between the Ministry of Housing and Construction, and with the Covenant Zaptı and Agreement Adjudication of Amendments to Agreement Notes. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 350 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. RETURN REPUBLICATION AND CONTINUATION OF THE REFERENCE OF THE IRACATION OF IRACY AND REVOLUTION IN THE REFERENCE OF CONTINUATION AND CONTROLATION IN THE AGE OF CONTROLATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 15, 2009 in Baghdad, with the Ministry of the Republic of Turkey, and the Ministry of Housing and Construction between Iraq and the Ministry of Housing and Construction. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor. Those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... the matter is accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Turkish Ministry of Public Works and Housing and the Iraqi Republic's Ministry of Housing and Construction Agreement in the Consolidation and Reconstruction Area [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the 13th Republic of Turkey's Government and the Government of the Republic of Greece between the Ipsala-Kipi Border Transition Zone between the two countries in which the Position of a Second Highway Border crossing Bridge and the Approvement of the Protocol to Be Approved. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 377 rows. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. There's been a second policy in the country, and there's a second policy in the country, and there's a second policy in the country, and there's a second policy in the country, and there's a law on the rule of the country, and there's a law on the rule of the country, and there's a law on the rule of the country. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 4 April 2014 in Thessaloniki, and the Protocol Regarding the Position of a Second Highway Border crossing bridge between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Ipsala-Kipi Border Transition Zone. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Between the Government of Republic of Turkey 377 and the Government of the Republic of Greece's Ipsala-Kipi Border Transition Zone between the two countries, the position of a Second Highway Border crossing bridge and the ratification of the Protocol to Cross over: [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. Since there is no other work to be done on our agenda, according to the decision taken, talks on whether or not Gensoru Öluk Çelik (11/16) will be brought up on the agenda of the primary Gensoru Örgesi (11/16) and other tasks from the bill and proposals and commissions came to order from the commissions on Monday (June 12, 2017) at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you luck, I wish you good weekends, God bless you, good evening.
