tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0001par0001	Reverend President, I am opening the second year of our Parliament's Second Legislature of the 26th Year of Legislature, the precious MPs of our Veteran Assembly, the honored guests, the worthy members of my saint and necipation nation in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, my dear nation. The Honorable President has honored our Grand Council by taking his place in the audience box. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Now the Instular March will be read, and I invite you to read the Istiklal March. [[Identical March]] Thank you. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we are moving to talks on the basis of the meaning and significance of the July 15th Democratic Day of the National Union, under the decision made in the 109th Union of the General Assembly, dated June 17, 2017. Reverend President, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, which is gathered on the 1st year of July 15, 2016, to remember and not forget this attempt, by traitors who want to destroy our state, to disband our nation. I give thanks to my noble nation who stand in the squares on a democracy watch to keep the blessed memory of our martyrs alive. I remember with mercy and gratitude and gratitude our saints who never hesitated to sacrifice their lives to break the hands of our union and our receptacle, and I remember them all with the Fatihes. I call on our wounded, our veterans, to heal and to live a healthy, long life.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0002par0016	Weren't there MPs from the CHP that night? It's his father's farm! This is Ismail Agha's farm!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0001par0017	On the 15th of July, the brave sons of our nation landed in the squares and walked without blinking, claiming our government and our sovereignty. By shielding his chest with a moon-star flag, men and women, old and young, they have proclaimed Turkey's unity and integrity throughout the world. Our nation has shown that it absorbs democracy, that it comes together in one fist when necessary in national matters. As it is known, democracy is derived from the words "demos" and "kratos," the rule of the people, or the rule of the people. The people put their will in the chest. It's a symbol of democracy, the chest is everything in democracy; it's not the element, it's the original. Despite some cuts in Turkey, we can base our democratic life on the First Amendment in 1876. Today, Turkey is continuing with a democratic system and will continue, and July 15th, Democracy and the Day of the National Union has once again demonstrated it. As stated in the Constitution, our Turkey is a state of law based on social, social, social, secular, freeing every idea and belief. Reverend President, the esteemed MPs, on July 15th, as a nation, we have successfully tested each institution and organization. Our Parliament, the representative of the nation, has also given us a test. The 26th term, which you are in, has done its part well to face the blow. By standing here against the low blowers, holding our coven open under bombs and bullets, he showed how loud the people's voices are and his will will will not accept shackles. Traitors who have infiltrated every institution to reach their dark ends have also targeted our nation, the nation's Parliament that night. They've been flying over us for hours, hailing bullets from helicopters, planes, bombs, tanks. As they tried to scare, destroy the nation's MPs, 107 members of the General Assembly, which we opened with 27 MPs, joined with their will of steel, and we kept our Parliament open and we didn't leave until the treasonous coup attempt was over. A man drowns not because he fell into the water, but because he can't come out of the water. That night, we three party members didn't struggle in the water, we talked about how to get to safety, we came up with common will. History has taught us that those without courage will not succeed. Courage isn't about not being afraid, it's about overcoming fear. Our nation has paid a heavy price for the fact that politics did not stand upright in the face of previous coups and relics. That night, as soon as I saw the coup attempt started on television, I decided to open the House immediately without demand from anywhere. I've come from the Presidential House to Parliament, and I've informed my fellow MPs who have called me that I will open the House, and on Saturday -- one day later -- July 16th, 14th. I used my authority to call a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We prepared invitations and ads, and I went to Çankaya, to the Prime Minister's office. We had an exemplary meeting. We announced the statement by the three parties at night, as a partner, with the signatures of four parties holding talks in parliament. As you know, Friday is not the meeting of the General Assembly. Lawmakers are in their constituency four days a week. In Ankara, and in nearby cities, they ran to Parliament. And those who weren't here did what they had to do in the provinces where they were, and they ran the squares. 81 MPs from the Justice and Development Party -- 18 of them women -- have attended 16 MPs from the Republican People's Party and 10 from the National Movement Party. When we compare the number in parliament, we see that there's a turnout between 22 and 17 percent, and on a holiday day like that, and at night, this turnout is a tremendous test. By the way, I'd like to express the courage of lady lawmakers, each showing that they're Nene Hatun. (EC PARTY and cabinet order) So I congratulate you again and again, not on my desire to show privilege, positive discrimination to the ladies, but also on that day's enthusiasm, excitement. But the Nene Chicks aren't alone, the Milkyman Imams are here. All of us, all of us, were the Imam of the House, Nene Hatun. Of course, our MPs, our ministers, attended the meeting with the same courage and courage, their opinions, their views. When my fellow clerks came to take part in the Presidential Court, I told them it would be more appropriate for the group's vice presidents of the current political parties to be on the Court. I've invited Mr. Mehmet Mush, Mr. Free Special, Mr. Erkan Akçay from the People's Party of the Republic, Mr. Erkan Akçay from the National Movement Party. In the meantime, I'd like to transfer an anecdote. We sat down, and Free Bey didn't have a jacket then, he sat down with his shirt, we were with three groups of vice presidents and me.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0003par0031	You forgot to put your picture, your picture, your picture on the album! There's no photo!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0001par0032	Sir?
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0004par0033	No, Mr. President. Why didn't you put his picture in? There's only the AKP!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0005par0034	See these, see these!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0006par0035	Don't hear it, don't hear it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0007par0036	The photo is in the hearts, in the hearts.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0008par0037	Ismail Agha's farm!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0009par0038	Have a seat. On a day like this, on a day like this, there will always be one, and be patient today. Yes, sir, it'll go over again. Mr. Ahmet Gündoğdu has come, said to Free Bey: "Mr. Freeman, soon the TV people will come and shoot. Let's get you into this: I'll give you my jacket. He said, Mr. Free Hayhay. He took it, and he gave a nice speech, and he said, "There's a nation's vision shirt in destiny."
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0010par0041	Metaphorically.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0009par0042	We must never forget this consciousness: Yes, we can be separated as parties. Why? The opinions, the prescriptions are separate, but we're on the same wrist, and when necessary, we come together in a fist. July 15th is a proof of that, August 7th is a proof of that. We will always make this proof, we will not scream, we will not fight, but we will surely express our opinions. We have landed in the bunker below our building with MPs, ministers of our three parties, deputies, advisers, councilmen, and members of the press who had been in parliament in the previous period on the fall of dust upon the ranks of the General Assembly, and there we have prepared a joint statement by the three parties. By noon on Saturday, our fourth party signed the manifesto and became a four-way declaration. Resistance against great betrayal has earned our Turkish Grand National Assembly the second-time title of veteran. They continue to organise the places where the bomb was dropped in parliament as the Museum of Democracy, and the road to democracy. I would like to repeat my thanks to the representatives of our nation in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this night, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called the nations to the square. (EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers) The invitation of our nation to the squares has filled the squares of national unity and unity. Without the party difference, everyone did their part to save our country from this dark night, the parties and everyone else did their best. The answer to the question of how to be a leader was given in the most defiant way. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Our beloved nation continued their democracy watch for days. A spectacular rally was held on 7 August with 5 million people attending Istanbul Yenikapi Square.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0011par0050	180,000, 180,000!
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0009par0051	Our President, as Speaker of Parliament, I, the President of the EC PARTI, the Prime Minister, the President of the Main Opposition Party, the President of the National Movement Party, and the Chief of General Staff have spoken at the rally. With the prayer of our President of Religious Affairs, our rally for Democracy and Martyrs ended. With the painting that our nation has put forth, the national unity and unity have shown their consciousness against friends and enemies. Among those who have done their best to prevent the coup are our true army members, especially our Chief of Staff, Mr. Hulusi Akar, who raises the nation with floods, and we have religious officials from mosque minarets who bring their voices to the heart of the nation. We thank them, too, in the person of Professor Mehmet Gormez, our president of the Religious Affairs. Our civil society organizations, our unions, our universities, our visual and written press have shown a remarkable attitude. These are the good things, the good things, the good things. There's a saying that a plague is born of a thousand counsels. But we won't face plagues anymore, we won't meet in the name of God, and Turkey won't face the coups again. Because no movement that doesn't allow itself to be accepted by the nation has been proven to be the presence of a democracy in the nation and it absorbs it. The hopes of the altars that prepare the plot for the coup attempt will remain in their hope. There will be no more government crisis, short-term governments and reductions in Turkey; there is a new system. Society has completely absorbed democracy. The one who received a memo will not be able to say, "I went to the head of the microphone and put my hand on it." The period of coups in Turkey is over, Turkey has suffered a lot of coups, and that would be its last example. After the democratic life of 1950, the number of coups that had remained hidden, in effect, or in the event of an attempt was 16; on July 15th, they reached the 17th, but they were buried in history, and Turkey will no longer face any more plagues. Other than that, those who want to spread rumors, those who want to create air, those who are trying to disrupt our unity and integrity are the altars that want to stop Turkey from improving and the community is aware of these games, they will not fall into those traps. At this point, legal regulations, efforts to create national spirit and consciousness are beyond all recognition. We have martyrs, of course we're sorry, but martyrdom is leaving this mortal life, laughing at the land for its flag, for its country, and for its sacred values. What did our national poet Mehmet Akif put in his poem to the martyrs of Chanakkale: Don't ask me, O martyr son of martyr, don't ask me, O Prophet, he has opened his mouth to you. Our poet, our thinker, says what the late Virtue Whiteite says: Death is neither far from us nor death. We have not tasted death or immortality. Death is nothing to us. Yes, we have 250 martyrs in Ankara, 2 in Marmaris, 98 in Istanbul. They are those who will go straight to Paradise and will intercede for their relatives. To each we pray for Our mercy, and for our family and for our people to be patient. And we remember with great gratitude and thanks all our martyrs who drank the sherbet of testimony, and walked from Bedir, and from Çanakkale, and from Sarkamis. Again, my condolences to the family of our martyrs. We have 2,193 gases, one of which is AK PARTY Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu and his wife. They're badly injured, they've had surgeries, and, uh, thank God, they're in good health now. 14 of our officers were injured in the first attack on our House again. Our police have put up a hell of a fight, and I congratulate them one by one. A number of attempts have been made to land from the helicopter at the Dikmen Gate, both Chankaya and Dikmen Gate, and the gun has been fired. Our police had to deal with it, the traitors couldn't get off. I'd like to take this opportunity to celebrate and thank my fellow police officers, the security forces in our total Turkey, the law enforcement forces. May God never show such days again, nor let our people perish. Our program will continue. I'd like to thank you for coming to the meeting. Tonight, from our First Melis building in Ulus, we will march to Parliament, where we will embrace our citizens again, and listen to our President's speech. We are Turkey, we are not divided, we cannot divide, we do not divide, we will continue our journey with all our might. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] How well our dear poet Nurullah Young means: Our rebellion, which says: "Stop the oppressors, stop" is one of ours -- or our saga, which is the tomb of the giants, which is ours -- by the name of God. As I complete my words, I give you all a blessing again on behalf of all our martyrs. Lord, don't ever show such wicked days to our land again, and let our state live for a long time. Let's all live together in a Turkey, which, in the sense of brotherhood, can speak anyone's mind, but never gives a price for fighting and noise, and let our House achieve many more successes. I salute you again, and wish you good work. May God's peace and mercy and blessings be upon us. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Congressmans, I will make a ten-minute commitment to the group heads of political party groups represented by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, according to the decision. I read the order: Vice President of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, Prime Minister, İzmir MP Mr. Buli Yıldırım. (AS/TK) Republican People's Party President and Parliamentary Group Chairman İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. (HPP's applause) Instead of the chairman of the People's Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Deputy Leader of the Group and Mush MP Ahmet Yıldırım. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) President of the National Movement Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, Osmaniye MP Mr. State Bahçeli. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The first statement belongs to the Deputy Chairman of Justice and Development Party and the Chairman of Parliament Group, Prime Minister, İzmir MP Mr. Buli Yıldırım. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Yıldırım.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. President (PARTI and Council of Ministers) who defends his nation, his flag, his country, his state for his life (Applause from the ranks of the EC Parliament), Mr. President of the national sovereignty office, the highly valued members of our Veterans Parliament who claim the trust of national will to their death, my dear nation, I respectfully salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Today is July 15, 2017, the Day of Democracy and the National Union. It's been a whole year since Turkey's darkest, longest night was turned into a nation's epic invasion by a bright morning. If we can get back together here today, we owe it to 250 heroes to our martyrs, 2,193 to our hero gas, and to the great Turkish nation, the country is grateful to you. Mr. President, Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, July 15th is the day this nation shows its enemy the apocalypse. July 15th is the day of the storming of tanks by mad Turkish believers. July 15th is the day when people melt weapons with their bare hands against an invasion movement. July 15th is the day a nation is taught how to protect a country. July 15th is the day when the national will is bombed and the national will cannot be surrendered to seven heves. The Istiklal March, which began that night, was rewritten. My people were not afraid, for victory was for those who were not afraid. And it came to pass that night, that my people roared, and were floods; and they went over and over, and they rent the mountains, and they were not able to reach the deep, and they overflowed into the squares. That night, with the call of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, he launched a second struggle for salvation to protect the nation of millions, its flag, its country, its state. On the night of July 15th, we experienced the most intense betrayal. On the night of July 15th, we wrote the most beautiful of epics. The prophet said to Hamzaya the Lord, that walking frightens the death. That night, these people walked like the Holy Hamza. His friend's reputation has given fear to his enemy. This country is like my faithful breast. It's for those who say, "My heart is full of faith." This country belongs to those who stand as mountain ranges in the black bosom of the land. It is for those who go about in the ways, without looking back, and who strike as lightning, and who run at the limits. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, there is a certain price to be paid, not one, but a thousand times. May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, February 28, April 27th; these days are a disgrace to Turkish democracy's history, but July 15th is different from all others. For the first time, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not submit to the coups of the beloved Turkish nation, enough is enough! The word belongs to the people. He said. He sat through a ten-year battle of one night and cried out to the world that this land would be free and independent. Wasn't this the Veteran Assembly, who defended his homeland in the Battle of Salvation, either the will or the death? On July 15th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey again deserved to be a veteran for the second time in its fight for independence, either will or death. Of course, a veteran nation is worthy of a Veteran Assembly. That night, when this great roof was shaken under the bombs, our MPs put aside their party identities, all of whom claimed democracy, our country. Adeta died in a war, a democracy watch, a national will attack, he didn't leave the House under the bombs. And my people did not leave their sovereignty to the enemies, but took care of the Coven that night. Every anniversary of July 15th, the same spirit must be met under the same roof, just as our MPs were inadvertent to the national will that night. On that night, the nation's heroic sons ran to their death with flags, with the voice of God, with the voice of God, with the crowd, with the floods. There was no Ahmet, no Mehmet that night; there was no Ayþe, no Fatma; the name of 80 million was country, flag, flag. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Did those who couldn't get past Çanakkale, in 1915, think that they would cross the Bosphorus of Istanbul in 2016? You thought you could destroy the Parliament of the people you couldn't occupy in 1920? In that case, you've never met this holy nation. Just remember, the more you pricks, the more we're gonna be brothers. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) The more you slap the cuffs, the more we're bound. As long as you're traitors, we'll bring out more heroes. On the 15th of July, the descendants of the heroes of Çanakkale were worthy of their grandfather. How we have become worthy of the land of Asia Minor. God bless us all, our nation. I consider it an honor to be a Turk that night, a pride to be a Muslim. I keep my ranks under the moon-star flag, not the plenty of stars. He has done according to the will of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. (EC PARTY and Council of Ministers) This state is now fulfilling the will of Ali, who says, "Forgive everything, but never forgive those who betray your country." These villains will certainly receive the harshest punishment they deserve within the law. Mr. President, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one with the nation of the Republic of Turkey, the state, the army. Despite this fact, the dark surroundings of those who have been burned by a dream of separation have once again been lost by the common sense of this nation. The Turkish army is much stronger today than it was before July 15th. The Turkish army is the army of the saints. Let it not be forgotten that Turkey is a state of every faith, every sect, every culture. In 15 years, we will not be able to stop a growing Turkey with its economy, freedom and democracy, with its huge service and works. Mr. President, Mr. President, Honourable MPs, those who can't feel the spirit of July 15th, those who are not worthy of the spirit of Yenikapi, they can only be with controlled souls. Mr. President, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am proud to be a son of this nation. Once again, I bow before the great Turkish nation, bowing before them once more, honoring and welcoming my nation, who held the national will to its death. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] For his people, for his flag, for his country, for all our martyrs who have willingly given their lives for his state, on July 15th, we also have mercy, gratitude, thanks, and long lives to our veterans. May God never let such a dark night live in our country again. [[(Amin.) (Amin) (Amin) (Amin) (Amin) (Amin) ……]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0013par0099	Thank you very much, Mr. Lightning. Now, the chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu belongs to Bey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0014par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are on the 1st anniversary of the coup attempt made by the esteemed MPs on the night of July 15, 2016. On the 1st anniversary of the coup attempt, I cherish all our martyrs who played the most important role in the failure of the coup, and give my deepest respect and love to our veterans. I express my gratitude as a member of our Veterans' Veterans Congress, who have resisted the coup attempt with our people. On the other hand, it has been an honor for us to have our Veteran Assembly and our army, as well as our people, to hold our parliamentary democracy against the terrorist organization. For this reason, I ask God's mercy to all the martyrs of the Turkish Armed Forces and the Security Agency, who have contributed to the coup attempt with their lives, and to our veterans, I offer my thanks. One of the most bloody and sneaky terrorist organizations in the world, the failure of the coup attempt on our country's democracy has been achieved by our people's total ownership of our parliamentary democracy. Dear MPs, two basic conditions must be met so that Turkey will never face coup attempts again. The first is the development and deepening of democracy, which is the cleansing of the coup law of our legal system. I also stated that on July 16, 2016, at the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second is that the coup attempt is placed on the table with all its dimensions and all the dark spots are lit up and the facts are brought to light. Dear lawmakers, I regret to inform you that the work of the Research Commission on the night of July 15th, under this roof, has not been reflected. By coming to the Commission for almost all details of the coup attempt, the Chief of Staff and the Deputy Chief of Staff of the MIT have been unable to inform representatives of the national will, representatives of the national will, or members of the Commission elected from among you. It is not acceptable for these two valued bureaucrats to come to the Commission and give information to the Commission in writing rather than to answer the questions of you precious representatives. The fundamental question is: What reason was it that the Chief of Staff and the Undersecretary of the MIT were prevented from coming to the Commission established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? (HPP) This painting is a fundamental issue for all of us in the respect of Parliament. Unfortunately, Parliament failed to use its free will on this matter, setting the stage for the enlightenment of many dark places. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have now stated in a paragraph sent to the Commission by the MIT Undersecretary on May 22, 2017 that the group could make a coup attempt in the previous notes shared with foreign authorities, but that a clear intel on the date of the coup attempt has not been reached in the Turkish Armed Forces. Then the affidavits were filed, and it turned out that MIT had done some intel on it in the military as well, but I'm not going to go into that for now. This explanation is problematic in many ways. First of all, as of 2012, as of 2012, as of 2012, it is registered in the archives of the state, where the Fair Orphan is the Air Force imam, and everyone knows it, and he is not a righteous orphan. Two: Kemal Batmaz, Hakan Çiç, Nurettin Orçç, and Harun Binish, who hold coup meetings, are not only soldiers. Three: Most of the coup meetings were held in private homes outside the Turkish Armed Forces. Four: Fair Orphan 2 is released with cell phones and a GPS device. The property of the GPS device is that it is a space-based communication system that provides space and time information in all weather conditions with four or more satellites on Earth. He was released with this system and two phone calls. Let's say he's been released, why hasn't the National Intelligence Agency followed the Fair Orphan? Five, the more grave one: the coup, the dust, but one person, Ali Ihsan, the Prime Minister, goes to the police station and visits the Fair Orphan, where he was arrested, where he was taken into custody. Tell me, a person, a prime minister's advisor, a dust dust, a police officer, a police station, an army, everything, but this person walks to see the Fair Orphan. Therefore, we are not satisfied with the information provided by the MIT. I believe this General Assembly is not satisfied either. On July 15th, there's a lot of discussion about whether or not there was information about the coup. I'll put the most concrete information in front of you. When this comes to the media, an official from the Joint Chiefs of Staff calls Mehmet Yilmaz, the valuable columnist of the Hurriyet newspaper, saying: "The MIT gave us information but did not inform us of the coup. He said some would be kidnapped. My dear friends, but then he's the D.A. K. He applies to the information of the person we call, O. K. Invited and informed. Now I'm reading you a passage from that report, and they asked me what could happen. He says. K. I also said that there could be major activity, even coup activity. The prosecutor asks again: did you say that there might be violence? The answer is exactly this -- again -- is that I remember using the word "strength" very well. My dear friends, these are the issues that need to be discussed. All details must be revealed so that Turkey will never face a coup attempt again. (CHP cheers) That's the second time he's ever been a prosecutor. He wants to apply for the statement of K., but come and see him. K. He'll be recruited by the national intelligence team, and the prosecutor can't appeal to that information. Why? Dear MPs, the main indictment has been filed, a group of prosecutors have been removed before the indictment is over. Why? Whose information did these prosecutors want to apply for and are relieved of their duties? Ask the Minister of Justice, please ask all the ministers who run this country, including Mr. President: Why were these prosecutors removed from their posts, the prosecutors who wrote the main indictment? My dear friends, I'd like to bring you up to speed on one more thing. When I brought up the Fair Orphan case several times, the MIT made a statement, the National Intelligence Agency. I read part of the statement exactly as follows: From May 2016, from May 2016 to work -- with raw data on work -- with raw data on work -- all information -- forensic authorities, security units -- who is the legal authority? Prosecutors, I guess. Who are the security units? The police department must be the gendarmes. The authorities are sitting in the back, and one of them is sitting in the palace. These are the relevant authorities. It is shared simultaneously. The MIT tells the public that it is shared simultaneously. What is the question? The question is, why was the operation scheduled for July 15th? They told you in May, take a look. They said, "They're the people." They said, "They've taken over the state." They said, "If you're operating, do it." They said, "Do it." But they're waiting. Mr. President, we have 250 martyrs and 2,193 gases. At least in memory of them, all the details of the July 15 coup attempt must be revealed, that no one, no one of our martyrs' blood should remain on the ground. But it seems that those details are being avoided. Just after the coup attempt, we pointed out three important points, valuable lawmakers, pointing to three important points. One: let's settle in law. We said, in law. That's what's best for the government. Two: Turkey must be introduced into the process of rapid normalisation. We said. Three: we can create a strong democracy. This is a very important opportunity. We've come to terms with democracy all over Turkey. Let's just say. The road map of the coup attempt to eliminate all traces and effects of the coup attempt and the fight against the coups was definitely going through these three phases. Unfortunately, in a year's time, all the things that need to be done, all the things that shouldn't be done, all the things that need to be done, all the things that need to be done, all the things that need to be done. The reckoning has gone beyond the law, and the lengths of the investigations have been blocked by interference in the judiciary. Justice has been destroyed. Instead of investigating the coup investigation, the Commission has attempted to avoid responsibility. Instead of rapidly normalizing, a permanent state of emergency has been established. This Veteran Parliament, which resists the bombing under the bombs, has been shut down, taken away from its authority. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the opportunity to create a powerful democracy has been wasted by learning a lesson from the climate of reconciliation created by the spirit of July 15th. The most important requirement for success and permanence in combating the coup is the revelation of the political foot of the coup. However, it is consciously blocked by efforts to expose the political foot. The coup attempt can't really be fought until the coup attempters, supporters of the coupgers, and those who place the coupgers at the most sensitive points of the state are accounted for. (HIP rows, "Bravo," applause) The central organisation of the coup did not reach that power in a single day. Supporters of the Turkish Armed Forces must be discovered as their patriotic, decent, republican staff is purged and opening the front of the GERPs. In the judiciary, the security, the bureaucracy, the alliances that made this gang the dominant force should be displayed. In order for the 15th of July to never happen again, it is imperative that we learn from this exemplary event and keep the state out of the trap of other dangerous alliances. The antidote to this poison is to hold tight to our common values, the democratic, secular republic and the social law state. My respects to all of you, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0015par0124	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. Now, it belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Speaker of Parliament Group and Mr Ahmet Yıldırım Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0016par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on the anniversary of the July 15 coup attempt, I salute our co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, who are in captivity, our deputies, our mayors, our party leaders, arrested journalists, and still on behalf of the HDP Parliament Group and General Centre, who have been victimised under the State of Emergency. [[Applause from HDP rows]] In fact, if they weren't imprisoned by political operations before and after November 4th, our Co-Chairs Mr. Yüksekdağ and Mr. Demirtaş were leaders to address the bench, not to greet them. Again, at the beginning of my speech, a year ago, I strongly condemn the July 15 coup attempt aimed at this people and democratic politics, and ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives while resisting the coup. I'd like to say that we expect the coupters and murderers to be punished with a fair trial as soon as possible, like all our people. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the history of the coups of our country, which are about to complete its 100th year. The country, which spent the first quarter of 100 years of history in a single-party period from democracy, spent the next 70 years with countless military, civilian, political, judicial, modern and postmodern coups. 27 May 1960, 22 February 1962, 12 March 1971, 12 September 1980 military interventions, as well as numerous coups and initiatives and initiatives aimed at civil and democratic politics, which I cannot count all of them here on 2 March 1994, 28 February 1997, 27 April 2007 and 15 July, 20 July, 4 November 2016. It is evident that these blows are too common in any country with a little bit of rule of law and the claim of democratic principles, that the country's foundations, its understanding of governance and sociological layers cannot be addressed by the problems of bonding with the state. It must not be forgotten that discussing and covering the conditions of the coupters or those who attempt to do so will also prepare the conditions of the new coup, without any discussion of their ulterior motives, their unclean spirit, and their anti-democracy. The coup attempt on July 15th was also brought to the coup attempt by the coup d'etats to demonstrate the opportunities presented by the political power, the privileges granted, the immunity brought in and the commitments given by the non-trial. Given the parliamentary logs of the year before the July 15 coup alone, the political power has been warned by our party's oratories on this bench countless times about the mechanics of a coup, potential and the possibility of closeness. We have repeatedly stated that the conflict that was launched before the July 15 coup attempt, with the end of the solution process, and that the nationalist, conservative alliances, which entered political power, would not bring any good to the country. We insisted that such an atmosphere would keep the country within the impact mechanics, that economic, social, political, diplomatic, diplomatic crises would collapse. The joint declaration, signed by all parties last July 16th, highlighted democratic politics and strengthened parliamentary democracy. On that day, Turkey branded anti-corruption opposition as a political institution, which was registered to respect the different views of political parties. On July 16th, our party stated that the blows from this bench could not only be military. But immediately the coup was seen as a blessing and the State of Emergency was declared. Once again, the blows can't only be carried out by military epaulets. In the history of the world, there are numerous examples of tied coups aimed at democratic functioning. Sadly, the last year of Turkey is one of them. But in those days, as of today, the political power, which is based on monotheism, had granted unlimited powers in Kurdish anti-Kurdish policy to transform the entire command of coupters into criminal machines. As of July 20th, another coup was carried out in this country along with the State of Emergency. Our next co-chairs and deputies have been arrested; trustees have been appointed to our municipalities, journalists have been arrested, numerous public workers who oppose July 15 coup attempt have been fired. On July 15th, many media agencies and NGOs who boldly broadcast against the coup were shut down with the KHK freaks. All of these people who were persecuted had two things in common: First, these individuals and institutions were anti-plots; the second, they were not from the AKP. Even this is an indication of how the OHR and the KHK are being used by a single coup attempt. However, the July 15 coup attempt presented significant opportunities for the common position of parliament and all our people, but instead of eliminating these low threats and democratizing our country, they were used to impose personal authority and were seized by a civil coup against Parliament and the judiciary. Our co-Chairs and lawmakers were taken hostage by direct instructions from the government, and in violation of law and ethics, our Co-Chair Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and MP Nursel Aydoğan have been demoted. Again, despite the fact that our Co-Chair, Mr. Seoultin Demirtaş has been under arrest for eight and a half months, he has not even been brought before the court and his testimony has not been taken, a final sentence has been passed by the ruling party's president with harsh statements that will never be accepted. We repudiate and extradite this insult, which means open intervention and instruction to the judiciary, and we invite this country's public peace to give up its interference in the judiciary and the language of insult. In the common country, on the basis of democracy and freedom, together with all our differences, we will continue to struggle to live as brothers and sisters. After the coup, political power has transformed the country into a map of the victims of innocents, but it has to be known that, as the Prophet intended, blasphemy continues, persecution does not continue. From Üsküdar to Bahçeşehir, Ankara to İstanbul, Diyarbakır to Hakkari, Şırnak to Mersin, Adana to the results of the referendum on 16 April, it is clear and clear that this persecution will not continue much longer. The discovery of Ibn Haldun (Ibn Haldun), which the ruling representatives highly refer to, should not be ignored: powers are born, developed and ended. I would like to say that the current political power has entered into such a process through the pressure and persecution policies that the current government has imposed, because the scales of justice have been lost, and the Islamic ideals have been sacrificed to the will of power and power. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there is only one solution to coup attempts and security deficits, to strengthen democratic politics, equality and justice. There is not a single example of a country in the world where security is maintained permanently by oppression and persecution, where coups are prevented. In this case, even if the State of Emergency is announced, coup mechanics will continue to survive, social camping and rifts will, unfortunately, deepen. The solution to Turkey's social, political and economic problems inside is democracy, peace, equality, justice. Other than that, and 80 million people have no prescription for solutions to increase the sense of belonging and ownership of this country. Neither the bankruptcy of foreign policy nor the resolution of the economy nor the course of human rights violations are too deep to be resolved by any further pressure. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers know that if the coup had been successful on July 15th, they would have suffered more or less the 1980 coup. Despite the failure of the July 15 coup attempt, is today's pressures, persecution, and unlawfulness less than that, or has it evolved towards a reality that folds what will happen that day? These days, what happens under the name "judgment" will be a black spot in the history of the law, and the worst examples of bad practices to be taught in law school in the future. The country was exposed to such oppressive practices that on March 12th, September 12th, and February 28th, we were faced with practices that would make us feel jealous and jealous. On August 9, 2016, right after the coup attempt, the 12-point prescription, announced by our Co-Chair, Precious Selahattin Demirtaş, remains the only way to protect our country from civilian and military coups. According to these 12-point declarations, Turkey must hand over its problems to the dialogue of democratic politics. Our country must face its past, start a civil, democratic and liberal constitutional process, and reorganise the state based on merit. All differences in ethnic, religious, and identity, especially women's freedom, must be considered wealth and equal citizenship must be dominated. The freedom of expression, demonstration, and thought must be raised to the level of universal rights and freedoms, in an inexorably, but without it. All public resources, especially the nature looting, must be purged of corruption, theft and bribery. We would like to express our contribution to democratic, fair, egalitarian work within this scope to all political negotiations and to all our peoples. With such feelings and thoughts, as HDP, once again, I ask God's mercy to our citizens who died in the attempt of a low coup on July 15, 2016; I convey to our wounded citizens my wishes for health, healing, patience and gratitude, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0017par0145	Sir, I'd like to make a few things clear as Speaker of Parliament and to express that Turkey, which is within a democratic system, is within the state of law, should not be misunderstood. Mr. Yıldırım, there are no prisoners in Turkey, there are no prisoners; there are arrested, there are legal states in Turkey. In Turkey -- you can't describe it as persecution -- it operates and operates a legal status. At this point, words like this are words that undermine national unity and integrity. Turkey is a country that will not pay for proudhonist thinking, so it is a country that will not tolerate anarchy. No country, no democratic country should allow it and not allow it. Living in freedom doesn't mean having unlimited authority; then anarchy is born, and that can't happen. Therefore, please speak to legal figures, which is how you must express them. Plus... the feeling of violence will continue. I repeat, not as a longing, but as a belief that Turkey will no longer face coups. (EC PARTY) There may be such desires, there may be those who want to divide Turkey, and there are those who do. Turkey is a great state, and heart geography is vast. He showed us on the night of July 15th that these desires would remain in their desires, and he showed us on August 7th. So I'd like to explain to you that some ear-snatching circumstances do not challenge wrong thoughts. Sir, Mr. Reşat Petek Bey has asked me to explain. This is not a General Assembly for normal negotiations. Please, let them express their speech in the next round of talks, not bring up a conflict issue. It's a day when the spirit of such unity must be instilled, so let's put it to rest.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0018par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0017par0151	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0018par0152	Mr. President, you've taken certain passages from my speech, and you've been giving me a hard-on. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0017par0153	Yes, I promise. But I'll tell you this: it's not a face-to-face tease. I spoke of Turkey's position, the founding philosophy of this Grand National Assembly, our Constitution, our Civil Code, our laws. Whatever you have to say, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0019par0158	Mr. President, that's exactly why freedom of thought and expression exists as a universal right. No one has to think or express the same thing as you or those who think like you, and you've been tweezing certain aspects of my speech from beginning to end. If there's going to be an argument over the legal plane in this country, you'd be doing a much more respectable job if you'd said three sentences on how to convict a political leader who hasn't been brought to trial yet. In the same way, I find it difficult to understand what you're saying in response to what I'm saying about the possibility of a coup. Because before July 15, 2016, a long time and countless times, when we were pointing out the possibility of a coup, you were thinking as you think now. We say that removing the coup would not be with any more security policies, on the contrary, and that the coup of July 15, 2016 was the product of a year and a half of over-security policies before that. We say that the solution is democracy, social tolerance and peace, respect for different ideas. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0020par0162	Yes, Mr. Yıldırım, since I don't want to continue the session as a matter of polemics... we've expressed our opinion, each one's opinion is his own. I didn't pull it with a tweezer, I talked about your conversations outside of the words you put in the tweezers. I'll pass on that, I won't let it go.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0019par0164	Mr. President, I just...
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0020par0168	Sir, it's up to the speaker of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr. State Gardenli.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0019par0169	Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's very short, for the record...
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0020par0170	Have a seat, sir. Yes, Mr. President, Mr. State, please.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0021par0173	Mr. President, we are gathered in this special merger of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has once again earned the title of veteran, which marks the 1st anniversary of our recent history, perhaps the darkest 15th anniversary of all time. At the very beginning of my speech, on behalf of myself and my party group, I salute your honored delegation, our fellow citizens, watching us on screens, with respect and conversation. I pray for God's mercy to our legendary martyrs, who have fought unafraid to the last drop of their blood, who have grown up to the last drop of their traitorous attack on July 15th. On that cruel night, I offer my thanks and thanks to our veterans, the great Turkish nation, who stood up to the invaders, heroically, without thinking about them. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, no doubt the Turkish nation has managed to overcome and overcome many misfortunes and troubles throughout history. We're all proud of it. There is a price for existence, and it is known by the national conscience. Living in the harsh and difficult geography we live in will likely have severe consequences, as it has been so far. The Turkish nation's aim should not be seen as coincidentally playing games on its blessed presence. Besides, a siege of such hostility and betrayal is not new. If we don't come to our senses, if we lose the nationalist spirit and fall against each other, I clearly warn you, they're going to cut us out of this country, or they're going to bury us here, and they're going to cross us. That is the reckoning, that is the purpose, that is the wild purpose. July 15th is a coup attempt first. It's also an evil attempt to invade tacticians, theorists, couriers, subcontractors, planners, gunmen in the field. First of all, the denial of the mind, the denial of conscience, the destruction of simple facts. And no one will have the right. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] On July 15th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we were honored to be under its roof, had been bombed and thrown into a hail of bullets over and over again. A narrow staff hidden in military camouflage, a handful of snakes have fired fire at our nation, brutal attacks on national institutions and organizations. When we mixed up the history pages, it was the night of July 15th, where there was almost no such thing as lowness, unimaginable scenes of violence. In Çanakkale, the traitors wanted to complete the atrocities that the muslims had to abandon. After ninety-four years in the national struggle, the Turkish enemies, who had been chased, tried to clear Turkey first from top to bottom with the Pennsylvanian terrorists they had flattened their backs and harvested. July 15th, a reckoning is an unspeakable betrayal. On the other hand, Turkey has seven duvets; on the other hand, the Turkish nation, terrorist organizations and its masters behind it, and the parties are very clear. The Fetullahist terrorist organization has used all its resources to refer to Turkey. Planes, helicopters, illegally flown by the sweat of our nation, tanks, guns, are aimed at 80 million. Once again, a national agreement on the attempted occupation is essential. Although a year has passed since July 15th, the persistent polarization and the infertility of fights have been an alarm and a painful loss in our interest. The enemy is clear, the bloody terrorists are clear; the pit of hypocrisy they have dug is in plain sight. Then why can't we agree on the coup attempt on July 15th? Why can't we all stand up to the oppressors? Why can't we just be one breath around the truth and the public? What separates us? What's been going on between us? When July 15th was the assassination of Turkey, it was obvious that there was a murder to destroy our nation, how should we explain the differences of opinion that existed and base it on what? It is the name of the Anatolian invasion plot that has been going on for centuries. It is an unintended barbarism of the crusaden mentality that keeps the global killing machine of superstition, superstition and cursed environments running in and in our territory, against the Muslim Turkish nation. If we don't get scared and come to our senses, if we don't meet in the national mind and consciousness, this barbarism won't last. If we don't secure and repair the peace and inner peace together, you'll know that new attacks are ahead. The charlatans, the degenerates, and the murderers of mankind, who have unleashed our nation against us, have targeted only one party, not just one person, not just one thought, but all of us, our nation. (MHP and AK PARTY APPLAUSE) To see that, you have to know that now. Today, the sad and helpless situation of Western states is concrete evidence that the threat is not over, that the threat is not over, that the threat is not over. The ones we know of as friends walk behind us with a dagger. Those who are actively engaged to set up global and regional strategic equations against us are ready and waiting to fetter Turkey. They were armed and hired, and opened their bloody stalls in their homeland and in the areas of the mujavir. With this terrorist organization channel, the question of the song is being carried out. The sword of Islam is now in the hands of those who grope for the removal of the Turks from Anatolia. Instead of looking at positions on the 15th of July, strategic approach is a historic task of reading the dangers at its source and breaking the game in its focus. We can't run away from this mission, we can't turn our backs on this mission because we have nowhere else to go, we have nowhere else to go. (MHP and AK PARTY) We don't have another moon-star flag to gather under. Whatever we're gonna do here, we're gonna do it together in the Turkish nation's last home, we're gonna do it together. The backbone of the Republic of Turkey is a national identity, sovereignty and will belong to the Turkish nation forever. Those who make it difficult not to accept it, who say, "Happy is the Turk!," will answer with his word, and we will face it. If this spine is broken, the national identity is lost, remember that within these boundaries, within these human beings, it will become impossible for our government to live as it is today. If it's justice, it's not the road, it's the national conscience. (MHP and AK PARTY) There are many enemies; we are more, more powerful, more alive, we must show it. They're plotting, they're coming at us all of a sudden, as long as we keep our ranks tight, and if we're gonna die, we're gonna die like men, heroes, but we're gonna die completely independent. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] If there's a victim, let's get rid of it, but let's never forgive those who killed the state and the nation. Let's not make Pennsylvania attendants in dirty, sassy English and heroic T-shirts laugh and get thrown out. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] The U.S. doesn't post posters: they've already been exposed to humanity. Let them drown in their own traps. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I would like to say this in particular, that there is a part of the Turkish Armed Forces that has been nested in the coup d'état and Mehmetçik must be distinguished, and that all martyrs are equal without distinction. Each one of them is the kiss of the hands of a holy, glorious struggle for the land. The Mehmets are ours, we are Mehmets, blessed country is theirs. As I end my words, I pray to my Lord that our July 15th, Democracy and the Day of the National Union, a new resurrection for our future. I salute you all once again. Thank you, I say exist.
tbmm-2017-07-15sit01spe0022par0196	[[Standing ovations from MHP rows, the EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers welcome]] Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. Members of parliament, talks on the basis of the main importance of the July 15th Democracy and National Union Day have been completed. In the meantime, I'd like to present to you the program that's scheduled for tonight. The National Union March will begin at midnight at the First Assembly building in Ulus, and will arrive at Turkey's Grand National Assembly Ceremony Area at one o'clock. There's Koran tilaveti and prayer after the silence and the Instruction March, and there's a video projection show at 02.25. After my opening statement, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke. At 03.10, there is an introduction of flags brought by young people from 81 provinces. At 4:50 a.m. at the National Mosque, the Presidential Chamber, the morning prayer at Fivetepe, and the opening of the 15 July Martyrs' Abides at 06.00 a.m. again at the Presidential Chamber. Under the decision taken, it is 14 p.m. Monday (July 17th 2017) to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I've closed the compound for the meeting at 00. Thank you.
