tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to İstanbul MP Gibraltar who wants to talk about unemployment. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in the wake of the unpredictable, unsuccessful policies of the Justice and Development Party, which has been running our country alone for 15 years, today's problems include security, terror attacks, economic straits, unemployment and loss of prosperity. I wanted to remind the government of its primary duties by demanding a non-responsibility discussion today on the unemployment issue, which has been transformed into a vicious cycle of populist economic and educational policies for political interest, which is off the agenda of power. Dear lawmakers have reached a terrible extent since 2014, when the Justice and Development Party ruling the country with the operational presidential system did not raise the unemployment issue. According to official labour force statistics, the number of unemployed people who had not been able to find a job has increased by 590,000 in November 2016 and increased by 3 million 715,000. The unemployment rate, 11.8% in October, rose to 12.3% in November. And most importantly, 13 million young people between the ages of 15 and 24 have increased our unemployment rate by 3.5 points to the highest level of 22.6 per cent. The rate is much higher than the period of the 2001 crisis. Dear lawmakers, in the third quarter of 2016, growth was negative 1.8 percent. The decline in the 4th quarter is estimated to be scarier. Inflation rose to 8.53 per cent in December 2016. It is also predicted to reach double digits. The government must create new jobs, new jobs, for at least a million people every year. The government lacks concrete policy and strategy at the point of the problem of unemployment in our country, where one out of four young people are unemployed. It is also far from the scientific reality of increasing production to ensure increased employment. So, last week, the business and employment negotiations that we were surprised to see also revealed the view of this government's unemployment problem. The government, which is unable to produce politics, has launched a labour campaign with the business community to reduce unemployment in the short term until the referendum in April. To all of our people, and especially to our young people, for fifteen years, this government, which has not made any progress in the unemployment issue, and has even reached terrible levels of unemployment during its rule, is empty. The government's policies of education, economics, development and employment are lacking from a planned, strategic and holistic approach. In these ruling times, our educational system, which should be the driving force of employment and economic development, has collapsed. Here, information, science, technology production centers, which should be producing qualified human resources, unfortunately, come to the attention of scientists who are only being exported in a way that is not in accordance with the law. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party government will drag our country into an uncertain and chaotic process with a regime change referendum, hiding behind the rhetoric of stability. What we really need to discuss is the rapid strengthening of our parliamentary system and a solution to our people's problems. To all of our people, especially our young people, we need to remind this power that it is not the duty of the government to destroy and change the historical gains and regime that have been acquired by the declaration of the republic; we need to remind it that its primary task is to create a safe, peaceful, prosperous country that will bring permanent solutions to the problems of the workers, women, the unemployed. April 16th is a great opportunity for our country and our future. On April 16th, let us take this opportunity to remind our country of its original duties, which led to chaos in all areas by saying no, and on April 16th, let us take a comfortable breath for our country, for our future, for our children.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, I have made a commitment to talk about a field, sick prisoners, that proves how the government trades people's lives for political accounts. Today, in the country, you can understand the level of government's human rights policy by looking at the treatment of sick prisoners. The rights given to sick prisoners are to prevent political authorities from making a decision on a person's life. The state is considered obliged to establish healthy living conditions in prisons and maintain care when they are ill; otherwise, imprisonment becomes a greater punishment than execution, but today, the Ministry of Justice seems to have given its energy to increase the number of prisoners and prisons, not to prevent these rights violations. The ministry announces that it will open up to 200 new prisons and increase the presence of prisoners. During the AKP period, the criminal's detection was said to have been well done and has increased the prison population by seven times. What kind of Ministry of Justice is this that aims to increase the number of prisoners and prisoners, not to be reduced by a more effective justice system, but to increase the number of prisons and detentions? The director general of the Department of Justice Criminals and Inquisitors says in the commission that we are not targeting European standards as targets for ourselves, we are targeting standards for our people. In 2012-2013, the number of prisoners in 31 countries declined, while we have a double increase in the Council of Europe's review of 56 countries. I wish you'd targeted European standards so we could listen to the authorities here today, not to the increased number of prisoners, but to the fall. According to the general calculation conducted by CISST, about 60,000 of the 180,000 prisoners are sick. The data kept up-to-date by the IHD has information on 905 patients. The IHD and the Justice Department say those who are seriously ill are between 300 and 400. We can't get a clear number because occupational agencies like the Medical Association aren't allowed to monitor here. Regarding the Human Rights Association, the President of the Criminal and Prisoner Rights Subcommittee, we have no prejudices to any institution. Even though he said that the competent institutions in this area, such as the IHD, are excluded, the door of the patient prisoners is being breached by breaking down the door of TUHAD-FED. Sıyar Sav, who wrote to the Civil Society Association in the Criminal Execution System, has been held at a type F prison institution for ten months and has been living out of his intestines. Amnesty International has announced that the prisoner is to be operated on immediately at Bakırköy Prison. The case of Eve Ak (Abraham), who has been suffering from cancer for two years at the Gebze Women's Closed Correctional Institution, has become increasingly severe. The government continues to keep these sick prisoners in prisons for the alleged danger to the community and preventing them from having access to health. Are those who have not yet been charged with what they have been physically charged with over a year, still prisoners who have not even prepared their indictments, a danger to society? Is it because they're forced to live outside their bowels that makes them dangerous to society? A prisoner says he's trying to work out a solution by holding a band-aid from the top of his eye to the top of his eye so that his pain will be less painful. Is that how you avoid danger? Come on, you keep them in prison, so why are you blocking their access to health care in prison? The government is a danger to humanity, to human rights, by keeping these sick prisoners in prisons for claiming to be dangerous to society. While it is not acceptable to ask for a report from the medical examiner, who has already been known to be a political institution, the government has also brought the opinion from the police. Many public institutions and public officials are now working as Security because of the climate of the whistleblower, which has been created. The lives of sick prisoners are also entrusted to these institutions. Even the fact that the report, which revealed 97 per cent of what we had mentioned in various ways, was not approved by the Forensic Medical Association, is proof of how politicalized health is in itself. I'd like to finish my speech with a witness from the Civil Society Association in the Criminal Execution System in a video entitled "The Relatives of Sick Prisons Tell" The mother of a prisoner sang beautifully, and she sang beautifully. Twelve years in prison, he's got throat cancer, and now I'm leaning down to hear his voice. He's been waiting for months at the Coroner's Office. He's made statements. Such examples, quite frankly, can be considered many, but once again, I would like to say that there is no institution today that examines this area because of the pressures against NGOs, especially NGOs, and the locks on the doors of NGOs. Thus, sick prisoners also have trouble finding any way to address their problems, protect their rights. In fact, I would like to finish my discussion with the following example, especially when we know that our Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, has received intense letters on the subject.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0005par0034	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone. Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0004par0036	In these letters, sick prisoners express both their rights violations and their conditions in prison and their health. We're aware of these issues, obviously, with our co-Chair informing us. So I think that this government should put its hat in front of it once again and think about it and develop a truly fair, equal policy, and I salute you again.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. The third unscheduled statement belongs to the Silver House MP Hadji Osman Akgül, who wanted to address the 99th anniversary of Silver House's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Akgül.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise in honor of the 99th anniversary of our Silver House's deliverance from enemy occupation. I hereby salute the High Council. Our Silver House, located on the historic Silk Road, is a province with solid folklore foundations. Because it's on the point of transition, every tradition, tradition, tradition, crafts, and folk games that have existed in the Silver House, which has been formed for centuries with different cultural elements, shapes the rich cultural structure of our city. Our silver house has an important potential in tourism with its unique nature, its beautiful plateaus, its historical mansion, its castle, and its ancient cities, forest and nature preserves, home to many civilizations. There are many areas within the borders of our province that can be traveled and seen both in terms of nature and cultural tourism. These are the main areas of Artabel Lakes, Lake Limni, Süleymaniye neighborhood, Tomara Falls, Santa Ruins, Spider Forests, Karaca Cave, and Canca Castle. Another important value of our city is our Silverhousespor. Our club is making our hopes for the First Division with great success this season. With faith that they will carry the graph of success that we have achieved so far, I wish success to the management, technical team, and football players. In addition to the material beauty of our silver house, spiritual beauty should not be forgotten. Ahmed Ziyaddin, a guardian like the Silver House, is one of the values of our city. His messages of morality, respect, knowledge, lifestyle, decency, faith have remained valid until today. The teachings of His Grace the Silver House, who counseled their disciples to humble themselves, to be grateful, to have conviction, to keep their pledges committed and to be true in will and purpose, contributed to the creation of the Silver House's personal identity. It is extremely important for us to preserve his messages and pass them on to future generations. The Silver House is a city of brave men, one state, one nation, one nation, one nation, one flag that has internalized its principle, and would give their lives without blinking for its future and future. There are high values in this beautiful city, such as unity, unity, brotherhood, solidarity, and cooperation. Our countrymen, who would give their lives for their values, have shown their reaction to the July 15th traitorous coup attempt, and have taken possession of his republic, his national will, his will, his future. The Silver Houses are known in our society as trustworthy, confident people. The Silver House was designated the most loyal province to its debt in 2016. Again, it is among the first three cities in which to collect taxes. This is concrete evidence of how much our countrymen have taken care of their homeland, their nation, their state. The great city of my fellow citizens, the AK PARTY government, in the last 15 years, has earned significant investments, making our city a construction site, so to speak. From education to health, from agriculture to social policy to energy, it has brought great investments to our city and continues to earn. The Zigana Tunnel, which is under construction, will be made a double road between Tripoli and Baherhan-Bayburt, and a passage between the Vauk Tunnel and the Silverhouse-Kelkit road and the Pekin Tunnel, the Silverhouse Two-Siran road and the Tersun Tunnel, which are scheduled to be completed this year, will be revived by the construction of Salyazi Airport and the 2023 Erzincan-Trabzon railway, and a passage of transportation in our Silverhouse with giant projects. The Silverhouse, which will also benefit from the support of our Prime Minister's Charming Centers Programme, will contribute substantially to the development and development of our employment city. With these thoughts and feelings, I honor and salute the High Council, our martyrs who gave their lives in the 99th year of our city's liberation from enemy occupation, for the sake of our country's sovereignty and future.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Akgül. As the Court of Presidents, we celebrate the 99th anniversary of Silver House's deliverance from enemy occupation, and send greetings to all the Silverstones. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out according to the first joke of Article 59 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to take turns making promises to lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0008par0063	According to official data released today, our number of unemployed has risen to 3 million 715 thousand. The unemployment rate was 12.1 per cent; the youth was 22.6 per cent unemployed. One of the four young people is unemployed. These calculations include hundreds of thousands of citizens who have given up hope of finding jobs, not our young ones. Last year in August, I submitted a comprehensive motion to the House to investigate our young people's problems, and six months later, it wasn't even on the agenda. The parliament has been working on presidential ambition all night, but when it comes to our young people, our motions have not been raised, and those taken have been rejected by the AKP. Now it's time for our unemployed citizens. I truly believe that millions of unemployed citizens and their problems will go to the polls at the April 16th referendum and will give AKP the necessary lesson by taking care of our democracy with their no-no votes.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0007par0065	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, how do you beat a woman? The beating is in the house and not told to anyone. Look, this is one of the books that I'm showing right now, and another one of the scandals that the AKP's Hawkbey municipality is handing out to newly married couples. We've already explained the same scandalous books of Kütahya and Pamukkale municipalities. It's not one, it's not the second, it's the books that come to us now that we're on the run? It's a scandal to have new ones out there when it's not yet necessary for those books. Mr. ministers and the government, please don't sleep, do as you're told. Make sure you bring those responsible to justice. Otherwise, I want you to know that every time you talk about violence against her, we're gonna throw these books in front of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0010par0071	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. An industrial giant, Nursan Çelik, has stopped production since December 2015, which has allowed thousands of people to bring bread to his home along with some 900 employees and a company of subcontractors who have found 40. This company, which entered the list of 500 major industrial enterprises in 2015 with nearly 1 billion ciros in the 85th place, is unable to produce as a result of the ruling economic policies. The insurance premiums for the employees of this factory are being paid, the payrolls are being presented, but they do not receive the fees they need to pay for the payroll. Although they seem to be working in terms of workforce statistics, they're actually unemployed because they can't get paid. Will your government support the restoration of this factory and its contribution to the national economy? Is there an attempt by the Ministry of Labor or your government to protect and repair the rights of workers working here? Can you give some good news to the victims of this factory?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0010par0075	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0012par0077	The Prime Minister, who worked hard to eliminate the protected Prime Minister, is eager to present those who say no with terrorist organizations because the only man they want to bring in can't defend his regime. A person with a Constitutional decree to be neutral is also coming out, declaring the coup d'états they're going to give. To show the patriots, democrats of this country, who has cursed terror all its life, in the presence of terrorist organizations and coupters is the greatest injustice to our great people. If you look in Oslo, in Habur, in Dolmabahçe, and in the paintings of Dolmabahçe, who are side by side, and who are in partnership with the July 15 coupters, and who stand hand-to-hand in Pennsylvania, you will see who is in close proximity with terrorism. Stop throwing mud left and right, tell me why you want one man's regime and who you want it for.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is what will happen to the candidates who took the test before July 15th to become a regular petty officer in the Turkish Armed Forces, who had succeeded in the courses and who had not been appointed while waiting for the appointment? The question I asked the National Ministry of Defence in writing is not being conducted by the Ministry of Ministers. If they're victims, they want a security investigation, and they want us to get our dues. We have been tired of living in hope for months. In this regard, the government must make it clear and clear the situation of thousands of victims. Petty Officer Basic Military and Petty Officers' Alumni' expectations for months should be given a realistic explanation. Those who have succeeded in pre-July 15th courses, won the exam, but have no problem with the security investigation must be asked to begin the mission. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0014par0083	Mr. Baki Lightning...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Agriculture Minister Faruk Çelik on farm debt said the default farmers' debt would be restructured and a five-year payment plan would be made. However, we see it as an unjust and unjust practice. All farmers, not just defaulters, but all farmers in Turkey's debt must be restructured. In particular, my constituency, Mersin, there are major victims of disaster, and we demand that all farmers across Turkey, including non-responsive farmers, be restructured for five years. We're waiting for our Ministry to work on it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0016par0088	Dear İbrahim Aydemir...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0017par0090	Mr. President, we can't promote Turkey without the press, without East Anatolia, without the press. At the point of the country's active recognition of its wealth, resources and abilities, we need to show special sensitivity to the press, especially to the East Anatolian press. It's also a case where global media, who want to create a false perception of our country, raises the east by terrorism, by the difficulty of living conditions. Our first priority, then, is to give special support and approach to our press, which speaks to the people of the region, their conscience, their position, and their state of mind, their pulse, their energy, and their excitement. A positive approach to our Eastern Anatolian media is essential, especially in the context of the Press Agency. Our press, which has attempted to paralyse national will, is exemplary in its domestic and national stance of PKK betrayals, deserves all recognition and financial support. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0016par0092	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0018par0094	I ask the Prime Minister: Our country will go to a referendum on the Constitutional Amendment on April 16, 2017. There would be a tremendous inequality in the referendum studies. While you are using the resources of the state, we will continue the campaign with our own resources. On the other hand, the governor of the state, the governor, the chancellor, and some managers use their authority to explain yes to your power. These statements clearly violate the laws of the relevant organization and the Law of State Officers No. 657. Have you ever launched an investigation into those who have made their statement? Have you decided to suspend him? How many civil servants have you processed? If you didn't, why didn't you? Do you intend to publish a sentence so that there will be no more such biased explanations? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0019par0098	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we all know that our country has been through the most difficult days in the history of the Republic in terms of public safety. Our police are fighting terror, terrorists, thieves, degenerates, mobsters at the expense of their lives and working conditions. The police work system 12/12, which went to death on an order for their homeland, consumes their life, and the family ends their social life. Police suicides are the highest among other professional groups. 12/12 says no to the study system, 3,000 additional indicators, which are well-paid for by the police, which I hereby honor and cherish our fallen cop, Fethi Sekin. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0016par0100	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Transport had also announced that the Erzincan railway connection to Tripoli was to be made by 2023, and that the route link project passed through Torul, Tirebolu and coastal districts had been abandoned. However, the speakers of your party today make statements to impress pre-referendum voters. Through here, I'd like to ask the Minister of Transport if you've completely given up the railway project, which includes Giresun and Tripoli districts, or did your Ministry re-open these projects? The railway is not only the right of Tripoli, but all the provinces from Samsun to Artvin. We want the Black Sea railway for regional development and for greater geography and populations to be connected to the Black Sea at the nearest distance and to Europe by sea. This is a delicate issue, and local politicians shouldn't have material. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0021par0107	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0022par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. The issue of Syrian asylum seekers remains one of our country's most important agendas. An important question is whether many of the Syrians have been granted the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey and whether they will vote in the referendum. Following President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's statement that civil rights will be granted to Syrian asylum seekers who want to become Turkish citizens, it has been seen that in cities such as Hatay, Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa, the transition to citizenship has been accelerated and crowds have been formed in front of the population managers. In this context, how much of the Syrians who have taken refuge in our country have been granted temporary identification, and how much of them have been granted Turkish citizenship? How many Syrians still have the right to vote for Turkish citizenship? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0023par0114	Dear Man...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. After the July 20 civil coup, more than 150 journalists were arrested. The number of journalists arrested during the coup on September 12th was 31. Today there is a case of Oda TV in Istanbul. In the Oda TV case Ahmet Şık, Soner Yalçın Ergenekon is charged with being a member. The same Ahmet Şık has been arrested recently, associated with the PKK and all other terrorist organizations, and is currently unable to write letters in prison, not even receive letters from the outside. If the coup attempt had been successful on July 15th, one of the first jobs the coupists would have done would have been to arrest Ahmet Şık. Unfortunately, it was also done by power. These attacks on media freedom must end immediately because Turkey does not deserve this painting. You can lock up journalists, but you can't lock up news; you can lock people up, but you can't lock up thoughts. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0025par0121	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0026par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Health Minister, it's been reported that no other health worker will be present at the newly opened city hospitals while the doctors examine the patients. This could cause legal problems for doctors. In any case, there should be at least a witness worker in the environment where the doctor and the patient are. On the other hand, doctors don't get medical secretaries in these hospitals. In this case, the physician's performance cannot be fully used. In such a case, the physician has to spend most of his time on the computer. As a matter of fact, there have been intense complaints from doctors. In order for physicians to work efficiently, they must work with a medical secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0027par0127	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0028par0129	Mr. President, the referendum does not give election aid to parties, but the ruling party is handing out $103 billion in black-day money through ISKUR in an election district. At the same time, the three billion-treasure Defense Fund, which was handed over to the Entity Fund, is still being used for the will of the government. This money -- black-day money -- is also distributed to bosses as well as to howl. It will be announced after April 16th, according to the July 15th report. On April 16th, we vote July 15th. The report can't be explained. Why can't you explain what's hidden in this report? Why do you claim you voted for something you couldn't explain on April 16th? On the one hand, you expel professors like Ibrahim Kaboglu, professors like Özdemir Aktan from universities where they work as professors, while you continue to persecute those who explain the facts like Ahmet Şık. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0027par0131	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0029par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, your sense of democracy is further behind the understanding of democracy in the coup of September 12th. Why? In 1983, prior to the first election after the coup of September 12th, the leaders of the political party held an open session in TRT, debated their ideas, published them in a way that the public could see. We make this call before every election. Especially before this referendum, the bride, political party leaders, we're talking live, and we're saying that we want the public to know exactly what's what, but we don't see any initiative from you. Do you not trust your proposal to change the Constitution, or do you not trust yourself? Just yesterday, Mr. President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. State Bahçli has brought you such an offer. I'm going back to your information. Respect, love.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0030par0136	Thank you, Your Highness. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. The first word is for Mr. Master. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0031par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. I beg Allah's mercy to Special Sergeant Salih Kayhan, who was a martyr in yesterday's conflict with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists in the Amanos mountains of Hatay. He'll be buried today. I couldn't attend because of the legislature's work. At the same time, on the way to our martyr's funeral in Adana, I wish to express my condolences on the mercy of God and upon his people and to our nation, who had been killed by an accident. Today is also the 86th year of the Russian and Armenian occupation of the Silver House. I hereby bless all our martyrs. Again, today is also the birthday of Seyit Ahmet Arvasi, the intellectual father of the Turkish Islamic nation, who was born on February 15, 1932 in Ağrı Eastwhitetıt. His father is Seyit Abdulhakim Arvasi, one of the great parents who grew up in Anatolia. Arvasi, a teacher at the educational institutes of Balıkesir, Bursa and İstanbul, retired in 1979. The same year, the National Movement Party was elected to the General Executive Board and continued its mandate until the September 12th 1980 conflict. He is also a candidate for Istanbul MP from the MPHP. Arvasi Hoxha wrote a daily article in the daily daily daily daily daily daily title of Turkish Nation of Islam, which was the voice of Turkish nationalism at the time. After the coup of September 12th, he was tried in the trial of Turkish Islamic economists in the case of mp and nationalist organizations, tortured in the Mamak Prison. After his release, he continued to guide youth by writing in some newspapers and magazines. He dedicated his life of fifty-six years to raising a young man who was well - known, well - known, and clean, who was firmly devoted to his national and spiritual values. On December 31, 1988, Rahmetirahman was reunited. He is expressing himself: I have the consciousness of Turkish nationalism, which knows the greatest joy in living according to Islam's faith and morality, who wants to see the Turkish nation sainted and happy in two wars and thus adopts Islam. In my sense of nationalism, there is no room for racism, territorialism, and narrow public awareness. I'm against all kinds of racism...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0032par0146	I'll turn on your mic, give you a minute to spare, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0031par0147	Besides, the love of our glorious Prophet is of faith. I am bound by the high principles that they set out in the form of faith. I believe it's possible to be both a Turk and a Muslim and to lead the troubled world. They've tried and succeeded throughout our history. Then why should we not perform this historic mission? I know a great debt of honor and conscience to stand up to the games and schemes of breaking up the Turkish nation. I couldn't, of course, be indifferent to the treacherous intentions, the bitch schemes that were meant to be turned around the region where I was born and grew up as an East Anatolian child. I firmly believe that if the Muslim Turkish nation and its state are strong, so is the Islamic world. If otherwise, the whole Turkish world is being exploited along with the Islamic world. I think it's our enemies who understand the situation best. For him, the Turkish state and Turkish nation were the first targets of evil forces that wanted to capture the entire Islamic world. Those who know how to make an example of history will see it clearly, and it is the same today. So I say that the separatists who want to destroy the Turkish state and destroy the Turkish nation betray not only the Turk but also Islam.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0033par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today, one of Turkey's most valued journalists is currently on trial and he is making his own plea in Istanbul. Unfortunately, a lot of valuable journalists like him, from every angle, from every scale, are actually being held prisoner. I would like to pass on a piece of Ahmet Şık's defense to you, in the hope that all journalists will be set free, because it speaks very well of what was done today: it was not journalism, but it was the most precious legacy left to us by our peers, who we imitated, to tell us that they wanted power or power centers to be heard. Those who left this legacy were meant to be punished in the past, as they are now, by imprisonment or exile. When that wasn't enough, they wanted to be silenced by bombs and bullets. The struggle by those who think they have the power to censor the truth has been going on since journalism existed in this land, but it's a futile effort. Because, whoever you are, you can't fight an idea that gets your power from the truth. If you think that you are fighting, you will not be able to win, and you will still be lost." Yes, as I said, we wish all journalists to be free. Another particularly important issue for today, in fact, is that in the period of November 2016, the number of unemployed people aged 15 and higher in Turkey increased by 590,000 people in the same period last year, and there were 3 million 715,000.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0034par0156	I'll turn on your mic, give you an extra minute, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0033par0157	Thank you. The unemployment rate was 12.1 per cent, with an increase of 1.6 points. It seems that unemployment will continue to rise, and it is unlikely that this increase will be stopped by simple economic measures. Under the employment campaign launched by President Erdogan, the evacuation of the Unemployment Fund was in effect today and the decision was made to pay the companies $22 per day for each person to be hired by the end of this year with the last announced KHK. This fund has already been used for everyone but the workers, but the workers who own this source are out of control, and we say that this resource, this fund, should be used out of control, should be terminated immediately and given funds to those who are entitled to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0035par0160	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0036par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, every day we are shaken by news of martyrdom. I ask for God's mercy on all of our fallen security forces. By the way, another sad event: While one of our brother-in-law, unfortunately a martyr, wanted to attend a funeral, he also had an accident, lost his life, and today he is buried in Adana. And I ask God for His mercy. Mr. President, a report by the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner on the trial of Ahmet Şık has appeared today as a sign of Turkey's failure in press and freedom of communication. So, these practices, which have lost respect for Turkey, must be abandoned, journalists must be tried without arrest, and all obstacles to freedom of thought and expression must be removed. Turkey's position has made Turkey extremely disreputable all over the world, and the latest, the Council of Europe has had to explain it with a report, with a very strict report. No one has the right to discredit Turkey. Because of Ahmet Şık and his freedom of speech and freedom of speech, we want a Turkey where all the journalists who are inside will spread their ideas freely outside. Mr. President, I'd like to bring up an important issue today, as well as a awareness. Today is February 15th, World Childhood Cancer Day. The world's public is being held around the world today to draw children's attention to the phenomenon of cancer, to raise awareness of growing childhood leukemia and other cases of cancer, to share experiences, to create common solutions, and to warn them of possible dangers that cause cancer. Childhood cancers are curable diseases.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0037par0170	I'll turn on your mic, give you a minute to spare, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0036par0171	Thank you. Unfortunately, in Turkey, around 2,000 or 3,000 children suffer from leukemia each year, but within the framework of the treatable leukemia, 70 per cent of Turkey can provide a improvement around 80 per cent. Here's the problem: this is a long-term treatment, a health arrangement that requires children to be with their mothers and parents, so we don't have the proper hospitals. Turkey needs more comprehensive hospitals for children to spend time with at other times, where they will be more often with their parents. I'd like to point out that I think it's appropriate to draw attention to a matter of awareness, thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the conflicted environment due to curfews, I propose and demand that Parliament's investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine and investigate the problems of our people who have lost their homes or had to leave their homes. 10/02/2016 1) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] The 13th article, titled the limitation of basic rights and freedoms, states: "The basic rights and freedoms can be limited only to the reasons stated in the relevant articles of the Constitution and only to the law. These limitations cannot violate the Constitution's word and spirit, the needs of democratic society and the needs of the secular republic, and the principle of measuredness. " It does. Again, the 15th article, titled "stopping the use of basic rights and freedoms" of the Constitution, states: "In war, mobilisation, martial law or in extraordinary cases, the use of basic rights and freedoms to the extent necessary, may or may be partially or entirely stopped, contrary to the assurances set out in the Constitution. In cases set in the first joke, no one can be touched with the integrity of a person's material and spiritual existence, except for the deaths of those in accordance with the laws of war; no one can be forced to explain their beliefs, conscience, thought and opinion and opinion; no one can be charged with crimes or punishments in the past; no one can be considered guilty until the court has ruled his guilt." He made it clear in terms of which conditions fundamental rights and freedoms can be restricted. In accordance with this, the Constitution shall be declared under Article 120, and under what conditions and under what rules and foundations shall the implementation of martial law and state of emergency continue. The suspension of basic rights and freedoms by indefinitely curfews in Turkey does not exist on legal grounds. The curfew is not based on the Constitution. Article 11 of Law 5442 shown in Fulcrum does not grant permanent curfew authority to governors and governors. With that respect, the current curfews are clearly in violation of the universal principles of the Constitution and the law. The city in which Kurds live in a dense period of cities is currently in 3 districts, including Cizre, Silopi and Sur, with the curfews declared 56 times in total to cover 20 districts and dozens of neighborhoods. A total of 200 people have lost their lives in Cizre, Silopi, Sur districts in the wake of the clashes over curfews that have taken place, and the number has been increasing. In the conflicted environment, three months old Miray İnce, 32-year-old mentally disabled Mehmet Torgut, 77-year-old Emame Şahin has lost his life. 22 children lost their lives in the conflict. Thousands of people have been forced to leave their homes due to curfews and conflicts that have been going on for some fifty-seven days in the districts of Cizre, Silvio and Diyarbakır Sur. Nearly 100,000 populations have migrated in Cizre, with almost 60,000 inhabitants leaving their homes in Sur district. Most of the people of Cizre and Silopi, which have been declared curfews, have migrated to the province of Şırnak, but families who migrated with conflict in Şırnak are experiencing food, housing, and health problems in which they moved to districts such as the Güçükak, İdil, Kumçat. Obligatory immigration affects women and children much more. In poor families, women are in danger of being taken from their homes, their habitats, and pushed further into poverty. According to the reports of the Mediterranean Immigration Der, the people who were burned and destroyed in the 1990s had migrated from village to village, where curfews differed from the 1990s. Here, people migrate from city to city or town to village because of conflict in cities. Thus, this wave of migration shows a far more dangerous situation than the 1990s. Close to all of the families in question, 95% of them have stated that they wish to return if curfews are over. As a result, the same mistakes that were made in the 1990s are repeated. In the 1990s, more than 3,000 villages were wiped off the map, more than 4 million people were displaced from their homes, and a quarter of a million villagers were left homeless. In a country on the road to becoming a member of the European Union, we do not know whether the needs of people who are forced to migrate from the curfews and the conflicting environment are met, such as health, education, nutrition, housing. Due to events under curfews, we would like to request an immediate research commission under the roof of Parliament to determine the problems of our people who have lost their homes or have left their homes and to find permanent solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105, and the Articles 104, of our Constitution, in order to investigate the claim that the personnel employed as part of the Community benefit Work Programme are being launched by the AKP district and district agencies. [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 7) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Burdur]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Çanakkale]] 26) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 27) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[Kayseri]] Under the "Study for Public Benefit Program," there was a perception that people who applied in previous years were determined by the number of quotas and were not wronged, including the programme in which the unemployed registered in İSKUR were employed for public benefit. However, in recent years, the hiring of unemployed people, who have been receiving in particular close to the general election, has been highly questionable. People's rights have been conquered, and the rights have been earned, and most of the community has been affected. The ISKUR district office chose to determine the AKP's presidential and district, rather than by drawing lots of those who applied for it, and ultimately caused major injustices. Acquisitions under the name "Working for Public Good Program" have been transformed into AKP interests, not for the benefit of the community. The ISKUR district offices, which use the state's institutions as AKP agencies, are causing social divisions. The personnel previously determined according to the number of quotas, are not now a claim based on the demands of the AKP organization, unfortunately, our own observations. The state's organs can't discriminate against citizens. THE privileges within the entity are no longer hidden, but are made aloud, publicly, openly, openly. The governors do not ignore the situation or listen to its words. In addition, staff taken under the name "Working for Public Good Program" are particularly arbitrary in public institutions, not taking into account the person and its superiors. He makes his political commitment and closeness feel like he's in the institution where he's working, and he's in charge of his managers and supervisors. It's very grave, which is contrary to the state tradition and the working order. In order to reduce the burden of work, these temporarily employed within the ISKUR increase the burden of work because they are not employed. In light of the above issues stated, it is with respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105, in accordance with Articles of the 98, and the Articles of the Interior Charter of the Constitution, in order to determine and perform the necessary examination of the AKP's claims that staff employed within the Employment Programme, not under the rules of the Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Çi Mountain, known for its nickel mine reserve, is a forested area 15km north of the district of Turgutlu, Manisa Province, Turkey. The construction of nickel mines in the region began in 2005, and more than 250,000 trees have been cut down so far. It is used to extract nickel mines, segregate and enrich them using sulfuric acid in the Silo Mountain region. According to the CED report approved in 2006, the "open stack of lycchi" process would be performed. The third company, which took over the mine as a result of its brutal mining struggle and social response by the people of Turgut, decided to move from open liquor to closed boiler system and submitted its new environmental impact assessment report to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. No positive step has been taken in the report approved by the ministry except for a change of course. In the case in which the CED report was cancelled, the expert has reported activities threatening environmental health. The most important issue is the world's second largest sulfuric acid factory. The expert has decided that a separate CED report should be filed for the factory. The report also reports concerns that chemical waste could be transmitted to the soil and source waters during the rest of the pools of mineral ore mixed with sulfuric acid. The Gediz River and the agricultural basin are one of the most important agricultural areas in the world and Turkey. The Gediz River was protected by the Convention on International Responsive Waterfields (RAMSAR), where Turkey is also a party. However, removing the nickel mine using sulfuric acid will lead to the destruction of the mountain forests and the gediz basin. There are Musulcani, Akköy, Çampınar, İzzettin, Jacobs, Temrek and Sarıbey villages in the Turgutlu region, where the people earn their living from agriculture and forestry. Along with forest and agricultural areas in the region, our Turgutlu district, which has more than 100,000 populations, will be severely damaged by this pollution. The region is sensitive to the issue in order not to darken its future, and Çil Mountain is against the creation of nickel mines to take care of forest areas, farmland and villages, and would not be allowed to operate in order to prevent the country's biggest environmental disaster. With the permission of CED to remove a nickel mine using sulfuric acid in the area of Çel Mountain, we offer and propose that a parliamentary study of the Constitution, which will be used to determine the number of trees that will be cut down and to isolate the nickel mine, subterranean and subterranean sources, agriculture and environmental pollutant effects of the TBM Institution, as required by Articles 104 and 105. [[Manisa]] [[Slap]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 11) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 19) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 15/02/2017 (today), I would like to propose that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 15, 2017, the motion to open a parliamentary investigation to the community's family institution, which has often been published on television in recent years and has caused various complaints, has been suggested by reading in the General Assembly on 15/02/2017 Wednesday (now) of our proposal to open parliament research to determine measures. The first speaker on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group is Ruhi Ersoy, MP of Osmaniye, in favour of it. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0038par0376	Dear President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, we're recommending an investigation into the removal of the marriage programmes during the women's generation of televisions that we've mentioned in our proposal, which has become a social injury, and we'd like to recommend that the Assembly take over the situation. It's just a television show and a female generation hour, and it's evolved into a serious social injury, into a corrupting and alienation of values, and each part of society sees and pronounces on very different platforms. The NGOs have demands, with different signature campaigns being organised, and there are serious complaints from the office of Mr. President and the Prime Ministership, Parliament and us, and at the point of origin these complaints have a primary incentive to protect the family institution. Honourable members of the great Turkish nation are seeking to protect their family, the smallest building stone in the community. Well, well, it's about the destruction of the family, about these programs, everyone's so disturbed about the generation of these programs, why the authorities can't handle it, which is a serious question mark. First, I would like to emphasize that in the Special Awards of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the President of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the country's largest transformation in the past 14 years, unfortunately creates the weakest links to education and culture. We see that education is not one-dimensional, family, school, society, and that it is now an important element of education with media and electronic culture, that it goes on through virtual culture, through electronic culture. So can't we make it with popularizing productions by updating our values here, more constructive, more valuative, more alternative manufacturers, traditional values? Can't we think about that? We are trying to express corruption and alienation in the women's generation programme under the name of the marriage programme, but the RTÜK president, a former MP, Ilhan Orickaya, says in a speech:.... Especially when marriage programs are out of control, something very bad is going on around here, something is going on that we can't talk about. If I were to say some of those words in the marriage program and the TV broadcasts them, we would have to be grounded on that channel as RTÜK. Or if the law is inadequate, why don't you send it to the House as an offer of law? We immediately request that the political will responsible for the RTÜK (RTÜK) and the government, including the RTÜK (RTÜK), take over and pursue this matter with close surveillance, as well as with reference to the President. Under this lofty temple, under the protection of the family institution, these problems were expressed by all political party representatives in the budget talks of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Further into the study of the commission on strengthening the family institution, and RTÜK Watch and Evaluation Office head Mehmet Çakırtaş, who has been invited to assess the situation, has also shown in our research that close to all complaints daily have been intended for these marriage programmes, marriage programmes. Okay, so if the complainant is complaining about the situation, there's a problem. As the National Movement Party, we don't want and we don't want to, if television broadcasters need a generation like this, if society needs it, if it's to be filled with more meaningful programs and to be able to exist under siege with the values of the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation today, what kind of structures can be created through our traditional information system? We want to direct television programmers at this point, with RTÜK co-ordinating scientists working on Turkish folk science studies in the halls of the university, to come together with scientists and television producers who study media-cultural relations, to build healthy women's generation programs so that we can grow up in healthier generations -- at the advice of the council. For example, what would one of these be? I want you to accept this because I'm one of the most lawmakers at the funeral of martyrs, or rather because my own knowledge makes the most martyrs: He must follow them as fast as he can. From the bitter stone of death, drinking heroism. To be cast out and never to return. We recite poetry, we give heroic enthusiasm, we give testimony after those who drink sorbet. But, what about the families of martyrs, the reality of the martyrs isn't reality? Isn't marriage in the women's generation a drama of martyr families, a problem that society demands with a social reality? We're saying that other social plates, which need to raise awareness, responsibility for martyrdom and martyrdom and martyrdom, and that the martyred Mehmetchik, his military, his police, his ranger, his genius, and his family's problems, can also be built through this reality, or there's an institution called UNESCO, in Turkey's special, where the traditional information value system they've built is protected by the universal standards of non-resistant cultural heritage. Are we just going to protect the suggestions in this traditional information and values system by getting them on the UNESCO list internationally, or are we going to be able to create a program as our own bandwidth in the days of cultural schizophrenia today? What new elements are we doing about thinking at this point? Again, I know that the ruling party's academic and intellectual paralegals, particularly, are seriously involved in these issues at the Republican People's Party, and the scientists who have worked on them, culture people. We expect the sentiment of the House to be supported by this point from the heart, and we expect it to be addressed. A professor who is a congressman and an academic says there is no good culture, no bad culture, no raw culture. Now, we've come up with a projection of elements in our traditional information system that can popularize our cultural heritage, but our children haven't been able to produce anything? I mean, I believe we can fill these generations with a much healthier information system and our values. I would like to call upon the RTÜK President, RTÜK Vice President, Mr. RTÜK Executive Board members, to take over this situation immediately, especially the members of the RTÜK Board. Mr. RTÜK President says that if I were to say some of those words from the wedding programs here and they were broadcast on TV, we would have to be grounded as RTÜK. Mr. RTÜK, then why can't you interfere with it, and why can't you worry about it? If you're worried, why can't you invite the Council and the government to intervene? We are on the side of all good deeds that have been done at the point of locality and nationality, at the point of time of time for the nation and the state. As the National Movement Party Group, we will give our support until the end for the future of the great Turkish nation. When we look at television today, how many people do we see, or show, who are political experts, terrorism experts, diplomacy experts, constitutional experts, but who are not political, touch people, and build projects about an educational strategy for a cultural strategy? We, the National Movement Party, expect the Parliament to step down and take over the situation -- especially the President -- to complain about the potential to produce value in the matter of domesticity, nationality and universality -- and to intervene in its action and implementation -- and we say that we will follow it to the end. It is possible to see in government institutions that good work can also be done. One thing that has just come to my attention in the press is that a decision made by the NGO has been given to the children of the family of the martyrs the right to special student status that they can read with their families. The family was somewhere else, the father was a martyr, the child was somewhere else, the parents were in different places, in a different drama. I congratulate the head of staff and his colleagues on the initiative taken on this matter as lawmakers. He also believes that the potential of doing good works in this country, in the rulers of this country, in the political morality, in the virtue of this country, in civil society and in the origin of the ore, is to meet for good, and to crown the work that is good for the country, for the nation, the National Movement Party has brought this proposal to the agenda, waiting for your support. I hereby congratulate the General Assembly and the valuable social media groups who follow us and give us serious support, and the group Bozkurt Caps, which has been on the agenda for the upgrade of this issue, and thank you very much. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0039par0391	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Radiye Sezer Kırcıoğlu, Kopeeli MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0040par0395	I have made a commitment by the National Movement Party to express my opinion on the Parliament's motion to investigate the negative impacts of marriage programmes on society's core family institution and to determine the measures taken. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are no doubt acknowledged by everyone that the sole basis for raising useful generations to themselves and to the country is family. Therefore, the establishment and continuity of the family institution is of great importance. Since the peace and prosperity of the family are among the main tasks of the state, we care deeply about the matter. Recently, the programmes published under the name "Marriage Programs" on television channels are at the center of debates. Although the point of origin began at a positive basis, such as the establishment of a family, the point that has come today has sadly become deeply disturbing to society and to us. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs stated in Friday's sermons, marriage is a promise made by the spouses to share a lifetime with each other by bearing witness to the name of the great God. The marriage is a covenant and a covenant. As far as the covenant and the contract are concerned, marriage burdens us with both legal and moral responsibility. But we regret to see that these programs discredit women and men's relationships and family institutions. To materialize the union, to mock the physical traits and flaws of individuals, to monitor scenarios set by professional people in order to get more ratings, to make it seem real to the public, has become the regular flow of these programs. As a woman, a mother, and a politician, this situation first makes me deeply sad, hurt, and burdened with a great sense of responsibility. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are a citizen's average TV watch period in Turkey for 4.3 hours, and the use of the Internet is more than an hour. These periods actually show us how close a person is to the media, showing that he can spend more time with the media in these areas than with his family and friends. Thus, the way individuals today relate to the media is that they can even stand in the way of personal relationships. Therefore, the need for more ethical use of the media, which is a very efficient function, arises as a necessity. The Grand National Assembly of Women's Opportunities Commission of Turkey has established a subcommittee of the Media Role in the Social Gender Equality, which is of the same sensitivity and importance to the issue in the 24th term. This report was published in June 2012. Many issues have been discussed in the media as to how ethical media should be, such as how to fight discrimination against women, and many issues have been discussed and studied, as far as the negativeness of the media's view of women as a meta. In the conclusion and proposals of this report, there have been many proposals on self-control in the media, fighting discrimination, the need for awareness, the need for new legal regulation, and a road map has been drawn about the work that needs to be done. However, while drafting the Parliamentary Research Commission report on measures needed to be taken to determine and strengthen the Family Institution's measures for the study of Unsurlar Divorce Events -- established in the 26th Year of the First Amendment -- NGOs, media agency representatives, media monitoring institutions and universities -- their views on such programmes have been heard and the results of the Parliament's research commission report. It's been discussed in detail by the Commission and the research commission, which I am connected with, which I run as president, and with the cooperation of NGOs and citizens, I would like to say that it is very important to act on the control mechanisms that are present, along with the awareness efforts to support public research. In addition to these studies, our sensitive people have not been able to see the events, the Radio Television Oversight's web page has been issued a total of 75,190 complaints concerning marriage programmes, including a call line 444 178, and an e-mail address from January-December 2016, which has been submitted to a total of 75,190 complaints concerning marriage programmes, and the Supreme Council has imposed 14 million,433 TL on media service providers who publish their programs at a meeting on 4/1/2017. The existing Alo 178 line of RTÜK is free of charge, and I would like to say that the necessary work must be done here at the point where the public can use this area much more actively. I would like to address the media outlets first: our hope is that after the sentences, programme producers and media companies will come to them; I hope that by reviewing their programs to contribute to the maintenance of the sacred family union, they will use them in a way that can be useful to society. It must not be forgotten that both our people and we have continued, continue, and continue, to oppose any publication that violates the principle of common morality, moral values, and the protection of the family. In this sense, it is necessary for our NGOs to create public opinion for such programmes and to create social pressure to act more responsible for media outlets. The guarantee of our peaceful future is that I will take charge of protecting our families from moral erosion as a mother -- I repeat -- as a woman and as a politician, and I will pursue it. In this sense, I would like to express that this group's proposal is very appropriate, and I would like to express that we are looking at this problem with the same feelings, the same thoughts, and the same sensitivity. However, I just want to say that it is not enough to expect such a result from the political institution, to expect behavior. We're all politicians, we know that we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't do social issues, we can't do social injuries, we can't do social injuries, we can't do law enforcement, we can't do law enforcement, we can't fix it. We are the people who enforce these laws, our society. Instead of creating awareness here, internalizing, expressing the need for a mind transformation, I'd like to say that we need to go into this process actively, socially, with a little more community awareness, with a more complete perspective, by addressing existing NGOs here in your presence again, by creating public awareness, by making existing institutions more active, rather than simply waiting for a result from institutions. All I'm talking about is the work, the subcommittee and reports, the results of the research commission and the required legal arrangements, public awareness, civil society organisations will be dealt with here at the Assembly, the General Assembly, at the very first opportunity -- especially my commission. This motion really came right on top of our work. I talked to the head of RTÜK about it yesterday, through these same programs. What could be done, what his own organization did... that's when I got the data from him. I'd like to express that we're in an act, a study. At the same time, we've received several petitions...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0041par0407	Let's all work together as Congress.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0040par0408	Of course, as Congress, in the coming days of this process, let's consider this matter actively... I'd like to point out that a lot of petitions are coming into the petition board and the Proposal Commission is preparing a subcommittee for this matter. It's pretty advanced. He'll handle it on his own with this subcommittee. Let's set up a plan of action by putting the output of existing reports and research commissions on the table after these subcommittees, and in the days ahead of that, we'll have to make arrangements for our Parliament, our General Assembly, whatever, within their framework...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0042par0412	I'm going to turn on your microphone and complete it, Mr. Muleboy.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0040par0413	I'm just saying, let's put it on the agenda and make it happen first thing. I want to express that we share the same sensitivity. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0042par0416	Thank you, Mr. Mulecioglu. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Mustafa Ali Balbay, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0043par0420	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, the National Movement Party has made a very good suggestion. This is a matter for discussion and for all parties, I think, in consensus to be investigated. It was our opinion that the ruling party MP, who was just speaking, would be sympathetic to the issue, at least to the idea that the media could evaluate its function. Members of parliament, the family institution is very important in Turkey, more important in other countries. For example, one of the world's more powerful insurance companies, more powerful insurance organizations, is in the family in Turkey; when one member of the family is trapped, someone else will help him immediately. It's very sacred, very powerful, and our family ties are ours. But these media have turned these family ties into trade, turned them into fraud, turned the citizen into deception and made it very ugly, lawmakers have made it very ugly.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0044par0422	Bravo, Master.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0043par0423	A person who has recently completed his 40th year in the profession has sent a letter to Emin Desertabaşa. I'm reading a paragraph from that letter, especially the ruling party, and I'd like Mr. Mulecioğlu to listen. He says: "I joined the two wedding programs. First you're questioned by directors, and then you're accepted if you're good at talking. What you are promised is that soon you will be famous, and everyone will recognize you. The only condition is that you do exactly as we say, fall in love with anyone we want, look like you're in love, and play your role in the scenario we gave you. Members of parliament, the most watched television programs in Turkey are being prepared with such false planning, and RTÜK is unfortunately not doing anything about it at the moment; I stress, it is not because it says "Do not do it." There's been a meeting recently about this, and it's come up, but it wasn't meant to be. Our traditional way of getting married, arranged, arranged marriage; now we're talking about marriage, commercial marriage, money, marriage, role-playing.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0045par0426	Teleconference, marriage by electricity...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0043par0427	We're dealing with a painting I don't want to go on. Friends, of course, when it comes to the media, I wanted to share my thoughts with you in three main groups. First of all, these programs really need to be in line with the traditions of our society and the dignity of the family institution. RTÜK does not do its duty, even encourages it. The speaker has spoken of the fines. Those punishments are one tenth of the daily earnings of those channels. Therefore, they say, "Peace be upon you, keep broadcasting." Members of parliament, another issue through the media is that terrorist organizations are the top in the media lately. I can't believe it. On the one hand, the President, on the other hand, is calling opposition parties the main name of terrorist organisations. When you came to power, you sent delegations abroad saying, "How can terror be solved?" In Britain, we've probably given you strict rules not to mention the name of the terrorist organization on TV. Because terrorist organizations don't advertise, but you do it through the media. Congressmans, again, I'm going to bring up another matter as important as this through the media. The Supreme Election Board monitors televisions when the election calendar begins and punishes if it is broadcast by bias. This sentence has been lifted.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0046par0431	He's getting free.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0043par0432	Yeah, I'll get to that. The Supreme Election Board won't give you this sentence anymore, so you can broadcast it any way you want. Until when? Until April 16th. I want Mr. Turan to listen carefully. There's a hypocrisy here that I really don't want to comment on. On April 17th, if a television station broadcasts side-by-side, it can be punished, not if it does it on April 15th. Please, put your hands on your conscience! Please, think about what would happen in terms of democracy in Turkey, in terms of social consensus, and make an opinion. On the way to the referendum, all things are free, no restrictions; you can publish until the end of the day, until the end of the day; there is no crime, no charge. But, after the referendum is over, in two days, the RTÜK can punish you. Why? Because when you look at the RTÜK, it says that you've been broadcasting side by side. But now it's been removed. The election period is taken from the RTÜK, given to the YSK. The YSK is losing its authority with a decree. The chairman of the High Election Board is making a statement yesterday -- I want to choose the words, but he is shamelessly explaining, saying: "We have made our rules, publish them under these rules. If they do not, he will say: "We have no authority in this matter. In this regard, I invite the ruling party to give an answer, to explain this hypocrisy, this restrictions, which seem to be freeing, to clarify. How could this happen? You will address the media, this kind of power, the name of terrorist organizations, and you will degenerate society's culture with marriage programmes, and you will pave the way for one-sided broadcasts, lawmakers. Now, here we are, going to a constitutional amendment. We're going through a change that needs to be made with a social compromise right now, in a way that I'm telling you, using the media as you please. There are weapons of mass destruction, nuclear, biological, chemical blacks. You're effectively using the media to change society as much as the sum of these weapons, to destroy the spirit of society, and you've made the media a weapon of mass destruction. There are many examples in the world that can be given during constitutional changes. I want to give you an example from the Republic of South Africa. This is an example of how social reconciliation is achieved, how the Constitution is made by embracing all parts of society. Mandela, leader of the South African Republic, is released after serving twenty-seven years in prison. The African National Congress is the head of the ANC (ANC) and is certain to win the election. They say, "Let's make a new constitution." He says, "Yes." Mandela says, "Let's make this constitutional amendment, and the parties that have passed the 10% vote will be the first to be formed after the change." Mandela's supporters say, "Don't do it, we're in power, what's the point?" Mandela says, "No, we're bringing in a new constitution, it's a matter of social reconciliation, we have to do this transition together." Mandela gets 63 per cent of the vote you're dreaming of -- the vote you call "if we reach" takes 24 per cent of the vote, the third party gets 11 per cent of the vote, the party that keeps Mandela in prison for 27 years, and she becomes a partner in power, my friends. Today, the South African Republic has solved all its problems with that constitution. The discrimination there was much heavier than it is now in Turkey, which is what they call discrimination. So, for example, it was a brutal condition where killing a dog was punishable, but killing a black man was not punished. He came out of there, the Republic of South Africa, but since he was able to achieve such a social consensus in his constitution, today he added the country of prosperity to his flag as a rainbow country, and today he took his place on the world stage in a painting like this. Now, both in his country and in all of the BRICS countries, the South African Republic, as well as in India, which includes geography, ocean geography. This constitution you've brought will make society what you've done to the media. We're going to an environment where terrorism is named after all kinds of terrorist organizations, which are degenerated by all aspects of society in their marriage programs, that people are brought into marriage by hire, and that the right to public information is completely destroyed, that a unilateral broadcast is opened up. The end of this is a great adventure, my friends, and the end of this is an unknown swamp. Come, I say turn this way. What you're doing, what the media is doing right now, above all else, is a violation of the citizen's right to be informed, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0047par0441	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. The last speaker of the National Movement Party's group proposal is Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0048par0445	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, Mr. Cemal Ozturk, our member of Giresun, with his nephew in it, Al-Bab, I ask God's blessing on our martyrs, and may the souls of all our martyrs rest in peace. Before we get to the point, I'd like to say a few words as a media person about the issues that Mr. Balbay is pointing out, which is that during every election period, the High Election Board, as it has been in all elections in Turkey so far, takes responsibility for the control of RTÜK, the entire media and the process. Just like yesterday, the same process will continue today, that's one. Second: Televisions, written and visual media ethics, don't interview what you want -- in effect, private organizations -- and don't say that at the time that he wants to -- which I witnessed last night, while I was on television going through several different channels, a similar sentence was expressed there. There was a program attended by a senior executive from CHP, and it was expressed there. I mean, all the channels... how do you go out on that channel and interview, information, information, information, as a source, and the other one uses the other? Just as there's no limit to this or to detection in the written media, that's the truth, it has to be special, it has to be neutral, it has to be independent, I'd like to express that my opinion on this is for freedoms, democracy. As a matter of fact, I've read the National Movement Party's motion for marriage programmes to the very end, and I find it very valuable, and I find it very important, a very serious sensitivity. Why? Because the happiness of the individual, the rights of an individual, and the point that it reaches, is the happiness of that family, and the happiness of those families brings social well-being, social order. In our beliefs, in our values, family is at the very beginning of everything, the core of society. So we need all sorts of actions that affect the family, which will cause disintegration of family... the media is very important here, Mr. Muledecioglu has just pointed out, when you look at the society of Turkey, watching television for four hours a day is way above European and world standards. So, at this point, where there is such a monitoring rate, of course, I think his influence on family and individuals is very valuable, and his reaction to their unrest is very valuable. I agree with Mr. Balbay. He also said: "The rate of punishment." He said: "Yes, yesterday has been modest, we met the president of RTÜK, who was invited to a program in our parliament, and we have very first sentences, just like everyone else, and there are dialogues that have come to such an ugly extent about these marriage programmes, that have to be done to us, not to our society, not to the youth, not to the new generation, not to the new generation, but to the current legislation, but to do the right thing, to do the right thing, to do the right thing, but to do the right thing, to do the right thing, and to do its way. So, what are these? What does Congress do in that sense? There were two valuable work and commission work on the subject. Since I'm a member of both of them, I'd like to point out that there's a new example of work. This is the most valuable perspective of all political parties when it comes to family values, beliefs, and our culture. Thus, during my 24th term as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission has resulted in such a beautiful report that affects our women, social sex, media roles, both from this point of view of the media, and from a social gender point of view, our women, family. It was a study where Mr. Zeynep Karahan Besli had been president. In the 26th period, we also reviewed the report of the study commission, which includes the integrity of Ayşe Kashir Ma'am, who was a member at this time -- the chairman of our Deputy Düzce -- of the family's integrity and the protection of the family -- and while we were working, we had all the details of the televisions, the marriage programmes, especially the media, the writing, the visuals -- in a meeting in Istanbul, even in Istanbul. In this report, again, there was a parentheses about the role of the media, and there was a different perspective on these marriage programmes, and this was compiled into the report, and in the end, what I'm saying is that this work -- in the framework of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- has to be done -- has to be done in the second phase of this work, which involves the subcommittee of the Women's Opportunity Commission on the subcommittory and the family, especially the divorces -- is going to have to be very well evaluated the results of this research commission report, which we're going to need to continue, with the legislation, and what we need to do with the legal regulation and the current implementation. I think we need to be particularly sensitive about this. After we put it out there, we did it, did we? No. The petitions are now in incredible intensity, just as the MPP has asked for that motion, as Mr. President has just expressed in our Parliament. So society is very sensitive about it. Our society demonstrates the necessary sensitivity to this contrary and unacceptable structure about our values, our beliefs and our culture. Now it's time to do a study that will make the control mechanisms of this more manageable, which will legally fix the structure that binds its hands in the control mechanisms. When I said that I would take this speech, Mr. Belma Line, our President of the Motion Commission, also said: "Yes, there are a lot of information coming to us and to the Commission, and we have the determination to form subcommittee, and the other political parties are sensitive about it." When we take this sentence, our own members of the group, as well as Mr. Bült Turan, have just expressed it before he comes out. Yes, it's a very valuable topic, and there are reports, studies on it. A new subcommittee is envisioned, but now? A process has begun about the referendum, about the public vote. In this process, the House has a working schedule for the people's vote. So by April 16th, we have a scheduled working schedule. I'm going to say no with these feelings and thoughts, but we're going to show that we care very much about this topic, about the family, about the sensitivity of all political parties, and about that, we're going to do the same kind of work we're going to do with our citizens' responses petitions that we're going to do in front of us.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0049par0457	Ruhi Bey, you see, they say no.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0050par0458	We say yes, yes.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0049par0459	There's a blessing in no.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0051par0460	We do good deeds, we do good deeds.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0052par0461	I've just said that, in the meantime, I said yes to this offer...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0051par0462	The result, the result...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0053par0463	Actually, yes, in a manner of speaking, no.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0052par0464	By saying yes to the proposal, but by highlighting our concern for the subcommittee's subcommittee in front of us due to the work schedule process, I wish you well. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0054par0467	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0055par0469	What's the matter, you're upset about it?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0056par0470	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0054par0471	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0056par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I don't understand why the Justice and Development Party would say no about such a good thing, so let me just say this first. Now, there are preparations for the bill. Two friends speaking on behalf of the AKP are speaking to address political problems from here, but they also oppose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission for parliament to put a political stance on the solution of the problem. So, our goal, my friends, is not to do politics here, but to solve a problem here. A bleeding wound of society... look, even if we make a law proposal here and ban it, we don't solve the problem. Why is society so popular here, what are the reasons? We need to look into this. We need to investigate the destruction he's caused on society. It's not just a matter of prohibition, it's not just a matter of RTÜK, it's a family ministry that has work to do, other places have work to do; all of this needs to be talked about. It's, believe me...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0057par0478	Please complete, Master.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0056par0479	This is a more important agenda than any of the agendas we're talking about right now. Our working schedule is not suitable. I don't think we should avoid it with some sort of form or something. The AKP's attitude has been extremely wrong. We call it family, we call it family protection. We say, "There's a great corruption, there's destruction in society." We say, "There's a lot of corruption in society." And the political party that's doing politics and getting votes from this community doesn't support such a motion here. It's not understandable. I'm saying that I think of the speeches as completely politically speaking talks about how to repair the damage they're going to get from here. The fact that this matter was studied in the 24th century... 15 years of power... at this point, the president of the RTÜK says that we can't talk about what we can't talk about. Look, twisted relationships are spoken here on live television about family; how can you say no to such a thing? Ta, there's no point in using this as an excuse that it came up to me five years ago, ten years ago. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0058par0482	They're playing with all the values of society, that's right.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0059par0483	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0060par0485	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, the ruling party has always shown a tendency to reject the very right demands of other parties unless it comes from it. There's no telling why he's doing this. I mean, it's important. Just because the National Movement Party brought it here doesn't mean the ruling party has to avoid it. We're different parties, but we looked at the text, we looked at the grounds requested by the research commission, and we voted that this motion should be supported. So I'm stressing that we've been watching the ruling party's position with example, and that because we already know this attitude, we've been constantly fighting the ruling party as the Republican People's Party, but that the ruling party's understanding is in the framework of an understanding that has always left its way, that it's a reality that it's seen by everyone. I repeat, we support this motion.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0059par0487	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0061par0490	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We care about the group proposal we just interviewed. I want to congratulate my friend who brought up this group proposal, and thank you. We're dealing with a social problem. We complain as much about advertising as we do of such publications that disturb every part of our society. But you'll appreciate that when we look at the density of the House, its agenda, its referendum, and so on, but I'd like to say that there's been a very important report made in the Women's Equivalence Commission on Men's Opportunity. Other than that, the four hundred and seventy-five pages of Family Consolidation and Research Report that you see in front of me have been prepared, and the main headline is about the problems in the media. This was only published in May 2016, you know, with the participation of all the parties of our Parliament. There are some very serious, concrete suggestions here. We want these concrete suggestions to be implemented. If the law is the law, the punishment is the commission, the commission is the commission, but we have some problems with the fact that the results of the law that passed into life in May have not been real. We want to get all the parties together, make it happen fast. We invite all press agencies, especially the head of RTÜK and his team, to be more sensitive about these matters. I want to express that we are prepared to work on this in any way possible. Thank you again.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0062par0494	Thank you, Mr. Turan. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 15/2/2017 (now) I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On February 15, 2017, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioglu, Deputy Group Vice President, suggested that "investigating intensive detention and arrests launched in order to disable all democratic political institutions launched along with the KHKs launched and implementing them" be read in the same session of the 3880th Assembly of the Assembly of Turkey's Council of Assembly Research, which has been given to the Grand National Assembly on Wednesday (February 15/2/2017), as well as other motions waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0063par0509	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of a motion to investigate unjustly unlawful detention and political genocide operations against our party. I salute you all. Dear MPs, every day after the June 7, 2015, detention and arrest operations against our party have been continued, and 519 party managers and party supporters are now in custody as I speak, including our party managers and co-chairs -- including our party managers and co-chairs. Dear lawmakers, since July 2015, following operations that did not slow down after the June 7th elections, these illegal practices for our party continued almost every day, from January 2017 to this side, including our party managers, municipal co-chairs, party district co-chairs and party members, 1,177 of our parties have been taken into custody and over 250 people have been arrested. Again, valuable lawmakers, 10,114 people have been taken into custody in operations against our party within a year and a half from June 7th elections, over 3,000 of our party managers and members have been arrested. Precious lawmakers have carried out all kinds of unlawfulness, all sorts of political genocide operations against our party in order to remove our party from the field, to distance it from democratic, political ground, in the process of changing the Constitution in parliament and in the process of its work today, especially when implementing its policies towards the single-man regime. No matter what you do, the process of landing on the throne has begun, you will no longer be able to fool the people of Turkey. With your perception and deception, these people will no longer fall for you. With our co-Chairs and illegal practices against our party, you can no longer turn anything to your advantage, you cannot digest HDP and democratic forces. Look, the People's Democratic Party received 6.5 million votes and entered this parliament as its third largest party. Therefore, you cannot digest the People's Democratic Party by arresting co-Chairs and MPs. Each HDP MP who voted 6.5 million votes is a Milahattin Demirtaş, a Figen Yüksekdağ. Therefore, holding our co-Chairs, especially in this referendum process and in the historical process of constitutional change, physically in the hearts of our peoples, in the conscience of our peoples, will sustain the spirit of Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, and the spirit of our fellow arrested MP. The AKP is the ruling party; let alone arrest 10,000 executives and members, only if you remove the mayors of the province of 81 today, the AKP will be dysfunctional, almost a cadaver. But it's illegal Middle Ages law, sanctioned detention and arrest operations against the People's Democratic Party. Look, the higher the vote, the higher the vote, the more it seemed public that the current constitutional amendment would not be accepted, the more the ruling party turned out to be an operation, an attack, an act of treason, an operation against all the crazy opposition. You're taking out universities, educational institutions, all employees of the government, the bureaucracy, without any legal grounds, without any legal grounds, and now, not in accordance with the law, but in the decrees of the sultan. But no matter what you do, you will learn your historical lesson in this referendum. It is not a political party vote that the public will vote on April 16th, but the future of our people is the fate of our peoples. Therefore, through the fate and future of our people, with neither the exploitation of religion nor the exploitation of nationalism, you will not be able to go any further. Your true face has been revealed to our people; the people have seen your true face. The religion of Islam, which is your religion, is not your religion, nor is nationalism your monopoly, nor is it a belief. So you can no longer fool our people over these two concepts, you can't alter them. Dear friends, you have left tens of thousands of people out of work with the State of Emergency decrees. Anyone who doesn't belong to you, anyone who doesn't say no, you're declaring either a traitor or a separatist or a terrorist. However, the referendum that will come before our people is the determination of the future of our people, and our people, your interests, will not darken their future in the name of your reign, they will carry out their future with democracy, freedom, peace and the feeling of living together. Our people now know your 14-year policy of deception, your 14-year policy of regret. So from now on, my Padişah, long live. Our people will not say, "Long live the democracy, freedom, peace; long live." Look, despite the fact that your practices against our co-Chairs and lawmakers cannot be stopped by the Constitutional Court, you are disregarding the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's decisions, and you are holding our co-Chairs and deputies hostage so they do not speak to the public in this referendum process, not to expose your true face. 14 years of AKP history is basically a history of regrets, a history of deception. You've done the Ergenekon operations, there are people who are being wrongfully arrested. You're the coupger, you're the conspirator. For ten years, eleven years, arm in arm, hand in hand, you've done all sorts of schemes in this country, you've hurt hundreds of people; then you turned around, like a spoon out of milk, and you said, "We are innocent." Or you said, "We are wrong, we are deceived, God and our people forgive us." You ran Syrian politics, then your Syrian policies went bankrupt. You have made alliances with Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, you have said that Israel is going to leave, we will pray in Emevi Mosque. You said that these policies have failed. So, you crashed the Russian plane, we're the great government, we do it. You said. You have done wrong, you have done wrong. You are afraid, you are a servant, you are afraid of Russia, you are treacherous. But then you ran to Putin, and you ran to Netanyahu. Now that you have stopped praying in the Mosque of Emevi in Syria, you are running to Assad.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0064par0522	Come in, complete Mr. Adıyaman, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0063par0523	Thank you, Mr. President. Syria's policy has failed, you've dragged the people's children into the swamp in Al Bab's stalemate, the funeral of poor, poor, working people's children, soldiers is coming every day, but at the end of it all, we turned around, we were deceived, we regretted, God forgive us, our nation will forgive us. They may have forgiven you by now, but on April 16th, these people will no longer forgive you, they will teach you what you need to learn. So, I'm telling you right now, when this people lecture you on April 16th, when they come out of the crates, you're going to go back and pick a scapegoat, like you always do, and this time you're going to say, "The MHP has deceived us." Being tricked becomes your political policy, your party character. Therefore, you will not be deceived from now on, because I say the people will teach you a lesson, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0065par0526	People know who's fooling who.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0066par0527	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. Halis Dalklıc, İstanbul MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0067par0531	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. And I ask for God's mercy on our brother, who was killed yesterday in Hatay. I hereby ask God's mercy on all our martyrs, and my condolences on our nation. Mr. President, when we set out 15 years ago under the leadership of our founding President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as a member of the EC PARTI family, we set out with a great ideal at the point of great Turkey's ideal and love, which advocates peace, brotherhood, development all over the world, which is power in the region. As we moved to this ideal and love point, we faced the fact that as large investments were made in Turkey, both global and dynamic political forces on the inside and outside, which were disturbed by shuttle diplomacy in the name of peace in its region, and because Turkey was uncomfortable with its march, at various times, we were determined that Turkey's march would be stopped, but we were determined to stop, but at the point of our commitment and trust in our nation on this issue, we were determined to continue our great march. Dear MPs, I said I have taken a pledge against HDP's group proposal. When I read the group proposal -- when I look at it -- in the HDP group's proposal, they talk about the arrest of the executives of some political parties who were thrown out concerning the State of Emergency decisions, and they criticize the State of Emergency decisions. He's had several motions before. By ignoring why the State of Emergency was necessary, why the State of Emergency was made, regardless of that, they are talking about the implementations of the State of Emergency and the implementations of the State of Emergency, particularly of a direct political party, aimed at its rulers, and they are taking it on the agenda of the Assembly with a motion. Dear lawmakers, in Turkey's history and in the recent history of what we know, there is no such thing as a nation that has witnessed such a major attempt to invade. In the July 15 coup and occupation attempt, we have seen how those who have infiltrated the institutions of this nation, who have taken the salary of this nation, who have served the state, who have served the nation, who have betrayed the country, and we have made an extraordinary decision from these institutions together in the House to get rid of them. We have stressed the State's decision over and over again, the decision that we make does not affect the citizens' daily life, but is a decision made only about the state's institutions and the state itself, and our practices are in that direction. We have said that, however, various claims are sometimes brought to light. Dear President, in all the countries of the world, governments form institutions to serve their nations, to serve their citizens, to employ officers, but if these officers have been in the service of various organizations that have betrayed their country instead of serving their citizens, if they have abused the confidence of the self-respecting nation and state, all states will take measures to do so, and clear them of their institutions. Turkey is also doing this; Turkey has also made a decision to clean up the state and the nation, which has infiltrated, has been cryptoised, has served in the state with various manipulations, has served in institutions, and has also made a decision regarding those who have betrayed its country, its nation, and those who have collaborated with its traitors, and it has also issued decrees to do so. To bring this and present it now as a political decision to the head of a political party, a member of a political party, is really nothing more than a twist. We need to talk about this: What should the state do in Turkey, in July 15th, in the treason attempt, in the coup attempt, in the east, in the southeast, in those who could not distance themselves from terrorist organizations? Should he have let it go? So he shouldn't have gotten involved? So, now, is anyone being detained as political party manager in connection with these actions? No. What's it about? About treason, about terrorist organisations, about walking arm in arm, about attending terrorist funerals, who acted at the point of digging ditchs with terrorists -- on the ground of law, which is part of the political party, which is the director of the political party, which is unaccounted for -- is the law and the state of Turkey. There's no place for you to bring this up, sir, and bring it to the agenda of the House as if it were a political decision, and there's no time. In fact, there's a lot of work to be done. There is no such experience in the history of the world or in the history of Turkey. We had no idea of the depth of the organization and the organization we were fighting, the coverage, the way they were connected. Is there? I mean, he's fought a lot of terrorist organizations in the world before, and so have we, but the network of relationships, the settlement, sir, the planning and the relationships of members of the organization still have with each other, the structures, the organizations that none of us can imagine. There's a cleanup going on for him in a very delicate and difficult time. It's about cleaning, despite everything, if there are victims, if there are victims, there are commissions about them, regarding that, sir, decisions are being made, measures are being taken. These measures must be implemented. We don't want anyone in this country who's not involved in a crime, who hasn't betrayed, who's betrayed, who's never had anything to do with terrorist organizations. We don't want them to become victims, and we do. Dear lawmakers, there's been a lot of talk about plurality in the KHK, sir, there's been a lot of detention. So maybe we need to figure out what a complicated sequence of organizations we're dealing with, with these numbers, with a look like that.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0068par0541	They're all our executives.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0067par0542	So, instead of serving on these commissions, you have to help friends who will do the cleaning. There's a lot of manipulation, there's a lot of distortions, there's a lot of relationship patterns, and what's important to us is that the nation trusts the state. If people's trust in their state is compromised, there'll be chaos in that country, there'll be fission. That's why, basically, people trust their government. At this point, there's never a process the government will neglect. For him, the nation and the state will continue to walk hand in hand. Dear lawmakers, we said that you would not bring decisions regarding terrorist organisations to the agenda as a political decision, but should not be brought up. We respect anyone who distances from terrorist organizations, who only distances themselves from politics, but at times, we are involved with Engagement, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and DAEŞ, Istanbul, Ankara, many parts of the country, our citizens in the Republic of Turkey, the people who are taking bullets to their children, the people who are walking arm in arm, let's not, let's not, sir, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't say, don't tell. For him, as part of Turkey's geopolitical position, as part of its historical responsibility, as part of the measures of our great march, I, hopefully, congratulate those who have done the services, on the sake of our 79 million citizens, for a Turkey where each nation's children are at peace, peace, and brotherhood are being established in its territory. I just mentioned it. The esteemed MP just made a lot of ugly statements in his speech, and I don't really want to answer them. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP speaking on behalf of HDP (HDP) has said, "Sir, it is the sultan's office." Such ugly statements are of no use to HDP (HDP). If the HDP is talking about a benefit, let him keep his distance from the terrorist organization, let him keep it open with the Kandil, and declare it to the nation, and it will help. But I'm returning to you these ugly statements, such as expression, such as "substantiality" to the elected president of the nation by the will of the nation.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0069par0548	Those elected by the will of the nation are in prison.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0070par0549	Whose will were our deputies chosen?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0069par0550	Weren't they chosen by the will of the nation?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0071par0551	Therefore, HDP says: "The real face. " You show the true face of HDP. What's the real face of HDP?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0072par0553	Oh, here it is.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0071par0554	Show the true face of HDP (HDP). This nation has seen the true face of HDP (HDP). So, we're going to fight terrorist organizations, we're going to bring peace to the region, and despite everything, we're going to fight dynamics globally trying to block the march of the great Turkey, and we're going to fight with the outside roots, and we're going to deal with the collaborators, and we're going to promise this nation, and we're going to keep it. We have a claim to this land, to this land, to this land, to this land, to this land, we have dreams, to love, to keep our promises, by the will of God, whether or not someone will appreciate them. What do you mean by "people"? Sir, at the referendum, our people say...... Sir, you have to stop categorizing. We're an AK PARTY party of 79 million citizens, what people are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0073par0557	Wow.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0071par0559	The largest party of Kurds is the AK PARTY, sir, and the largest of the Turks is the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0074par0561	You guys are so funny.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0071par0562	Mr. President, if you'll allow me to complete...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0075par0563	Here you go, finish up, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0071par0564	So, we've entered the referendum process, a historic process; Turkey has caught a historic opportunity, we're going to our people, we're talking about the will of the nation. The people's will, the MPs, we all voted here, we take it to the people, now our nation will decide. Everyone is saying that this decision is the crown of our head, and we are the crown of our head. He's a congressman who brought the Constitution proposal and signed it, and as your parliamentary friend, we've always been the head of the nation's decision to this day and after that. For the sake of this nation's future, for the sake of the country, in the name of peace and peace in the region, in order to establish the brotherhood, I hope that on April 16th, it will say yes and continue its great march, and may God be blessed. I salute the High Council. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0076par0568	It's a no, it's a no, it's a no, it's a no, it's a no, it's a no, it's a no,
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0077par0569	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0571	In many parts of the conversation, we've had our party, our deputies...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0077par0572	What sentence? If you give me an example...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0573	Of course, he specifically said words that made it seem like he would actually betray our judges and almost everyone on trial. Other than that, there's a lot of them, but I'll tell you from the stand.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0077par0574	Here you go, according to Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0578	You've been cleaning, cleaning the whole country, the whole country. There's no one you haven't cleaned up, no one you haven't just declared a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0079par0579	If there's a terrorist, we'll clean him up, we'll have to clean him up.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0580	You have neither the right nor the right to do such a thing.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0080par0581	Of course the government will have a reflex for those who betray the country!
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0582	You can never talk about people who are clean, especially the co-Chairs of our party, their deputies, it's not a policy style. Our co-Chairs and all of our deputies have had those conversations on this stand, and they've had those conversations outside, and all of our arguments -- including all of us -- are all of us, including me -- are having these conversations. You can't fool the people, that's enough.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0080par0583	The public already knows, there's no need.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0584	The hundreds of thousands of people you're exporting right now don't even know why they're being exported. They make calls, e-mails, people say, "Why?" Why? There's not a single investigation about them. Why? Because that's how you plan to save the economy. You're not replacing what you're throwing because you're in a crisis, and you know it. A continuous distance, distance, distance... are you going to determine who, who, who, what distance?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0081par0586	If you go up back there, you'll see what's going on.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0587	We're a party here that advocates peace, democracy, and we've said nothing but that. Our inmate friends have said no more than that, but why are they inside? Because you know what you'll be if you don't. You'll go with such a blessing that I hope you won't have a political return after you've gone with those no-nos.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0082par0588	No one was taken into custody for doing politics. Therefore, they will not be associated with terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0078par0589	That's what the whole country expects and that's what it expects. May it be good for you to go.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0083par0591	People know that, people. People will know, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0084par0592	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0085par0593	And second of all, I didn't mention the names of your presidents once, what makes you think that? I didn't mention the names of your presidents. I wouldn't do that.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0083par0594	Alma, don't take it.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0086par0595	Who are you talking about? You said one person, you spoke to our executives.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0085par0596	When you say "director," do you have the president or do you have dictatorship?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0087par0597	That's right, bingo!
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0088par0598	You made us laugh. You made us laugh.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0089par0599	Think about it a little longer.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0090par0600	Yes, Kandil has a dictatorship, that's right.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0091par0604	Peoples' Democratic Party Group's proposal is in favour of Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0092par0607	Dear President, my dear fellow clerks, fellow writers and dear congresswoman friends, before I express my thoughts on the motion I'm going to discuss, I believe that the definition of the precious ruler who spoke before me in the form of purity is not entirely in harmony with the language of law nor with ethics. This reminds us of a concept of Hitlerian times. So, in order to build democracy here, to build the future in a bright Turkey, I think we need to take great care in the language, naturally, of course, inside our heads. Now, my friends have spoken, given numbers, expressed their views on the situation in favor and against. I'd like to share a few information about how Turkey looks today from another window. As you know, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner has a report bearing today's date, dated February 15th, with a memorandum. There are some very important findings here. In this report, we had paid a visit earlier in April, and we were particularly concerned that there were serious problems at the point of freedom of expression, but the process after the State of Emergency announcement reveals that this is a more serious danger than being a concern, being a concrete, worrying situation. It is said, and especially the detentions and arrests are being criticised by the attitude of their courts. It is said that the courts are strongly biased during the implementation of the Turkish Penal Code, the Anti-Terror Law, and the implementation of the Anti-Terror Law. However, more than not feeling like an independent judge, a judgmental judge, in other words, they are under serious threat. This threat is not a verbal, or expressed threat of intimidation, it's almost an auto-transmittance. Because so many people are arrested for no legal reason, no evidence, that they are seriously concerned that their own platforms are facing the same threat and danger. Now, dear friends, this determination should make us all think. I wonder if the author of this report is acting in a biased manner, with party A, party B, party C, party D, or as a member of a commission that has become conscious of human rights, working in an unbiased way to govern human rights in all communities, we should all think about it. If you say this is a bias, it's not exactly the case in Turkey. I'd like to share a number that's often given here with you right away, and also the number that the official authorities have explained. For example, there are 71,274 people who have been taken into custody since July 15 or the announcement of the State of Emergency -- but we have to put them on July 15 -- 41,326. That's arrest and detention. Now, if you'll excuse me for an example. There was an evacuation order yesterday, and I know that many mothers, many families, have found the joy of this evacuation decision. Where were the evacuees, where were they stationed? They were military students, they were military students at the Air War School, they were taken to camp in command, and they were asked to be taken from the camp and used for this coup. We have stated this since the day these children were taken into custody: "Yes, let the coupters be judged and punished, of course, but do not inflict pain on a large number of people on the grounds of the coup. These children must be released immediately. They were left at the first hearing seven months later. Their indictments were prepared too late, their hearings were very late; of course, he could have stayed later, but he was moved up. Today, there are sergeants, students of the Petty Officers' School in Balıkesir, who are in the same situation; 47 children, and 9 put down, and 47 students were not left unaccounted for. Now, in this case, while this is the case, we cannot in any way defend the illegal practices that we have created based on the State of Emergency; if we defend them, we can't be considered a Parliament, friends who have come together to uphold the law here. I'll tell you another number, you hear it piece by piece, but I'll give you the final numbers: 121,183 people were exported after the State of Emergency decision after July 15th, friends, so their duties were terminated. 19,248 (a.k.a.) of those who were thrown out. Where's $120,000, guys? Where's the number 19,248? More than 80,000 or 100,000 people expect to be tried in administrative or judicial ways; they don't expect to be tried, they're actually left on the street. Mr. Prosecutor, what does the law tell us? The law says: "First collect the evidence, then collect the evidence, and then do any legal action. " People whose duties have been terminated by assumption alone. Now, I continue, the academics, scientists... 4,180 of the scientists are currently expelled from the university and 2,808 academics are unemployed because of universities that have been shut down. The academic staff under the 13,170 teaching programme has lost its staff and 156 people in prisons and 12 of our MPs are under arrest. Each one of them is in the same condition, friends, and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights clearly commands politicians to be under special protection. We, let alone politicians, citizens, or vice versa, have to say that the students of the Air War School, or others, or the teachers or doctors or engineers of Education, have failed to protect them, let alone the politicians on our stand. We all need to accept this reality together and think seriously about what can be done through it. Of course, we can't order judgment. Why do we object to the new amendment today? As our friends in Republican People's Party and other opposition parties, we say that control is essential, judicial control is essential, that if a country is struck by a coup, that country will be completely struck, condemned to darkness. Now, we can't order the judicial authorities, of course, but as politicians, we have a responsibility to express this injustice out loud. And that's why we say no to the change in the Constitution that you've brought in, all the powers, the jurisdiction, and the most important mechanism to bring the balance into the hands of a person, and we also say, under these conditions, in the conditions that we're in, in the conditions of the State of Emergency, when there's so much impossibilities, to go to the referendum under such a climb, basically, to give the opportunity to be strong about what the outcome is, but I think we should be thankful, or should all of us be thankful, that today, with a wave from the public, from the bottom, everyone is saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So I'd like to remember once again that the light of the future is in our hands by blessing all those who say no today, and I will express my confidence in the people with respect again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0093par0618	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0094par0622	St. Turkish nation, respected MPs; HDP group proposal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute you and the mighty Turkish nation. Members of the MPs, HDP's group proposal, in summary, is intended to investigate the results of the extraordinary state of state declared and the practices of this extraordinary state, which the political parties have uncovered, particularly their various practices. So in this framework, first and foremost, the state of emergency is a constitutional institution. It is a particular institution, which has a law of extraordinary state, which has a law of action, which has a constitutional and legal framework, which, as part of its application, is a framework for the extraordinary state of state in which our Constitution shall be acted, especially in the article 121, which is being implemented. That's why we, as the Nationalist Movement Party, in particular on July 15th, have taken a position to support the extraordinary state, which has been declared shortly after this great coup attempt, and we have been continuing it ever since, as long as it needs it, as long as the Turkish nation needs it, as long as it continues to fight against terror organizations. Here, after expressing that the state of emergency is a constitutional and legal institution, I find it useful to express it immediately: Yes, the state of emergency is a constitutional institution, it has a legal framework, but the practices related to it, again, must be carried out primarily in accordance with constitutional frameworks and regulations. So, with the state of emergency supported by the brief reasons that I have just described, the nationalist Movement Party will also meet the need for this responsible policy on behalf of the Turkish nation, as it has been since then, in a responsible political sense, in a way that is responsible for the impropriety of the state of emergency practices. So, how did we get to the environments that set the stage for this extraordinary state of mind, I find it useful to take a brief look at it? Indeed, the developments in our region -- because of the geostrategic position of our country, because of the developments in foreign policy, especially our neighbours -- have faced PKK terrorism, which, unfortunately, has created an extraordinary state of affairs for many years, which has already been on our agenda for many years, as well as terrorism organizations such as ISIS, PYD, as well as on July 15th. We, the National Movement Party, are a political party that has called ahead of everyone, as we have always supported the extraordinary state in the framework that I've just tried to express. For example, Mr. President, after a traitorous terrorist attack in Hakkari Çukurca, which took place five and a half years ago on October 19, 2011, 24 of our soldiers were publicly declared to be martyred as a result of PKK terror, in the name of our party, and it was unfortunate that these righteous warnings of the Nationalist Action Party in those years did not find enough response to these accurate warnings. By now, if our President-General had responded to this call in 2011, maybe we wouldn't have had to declare the state of emergency today, or we wouldn't have to apply it for that long, or we wouldn't have to apply it so broadly. That's why I have a debt to remind you of that, too. By the time of our day, the destruction of the Turkish state by which these policies, which have taken power from the great Turkish nation of the Nationalist Movement Party, are being implemented by the government today is undisputed. Terrorists, who think they can easily ambush the Turkish state once they've been dealt with by the government of the period, have received the harshest response when the Turkish nation stands up. The National Movement Party, as it has always been, first my country and nation, then my party and myself. With its national approach based on the undivisable integrity of the Republic of Turkey and its nation, has seen the imminent danger and has done its early warning duty in the process as usual. On the other hand, our party has often expressed the flaws of the arbitrary practices of the state of emergency from day one. And in this regard, Mr. President-in-chief -- as I read it -- if an officer using ByLock is ignored by a politician or a high-level bureaucrat involved in the same act while he's being arrested, that injustice and gross wrong will result in a tsunami, it will rot the society and the state's life internally. Let's not allow any country's dignity, dignity, family and social integrity to be corrupted by prejudicial provisions, false reports, and black thefts alone. Let's not tolerate it. The Turkish nation's words remain fresh in its memory. It is insincerely insincere to say that you have put your back to PKK terror, that those who claim that PKK traitors can drown Mete Khan's heir with the spit of the glorious Turkish army can, on various occasions, speak of the democratic political ground, in the lightest terms, insincerely insincere. Those who ambushed our 1,000-year-old brotherhood, attacked and then became disciples of peace were stunned and defeated by the Turkish state's effective decision to fight terrorism. Until both the terror and the extensions of PKK terror from public and universities are completely removed from the Turkish state, the Turkish nation will then speak and the terror will be silent. Here at the Faculty of Language and History-Geography a few kilometers away, the understanding that has protected and despised Turkish nationalists, who have been protecting and loving their separatist terrorist supporters for years, who have nothing to do with their country, has failed, and has been tried to break down in Language History and universities, as well as anywhere else. Those who eat the bread of the Turkish state and betray the Turkish nation will, of course, answer to the Turkish state, no matter what authority it is. The Turkish state will surely clean up any virus, any virus that's infiltrated it. Similarly, not only public employees but lawmakers have responsibilities to the Turkish state and the Turkish nation. In particular the process of treason carried out under the name "Security" was brought to the attention of four MPs from the National Movement Party's Constitution and Justice Commission for various reasons, and then the Turkish Grand National Assembly approved the Constitutional Amendment proposal for the immediate processing of these files by 367 votes. Just as a member of parliament represents the will of the nation, 367 MPs represent the will of the nation. With these changes, immunity files have been entrusted to the great Turkish judiciary, but let's go, let's give our statements in the courts. When those who say, "Let's go," unfortunately, cheap bullying has turned over to Turkish literature when they see the Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0095par0635	Here you go, complete it, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0094par0636	Thank you. Gene, I would like to finish with the words of Mr. President General: "The National Movement Party will stand by the people yesterday, today and tomorrow, in the way of Hakk, in the way of the state, and will support the government as long as it remains in a national position in the fight against terrorism. At the same time, our party will never hesitate to lay down its hands for the benefit of our victims and oppressed citizens, taking the initiative, taking responsibility, and defending its rights. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute our Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation once again.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0096par0641	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0097par0643	Mr. President, in his orator talk, he talked about doing victimology literature, talking about removing the proceedings and immunity. The MPs who are currently under arrest are only MPs from the Peoples' Democratic Party. So, there's a bit of teasing going on here. Besides, the explanation...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0098par0644	I didn't mention the name of the party or the congressman.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0096par0645	So, he said you did victimology literature?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0097par0646	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0098par0647	Read it exactly.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0099par0648	There are a lot of surrogates prepared for fezleke. Yeah, the name wasn't mentioned.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0100par0649	I promise you for two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0101par0653	First of all, the speaker actually spoke like a member of the ruling party, so we're running the State of Emergency, we're doing this, we're doing this. I wish him well in this sense. I'd like to ask you first, our people know this very well: there is talk of a constant coup attempt, but the People's Democratic Party didn't make the coup attempt, the Fetullahians did it the same way you've been walking for years. So, you brought the State of Emergency against him, you said you wanted to take precautions against him. At that time, we were defending democratic politics in this country all the time, and we are against all kinds of coups. We said, of course, we supported it because this Parliament was bombed, other places were bombed, and there was a very serious attempt. So, okay, what happened behind this? Why did you end the coup investigation commission in such a hurry? Why didn't you listen to anyone the opposition wanted? You really have to pay for this. If there was a coup attempt, if the State of Emergency was opposed, shouldn't you answer to those hundreds of thousands of people who don't know why they're being fired? Don't you have to tell me who or what it really is? As for our co-chairs on trial, the prosecutors who prepared 11 of the 31 proceedings are now under arrest for the fact that they are members of the Fetullahist building. Yeah, no one's doing any victimology literature. We're talking about real injustice, illegality. The Constitutional Court must carry out its decision, and the Constitutional Court must decide now. There's ACM, that's what we're talking about. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0102par0658	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0103par0659	Mr. President, there have been promises I haven't made. That's why I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0102par0660	I'll listen to you, Mr. Parsak, just a second. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0104par0664	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today is the third day, and I'm bringing up something that we haven't received from the President, the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. The other day, Mr. Numan Survivor has stated that he will make a statement, and there has yet to be a statement. The question is very clear: How were the same people discharged from the profession and reinstated by the same decision as the Council of Ministers, dated January 2, 2017? We're waiting for an explanation. I mean, I'm asking a very important question in terms of the understanding of government governance. Mr. Numan goes around the side of Survivor, he says, "I'll examine it and explain it to you." There are AKP's officials here, I'm asking you out loud again, and I'm going to ask you every day until I get the answer to this question: how were the same individuals expelled from their jobs and how were they extradited by the Council of Ministers on January 2, 2017? I'm waiting for an answer to that obvious question.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0105par0667	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0106par0668	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0105par0669	Mr. Parsak...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0106par0670	Sir, the speaker just made a statement saying things I didn't say, so I'd like to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0107par0671	What did he say?
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0105par0672	Here you go, Mr. Parsak. And I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0108par0676	Thank you. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, the words of the National Movement Party and the representatives of the National Movement Party, as requested, or as understood and understood as it came to work, are unfortunately continuing to develop a defence and statement. In my speech on this group proposal, it's clear to me from the very beginning. We, the Nationalist Movement Party, also say that the extraordinary state of the Turkish state needs to continue as long as the Turkish state needs it, is determined so far, but we also express that we are in the face of all the irregularities during these practices. Even though I have expressed these things, an argument to speak as if I were a member of the ruling party is, above all, injustice, injustice. It is also unfair to criticize us for using the concept of us as a subject to our style. We, the National Movement Party, now as we say, call the Turkish nation "We." We call it the Turkish state. Other than that, the government is clear, its practices are obvious, and in its historical process, as the National Movement Party, our attitudes and approaches are obvious, and so is the issue. Once again, we, the National Movement Party, are determined to support as much as the extraordinary situation needs to go on, at the point of support, and we will continue. We will continue to face the constitutional framework and the practice of its practices, as well as the victims, injustices, all kinds of mistakes and irregularities that could occur during its implementation, and we will continue to face it today and tomorrow, just as yesterday. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit01spe0109par0681	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0109par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will begin talks by the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 1st among the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation, in Competitive Aid and Approvement of the Restitution of Criminals. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 439 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? There isn't. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the wake of the Republic of Turkey and the Russian federasyon, the defence has yet to be carried out in accordance with the terms of the defense and the understanding of the guilty. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 1 December 2014 in Ankara, with the ratification of the Criminal Aid and Restitution Agreement for Criminals between the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation. On the 1st article, political party groups have demands for their words. The first speaker for the groups is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0110par0019	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, one of the two treaties made with the Russian Federation is related to this law, but the developments we've experienced recently are that on the other side of the Syrian border, we have soldiers who have been martyred in the operation of the Fırat Shield; first of all, I ask God's mercy on all of them, our nation's head. Of course, within that scope, our soldiers were killed and others injured in a target hit by Russian planes. We, particularly Antalya MPs, have closely observed the problems of tourism and agriculture after the crisis with Russia. We've expressed our concerns about this crisis, and we've discussed what needs to be done with the ministers, with earlier proposals for research, off the agenda, and on the agenda. Of course, it's impossible to approve of a return to such a crisis. However, I would like to share with you here that we do not find the statement that Russia made very satisfying and that more serious initiatives should be made. Dear friends, the president of this matter has made it clear to you and to the public that this cannot be avoided by a simple apology and that coordination must be followed more seriously and ensured. Because in his statement, the Turkish Armed Forces have shared with the public that for ten days, our troops have been in that area and that they have been reported to the units that have already been assigned to the relevant units that are co-ordinating. So, in the process, we invite all countries to be sensitive about it. We demand that the coalition forces that are there, the Russian Federation, the United States, and the other coalition forces, co-ordinate on this matter, be removed from the terrorist organizations of that region as soon as possible. And here, my lord, he's fighting with the DAIST. Let's talk about the PYD, we'll use the YPG, and then we'll see what happens. Such approaches are not acceptable to the Republic of Turkey. When we look at it in this context, unfortunately, we find the Russian Federation's attitude to be twofold. Because on the one hand, the fact that a draft constitution was leaked -- although it wasn't officially confirmed -- and the fact that some talks have been held over it, some media organs are having discussions about them, sort of showing that exercises have been conducted. There's no way we're going to let a failure happen there as Turkey. In this regard, in 2012, Mr. President-General had already indicated that terrorism must be purged and that a safe zone should be established there, but at the point we're here today, the safety zone, the security zone debates are seen to have other ulterior motives. Therefore, we think that these problems should be resolved within Syria's territorial integrity, primarily by providing their safety and then by providing them with housing in that secure area, where the Syrians are now refugees in Turkey. Of course, we can't ask for a new crisis from the beginning -- but we think that the Republic of Turkey has the right to protect its own interests, and that the main point of talks with all countries should be based on it; otherwise, it will not be possible for this terrorist zone to be cleaned up and re-opened. In this case, the area - as we said from the beginning - must be cleaned from the Kandil to the Afrin. We also feel that the proposals said by Russia alone were not true and were offered in different ways only by half - considered cultural autonomy. In some Israeli publications or in the United States, some maps are also being discussed about this region. We, the National Movement Party, always prioritize the interests of the Turkish state, the Turkish nation. In this context, it is impossible to agree to anything that might have happened against Turkey. On this occasion, we believe that the interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey should be protected and more effective in the talks at Astana, the renegotiations in Geneva, and the discussions within this scope. Again, the discussion about Cyprus shows that some of the points are more polite -- let me tell you. Unfortunately, I've read some of the interviews that Mr. Rafýçı had done, and that's what the Turkish media said. Our call still hasn't been answered. Mr. Secretary of State, but in closed session but in different ways, I think it would be right for him to give us a little bit more detailed information on the issues we're concerned about and the progress of the negotiations, because it can't be solved without what Mr. Rashici said, and let's compromise in this business. So in the background, some negotiations were being made, and the map was placed in the vault. It's called, but we don't know what's being discussed, we don't know what's going on. For him, we feel that the Supreme Assembly should be informed in a separate session of these matters. As a matter of fact, we stand by all of the agreements in favor of our nation, defending the interests of our state, all of these votes here, and we look at the agreement in this context as well. On this occasion, however, we also feel that relations with Russia should also be reviewed, especially what happened with Syria, and what happened there with the NYD, as well as what happened with the YPG. Because beyond these constitutional debates, we don't see the YPG as a terrorist organization by Russian authorities in parallel at the time of our troops' shooting. The statement came, which should mean something different, I hope they're being considered in negotiations. And as I said, we'd be glad to know more about it. On this occasion, I wish you all the best of terms.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0111par0030	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0112par0034	Mr. President, yes, dear friends, there is nothing to object to the fact that Russia and the extradition of criminals have been reached, but we hope that the day will come when agreements with Russia will also address matters other than strength and money. In fact, we have been objecting to the idea that Russia and Turkey had been in conflict from the beginning. When the Soviet Union was in the 1960s, Russia, then Turkey and the Soviet Union would want to be friends, and today Russia would be ruled by some kind of one-man regime, and we would like to have friendship between the peoples of Russia and our peoples. Of course, before the government, citizens see it much better. Our party was on its way to Moscow to become a bridge between the people of the two countries, while the government has yet to explain how well it crashed the plane in a crisis that caused the crash of the Russian plane. So those who call our co-chair, now that their soldiers have been killed every day, you've had an accident with those who rule Russia, we understand. So roles can change very quickly. However, we need to take a serious look at the question of whether this can make a major change in Turkey's international position? Because President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his party, the will that governs Turkey, tends to view their relationship with Russia as the beginning of a change of position in Turkey's global system as ▪prelude. He made it clear that he wanted Russia to be his instrument of involvement in the Shanghai Five. But I'm very skeptical that the Shanghai Co-operation Organization will replace Turkey's regime of treaties today, because Turkey is essentially in an international position that connects itself with the principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, while the Shanghai Co-operation Organization is essentially taking human rights as an internal issue and tends to view it as a very fundamental problem. So the main principle is that such enthusiastic meetings with non-human rights institutions and organizations, yes, let there be no hostility, but let there be no such unprincipled relationships in the palas pandrums. We consider human rights to be the main focus of all international issues and domestic affairs. We don't think that any country that doesn't respect human rights, doesn't respect human rights, doesn't include all international agreements within its own internal law, and no institution can be a lifesaver's lamb. On the other hand, we always have doubts about international relations and pacts that do not make them a principle. Human rights is not a national issue, it's an international matter, it's a matter beyond the nations. Besides, if peace and brotherhood are the basis in the world, then one day human rights will be the basis of all countries. The 90th article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, in this regard, is still one of the most important handles the people of Turkey have in spite of the outstanding decrees under law, because international agreements adopted according to the principle of the 90th Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey are under law. It cannot be applied to the Constitutional Court on charges of unconstitutionality. ...international agreements are based on inter-national agreements in disputes due to different provisions of the law on the same issue. On this basis, the People's Democratic Party conducts relations and diplomacy both within Turkey and internationally. Yes, we're conducting a citizen diplomacy because I'm talking about me the other day when I'm not here, and I'm talking about it. Unlike Hamza Mountain, who said, "The Court of Human Rights of Europe, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is an organic part of the Republic of Turkey in this constitutional decree." Turkey's borders do not end on the geographical borders of the republic. All the international space where it can spread with all these deals is our political land, our legal land. Therefore, where the Supreme Court declares itself unauthorized, the European Court of Human Rights is our court. In front of this court, the persecution of our co-chairs, the persecution of our MPs, the persecution of our people, is not to complain to the world of Turkey, it is to defend our rights in front of the judge we appointed. He can't wave the stick at us because we went to court, the last authority, who took the bat, beat up the people, imprisoned the MP. We will continue to defend our people's rights with equal rights and equal power everywhere. Diplomacy isn't just a government monopoly. The world has changed, there's civil diplomacy, and we have diplomacy, and this diplomacy has put an end to international governments wandering around the village without a cane. We are on the Council of Europe, we are in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and since it is us, the opinion of Turkey is discussed twice. They listen to the government, then they listen to the opposition, they listen to the People's Democratic Party. If the People's Democratic Party were not right, it would have had no more influence with two members than with 11 members of the Justice and Development Party on the Council of Europe. As we endured this righteousness, I'm afraid Nursuna Haným lost her job last semester, and I hope that I'll also be able to put Talip Littlecan out of his job, and my friend Fíliz will have his share. So don't let anyone tell us that because we're looking for rights, we're claiming rights. It's not like Hamza to be our friend. When he was not yet born, let us race together in Turkey, in Izwar. The people he called Turkey would cross the mountain, the stone, the land, fight for the rights of workers, peasants, the poor, and fight for it. What does he think he's gonna scare us with, what he thinks he's gonna scare us with? We can't come to Turkey. Ah, here we are. Is there? You had something to do, and I'm stopping you? Come on, I'm here. Do what you gotta do. Well, you can't judge a congressman by the sewer pits of Turkish media; there's no such thing, there's no right to anyone. You can live in those lies in the empire of lies, but when we bathe in the light of truth, you keep all that dirt, and we come out bright and clear. For all these reasons, dear friends, since human rights are an international issue, we will continue to defend the rights of both here and everywhere, of the oppressed Kurdish people, of all the oppressed peoples of Turkey, of Turk, of Kurdish, of women and men, because human rights are not a national issue. If you want the European institutions, the institutions in which Turkey is a direct member of the truth, you have to have value in the public; you have to expect something from you, you have to see something, you have to represent a higher level of civilization so that they can compress the MPs. The values of the people today are consistent with the values of Peoples' Democratic Party lawmakers, which, in all these institutions, the Justice and Development Party sees only and only at the level of governments, but its reputation in all parliaments, unfortunately, is behind the People's Democratic Party. We'll end all this on April 16th, I hope. Our people will make this decision using the right to say "No." They'll say "No." They'll say "No." I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0113par0043	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. The other speaker on the 1st article is Serdal Welcuoğlu, Mersin MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Wellencuoğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0114par0047	I have made a commitment to a deal with the Russian Federation, 439 rows. On this occasion, I salute you with respect, with love. As we begin with international contracts, I'd like to talk to you about some of the issues that concern our region and our country. I hereby salute you all again. Dear MPs, when we look at the geography we live in, we understand once again the importance of the promise of Ataturk. In the globalized world, it's important to open up, develop economic relationships, but it's not right to interfere in other countries' internal affairs, export regimes. It's one thing to support the growth of democracy in every country, but it's not the right of any country to intervene in domestic affairs. The Republic of Turkey, which has been part of the democratic bloc for many years, must take into account criticism and warnings. Especially in the last five years, we've had a heavy bill of false foreign policies. In support of the Syrian civil war, 3 million Syrian immigrants have been accepted into our country, 20 billion dollars have been spent on them, and it is unclear how many more years we will spend. There have been wars in Syria, dozens of martyrs, and there is no telling when we will leave. We have a bloody knife with the Iraqi government. We've had serious problems with Russia, we've dropped planes, economic and political relations have been broken down, we've been tried to fix it with apologies, and now we've come to the point where new tensions can happen at any moment because of the shooting of our soldiers. We're on separate fronts because of Iran and Syria. We disagreed with the United States of America, which we called our strategic partner of the years. With the European Union, we are at odds with democracy, human rights and antidemocratic practices, and we are nervous. We provide visa liberalisation with the European Union. We're far from joining the European Union. And finally, with our efforts to change the regime, we've reached the point of breaking relations with almost all democratic countries. I'm hoping that these mistakes will be returned as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you another matter I consider important. We all regretfully watched and continue to watch the ISIS terrorist organization destroy cultural heritage in Iraq and Syria. Thousands of years of history in the cradle of civilization, unfortunately, is being erased from a world scene. I'd like to make a point of how much we claim our cultural and historical heritage as a country. What I'd like to focus on is our cultural heritage, which has been sent abroad in any way, and what steps have we taken in this regard? The cultural heritage is all of the values that seem important to future generations to protect and preserve all the products, artifacts, objects, and societies that are meant to be inherited from the past and to inherit the future. When we ask, "How long have we maintained these values? " Unfortunately, we are not getting good answers. First of all, during the period of the dissolution and collapse of the Ottoman Empire, sometimes many of our works, including the knowledge of state institutions, have been moved to Western countries. These kidnapped artifacts are adorn the museums of many Western countries today. Although few artifacts have been returned, many of Anatolia's unique works are still found abroad. Dear MPs are the most popular countries of our work, Germany, Austria, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Britain, Greece, the United States and the Russian Federation. For example, we learn that the Trojan artifacts were smuggled from our country to Germany in 1873, and after World War II, three gold caged chests produced 1,538 pieces on May 5, 1945, the Russians received it as a war compensation from the Germans and carried it to Moscow. These works are exhibited at the Pushkin Museum in Moscow today. These artifacts were moved in 23 years. The Ayan Council's Act of Atika forbids it. Another interesting point is that to dig for the Germans and to take the artifacts from these excavations abroad, Sultan II. They claim to have received permission from Abdulhamit. So, basically, they say they did it with the Sultan's permission. However, even if the sultan gave such a permit, it was invalid because it was forbidden to carry the artifacts according to the law approved by the House at the time. Also, Sultan II. If such a permit has been obtained from Abdulhamit, the document must be presented, or we must ask for it. To give an example, the Germans, who took many historical artifacts from Anatolia to their country during their excavation, continue to dig up Bergama, where they began in 1864. These excavations have been going on for almost a hundred and sixty years. Bergama is in Turkey, but the Bergama Museum is in Berlin. Why can't we call it "stop." Likewise, the excavation, which had been launched by the Austrians in Ephesus for a hundred and twenty years, has only recently been halted due to some problems between our country and Austria in recent days. For example, if Turkish archaeologists had dug for a hundred and twenty years in Germany or Austria and brought their work to Turkey, would their government have allowed it? The question here is, aren't there teams of specialists in our country to do these excavations? Why has the development of and development of environments in which academic research can be conducted, especially with the support of different disciplines? Again, shouldn't we have the will to reclaim our artifacts from countries like England, Austria, Russia? In this regard, the work of teams of countries that are still in our country digging and suspected of missing artifacts must be terminated immediately. In these talks, steps must be taken by the United Nations to change the rules for illegal art extradition. In short, each country has the right to protect, hide, and transfer its heritage to its future generations because every historical and cultural monument has its properties and its true value and meaning. Dear lawmakers, no reason can justify taking away a country's cultural assets from its homeland. Each country's original work is shaped by thousands of years of spoken, written, and visual culture of its geography. An ancient artifact taken from the geography of which it was created and taken to another country is no more than a prisoner locked up in iron bars where a brief glance was seen and passed through where it was exhibited. The power says Turkey is strong. Powerful power is the country that holds the stolen history and its works. I want the government to calm the tears of Anatolia, and to show them the will to bring their work abroad to their land, to their birthplaces, to Anatolia, and to bring them back, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit02spe0115par0061	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of the law, I recommend that the following international agreements be put to your votes by separate electronic voting devices: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm not going to repeat the general rules of open voting every time. I'm going to read it right now, and the rules I'm going to give you for your information apply to all open voting. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, and in spite of that help, the members who can't get into the system, deliver the ballots to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote. Also, I'd like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game and the ballot bearing its signature with his name and name, again, in the two minutes scheduled for the vote. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The open vote of Bill 439 was not enough for the meeting. Now, I'm going to put the bill back to your votes. I'll give you three minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to your information that the open vote of the Dair Legislature (Secretary) between the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation is in accordance with the Agreement on Reciprocal Aid and Restitution of Criminals. [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the European Parliamentary Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place, in favour of ratification of the Strategic Partnership and Friendship Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the European Parliamentary Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Government of Greece. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of the State of Turkey between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Court of Habibe Kadiri Girls Schools in the District of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between Turkey and Iran and the Government of Iran in Turkey-Iran. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 355 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICITY OF REPUBLICITY WITH THE REPUBLIC REPUBLICITY OF TOURCY INTERVIEWS, INTERVIEWING THE NEW KUDUT DOORS TO OPEN. MADDE 1- (1) 16/9/2010 was signed in İstanbul and approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between Turkey-Iran Hududüdü to open the New Black Border Gates. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Baki Simsek, Mersin MP, who wants to speak on the 1st article. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0116par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on an international agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran. As the National Movement Party, we support many of the agreements made with other countries in international agreements. We also support the international agreement on the Islamic Republic of Iran as the National Movement Party at the point of opening the border gates in order to increase trade. I'd like to talk today about the earthquake that's been going on in the original Çanakkale Ayvacık region for days. I'd like to share our impressions of the region with you in our review of the nationalist movement party, as instructed by our president in the Çanakkale Ayvacık region. An earthquake occurred in approximately 21 settlements, including Upperköy, Tuzla, Çamkabalak, Çamtepe, Kızılkeçılı and Gülköy. Over a thousand buildings were damaged during this earthquake, with over 480 ▪ heavily damaged. From the early hours of the earthquake, our governorship of Çanakkale, AFAD and other institutions have been working on mobilisation of urgent needs. Eight of our citizens have been injured, seven of them discharged, one of our citizens is being treated at the hospital. Again, after the earthquake, by means of the Kızılay relief trucks, some 500 ▪ tented the region, and sent about 500 ▪ containers to the region, where our citizens who had been destroyed had their homes inhabited. However, as of the season, our people living in the tent are facing great challenges. The number of containers is not at the required level as of yesterday, there are shortcomings. Again, our citizens in the region have a need for warmth. Of course, this area needs the governor's office, and there's also a transfer of funds to the House of Ayvatiks in order to meet the urgent needs here. But all of our villages are mountain villages and are the regions of the Yörık. All of our people in this region are really struggling with living conditions from maybe fifty-six years ago, all living in houses made of bricks. Imagine, nearly 1,000 buildings were damaged in an earthquake of 5.3, 2017. Really, we need to turn this into an opportunity. The number one priority that people in this region now want is to have new housing built by our government before winter comes next year. May God not destroy our state, our nation. We don't complain much about the services that are being done right now. We just want to be able to build the housing that we can live in before next winter. They call it. And they don't want to leave their area because 90 percent of the people in this area who have been damaged have been dealing with livestock, maybe 10 or 15 percent of the agriculture. Here, again, they demand that the dwellings be built according to their needs. Of course, the earthquake also damaged what we call the stables and stables where people live with their homes. And the only thing that's relevant to these are containers, tents, food, maybe they're just temporary, day-to-day needs, but the people here are really poor. These are waiting for cash assistance, at least waiting for help from the state so that they can make their own stables, provide for their immediate needs, and also delay their debt to agriculture loans, Agriculture Bank and other banks. Now, Mr. Minister of Agriculture has made a general statement about this agricultural loan and the Agricultural Bank loans, saying the debt of defaulters can be fixed by five years, but we don't think that's true. Today, farmers everywhere are suffering from the Russian crisis and the developments in the Middle East, not just the debt of people entering default. We expect the Ministry of Agriculture to revisit this, canceling farmers' debt interest all over Turkey, for at least five years, including the capital, Çanakkale, Ayvacık and Mersin -- there is already too much damage due to the natural disaster -- to make sure that our Ministry of Agriculture does the necessary work. And here, of course, it's become a bit of an urban legend among people, where there are a lot of drilling wells, thermal wells opened, the villagers talking among themselves, they say these wells triggered the earthquake here. Of course, there hasn't been a scientific study of this yet, but it's still necessary for our governorship and Department of Environment and Urbanism to determine if the drillings are connected to the earthquake in this region. And, of course, our people who live here are actually guarding the mountains there. They're all loyal to their country, their nation. Our people who have never faced the government, who have always expressed their gratitude and gratitude to the government. We expect all their urgent demands to be met. The AFAD also sent about 500,000 TL (500,000 TL) aid to the region, sending 500,000 TL grants. In addition to additional needs due to increased aftershocks, the damage found here has been requested for additional 1.5 million dollars. Again, I would like to ask that this request of assistance be met by the AFAD... We learned from officials there that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has also earmarked a $50,000 grant to provide for the needs of the people who live here, according to information from our governorates. Again, about the increase of this grant, the supply of cash, the education of these children of Yörük, who live here at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... These children are now... and the schools are also suspended because of the earthquake damage. The container schools are being set up right now. Those whose homes aren't damaged can't send their children to schools because of fear, and they can't enter homes themselves. They demand that these container schools be completed as soon as possible and start training at these schools at least next week, and that their children remain behind in education. Again, I would like to ask that our Ministry of National Education and our governorship meet these needs at once. But before that, as a social project for these children of Yörek, indeed, all over Turkey today, the Yurks are struggling to survive under very heavy conditions, very difficult conditions, living in tents. As a social policy, I demand that the state of Turkey, which extends its hand to everyone, provides free health care to 3 million Syrians, meets their needs, spends nearly $10 billion to the Syrians, do a social project on the Yörks, and that these Yurks who guard the mountains all over Turkey, build housing in the winter that they can live comfortably for at least three or five months, and that our ministries are already a Yörk boy. Really, when we see the conditions of people's lives there, I think there are images that don't suit Turkey in 2017. In that region, our state, of course, has met certain needs, but indeed the Çanakkale County Special Administration and other institutions in this region are the basic needs of this region, except for the afette, I don't include disaster, the state has done its best to this side of the disaster, but when we saw our villages 5060 years ago, with kerb buildings like in many parts of Turkey, with no infrastructure, with many villages, with no roads, no streets, maybe even in the drinking waters. The completion of the shortcomings, turning this disaster into an opportunity for those in this village who have not been damaged -- because the majority of the houses have been damaged at 5.3, and if there were a six-alarm, seven-alarm earthquake, there would not be a single house in that village -- all of the people living in that area -- 8,000 people in one, but perhaps 1,000-1 as a dwelling. When a 500-to-500 dwelling is built, the problem will be solved for all the people in this region. I wish that we could turn this into an opportunity, that our people in this region would be given human housing next year, and I thank everyone who's done it, and I give my regards.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0117par0054	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Yaz, I believe you have a request for the 60th Amendment. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0118par0059	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank the MHP delegation and our representative for their interest in the region and for their positive criticism. I was in Upperville and our nearby villages on Monday and the first day of the earthquake. Thank God we're having a disaster that can be avoided without loss of life, along with its backsmen that have been going on for a week. It's true what they say, the people of the region are nervous. Right now, there's an uncertain waiting for what the earthquake is going to be, but from the very first hour, our government is working with all of its units, AFAD, Rediay, the governorate, and all the units you can think of. In the co-ordinating of our Ayvacik municipality, including all AK PARTY and other municipalities in Çanakkale, we provide our citizens with three meals of hot food and necessary supplies...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0117par0062	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Go, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0118par0063	Okay. I, too, received blessings and thanks from all the villages in the region the other day, and I find it helpful to state that. Surely, he said, "Let's turn the depression into an opportunity." Our friend said, "I agree with that to the end, and we're working to repair all the bad buildings in that area, so that they don't see any damage." Our 485 containers are now operational, 200 more containers are gone. Both our tent and container needs are being completed day by day. In accordance with the structure and architecture of the region, our other homes were launched, not by TOKI standards, but by regional standards.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0119par0065	Without disrupting the cultural tissue.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0118par0066	The correspondence of our governorship and the Finance Ministry is being completed, and hopefully the necessary work will be done in the meantime to ensure that the loans are postponed without interest, and the wounds of the region will be covered in the best possible manner. I'd like to say one last thing about education, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0120par0069	Thank you, Mr. Go. We're saying get well with all the Çanakkalians. On the 1st article, secondly, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diriyet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0121par0077	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In about a week, nearly 1,000 of our friends were taken into custody. Most of these are our party managers, members, members of the CDC, members of our women's council staff; again, among those thousand, we have friends and friends in the locals who are responsible for the safety of the chest. A member of the AKP had just expressed his views on these detentions and political genocide operations: All these arrests and detentions were expressed in the framework of a certain political operation and, frankly, terrorism. We'd like to rephrase that this is a perception operation, because on the way to the referendum process, I'd like to tell you once again that these operations for our party are not random at all, as opposed to the perception that they're meant to be created here, that they're actually due to fear, anxiety from April 17th. Again, you know that the judgment is in your hands, the police are in your hands, the press is in your control and your sovereignty. And if that's not enough, I'd also like to say that you've also developed a digestive system with these operations against us, which are actually working day and night, trying to oppose us. Again, of course, a continuation of these digestive operations... You gave your first start on November 4th, and you actually started it with an operation on 12 of our 12 MPs, including our co-Chair, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. I'd like to say here today, again, that you've upset a perception operation and the fact that you're expressing all of our work or our friends' arrest process. And you know that if you're going to come up here and bring a review of our representatives' political work, then we're obviously going to advise you to look at the indictments prepared by the prosecutors, because everything that is actually found in these indictments is what our friends say on this stand, what they do in the field, and you know that our friends have been arrested for three months. Now you're trying to prosecute this country in the same way that you're running this country with a bag of laws. Look, you're actually inventing crime by putting together conversations at different times and different dates as if they were crimes. Well, once again, everything expressed there is just the power of speech, and you're afraid of the power of words. It's the promise you've imprisoned today, and I'd like to bring it to your attention once again. Again, the AKP speaker who was just speaking here had returned to our ranks, saying, "Show your face." He said something about it. I mean, politically, he tried to say that we were inconsistencies, but whatever we said yesterday, we're saying the same thing here on this stand today. If you want to see a political discrepancy, when you come to power in 2002, listen to the videos, the talks, you'll see that you'll be facing a AKP power that denies what you said yesterday. Once again, we suggest that if you're going to make such a statement to us here again, we advise you to look at your 14 years of politics, your practice. Again, it was one of all the provinces that had been involved in these arrests and political operations recently, and it was actually my science that got its share of this persecution. Recently, dozens of friends have been arrested from our co-chairs to our party executives, from our city council members to our city general council members, and we still have friends in custody. Now, what is the reason for this trend, that is, that is, that I am so moved by Pain? Frankly, I'd like to talk a little bit about that as well. Pain is a city with 500,000 inhabitants. Clearly, no one has thought of anything like serving Pain, since Pain was the province of Pain, expressing Pain's problems, and resolving the problem of Pains from a different front in this service, which has not occurred to any government, which has not occurred to you. You also received three deputies at one time -- one time you received four deputies from Ağrı, one time you made a lot of promises, you gave away hope, and then what happened? When you came to Ankara with all these promises and hopes in your pocket, you forgot them all. If you hadn't forgotten, today's problems in Pain would not continue. I mean, I can count a thousand things about Pain's problems, but I don't have time, I just want to mention a few of them briefly. If those promises had really been fulfilled, there wouldn't be a hospital problem today that hasn't been over for five years. When you go up to the pain at about 6:00 p.m., you're clearly blind from the fog layer, having trouble breathing. So don't get me wrong, this is the industrial city of Pain, it's got a lot of factories, so don't think it's covered by a layer of fog from it. That's because, in fact, the cheap coal you distribute is from this. It's getting harder to breathe in pain. Yes, natural gas pipelines pass through Pain, but since you can't think of taking advantage of Pain from these natural gas pipelines, people have to use cheap coal and are also having trouble breathing in a way. Therefore, the problems of Pain are too much; I can list thousands of problems from education to health, keeping from unemployment to social problems, from immigration to current poverty. But let me make it clear to you that when Pain came to your mind, when Pain met service, its history was 2014. In the 2014 local elections, despite all the tricks, despite the recounting of the polls, the people of Pain have put their will and put ours on our side. We have been chosen for a great number of times in East White, in Diyadin, in Pain, and in Tuqak, and our co-chairs have begun their work. For the first time in his history, the people of Pain, who did not know what service was in his 90 years, faced a democratic, equal sense of service. Has this sense of service been rewarded? No, unfortunately, the people of Ağrı, our co-chairs, our executives, were once again punished in person because in many ways our Co-Chair Rohat Özbay and Delal Tekdemir, again our Co-Chair Firat Ozturk, again our wife President Hazal Aras and Ağrı. So, people of Pain, our co-chairs, once again, have been punished for their service. Again, recently, yes, often the MPs, ministers, come and go to Ağar. They make a lot of promises, and we follow them. So I just want to say that we're not uncomfortable with them, and we're actually very happy with them because we know very well that our struggle here has evolved as a result of our opposition. But if you really want to serve the people of Pain, if you really want to know the will of the people of Pain, then you have to learn to respect your chosen will. See, there's a preacher here who said, "You're dividing the people, we're actually representatives of 79 million." It's not us, but you who divide the people with these practices, because you ignore the will of a certain people, as if they didn't go to the chest, choose, or express their will. I don't know that will. So we'd like to ask you once again, based on what power you've been able to use above the will of this people, we don't like it, but instead we've appointed a trustee and a trustee in your place. So when we wake up on the morning of April 17th, the people of Pain will once again respond to your policies on June 7th with a large no. And I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0122par0093	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. On the 1st article, third, the Republican People's Party Group will speak for Denizli MP Kazim Asslan. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0123par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I'm here to present our views between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the opening of the New Black Border Doors in Turkey-Iran Hududu, and the draft of the Dair Law on Approvement of The Covenant. My dear friends, of course the border doors are very important, and neighbourly relationships are very important. We think it would be very helpful for these relationships to be maintained and our relations with our neighbors to be perfected both politically and commercially. Therefore, we approve of this agreement and vote positively. Dear lawmakers, of course, there's no need to talk too much about this agreement here, but I'd like to talk about our agenda, our main agenda, the issues that really wear us out and also direct our work on the referendum. My dear friends, on April 16, 2017, we will hold a referendum. Before the referendum starts, we can clearly see that a lot of mistakes, a lot of shortcomings, political favours, immediately come forward. For example, we find that visual media broadcasts should be carried out equally, while any complaint about this is strictly against the principle of equality that the Supreme Election Board will not assess and will not intervene. I'd like to point out that this decision must be immediately waived. My dear friends, we're going to the referendum now, but you've declared a state of emergency in the court of law, and you want to conduct this referendum by terrorizing the citizens in a situation like this. To hold a referendum in such an environment, to carry out the Constitutional Amendment... must never forget that this constitutional amendment will always be a matter of debate. Because I would like to point out that the change in this environment will come to an end and that the true will of people will not be reflected in the chest. For him, I would like to point out that it would be useful for this referendum to be held during a normal period of time by rapidly eliminating the state of emergency, because it was an application for the rescue of Turkey from the terror spiral to prevent terrorism, not for a referendum, not for a constitutional amendment. It is absolutely impossible to reconcile this practice with the Constitutional Amendment, my friends. My dear friends, Turkey has no presidential problems, its problems are obvious, especially the problems with terrorism, the problems with the economic crisis have reached a crucial point. It is a fact that every change you make without normalizing Turkey, without eradicating the economic crisis, without preventing terrorism, will not be viewed positively, but will always be a subject of debate. So let's explore, my dear friends, if there's anything that the country can really prevent, instead of imaginary rhetoric, with this referendum. For example, can terrorism really be avoided by the referendum? I'm afraid not. Will unemployment be prevented? I'm afraid not. Is the shopkeeper going to be all right? I'm afraid not. Will the farmer's income increase? I'm afraid not. Will the pension increase? I'm afraid not. Will production and investment increase exports; will employment increase? I'm afraid not. Will the citizen's debt be reduced? I'm afraid not. Will the economic crisis be over? I'm afraid not. I would like to point out that there is no real point in this referendum being held within such a no. My dear friends, this referendum, this constitutional amendment will not solve any problems in the country, it will even disrupt domestic peace in the country, it will increase segregation, it will accelerate polarisation. This change is therefore heading towards a regime change. Every change you make is certainly intended for the removal of the secular republic, the state of social law, the establishment of a new regime, a new system, order, and the presidential name. Whatever its name is, whether it's the president or something else, it's a fact that it's going to be a whole presidential system. You also want to bring a change that will wipe out the system of the secular Republic of Turkey, which Ataturk has established and entrusted to us. You know, you know, democracy for democracy isn't a goal for us, it's a tool. You know, democracy is like a train, you can get on and get off wherever you want. My dear friends, now, our people will certainly not give us a chance to make this change, but they will say no at the referendum. With our work, with the illumination of our people, with the information we're about to give our people, I'd like to point out in particular that there will definitely be a no-no referendum. With this change, you want to take full authority on one person. Now, look, there will be a person, an official, a president of the Republic, who will come under the name of the president. Two: He will be chairman of the Council of Ministers, and the prime minister will be removed. Again, apart from that, he'll be president of the National Security Board. He'll be commander-in-chief. He will also have a weight over the Supreme Court by appointing 12 of the 15 members of the Constitutional Court. In addition, he will have six members of the 13 members he will elect to the Council of Judges and Prosecutors and a president who will also have weight over judges and prosecutors, who has chosen the republic's attorney and deputy. Having a president elected in such a structure will now be punished with a criminal obligation. It is not believable. When you go up against him with the judges you've chosen, you throw out a quarter of the court judge, you have an influence on prosecutors, judges, and if you make a mistake about it, there's absolutely no way that the court will punish you when you come before the Supreme Court, my friends. It's definitely not believable, it's wrong. Therefore, you reveal an irresponsible system of presidential office, which is equipped with all sorts of powers, all the powers, but has no responsibility, with the lawmakers he has chosen as president of a party, and the MP he has appointed himself to be president of the Supreme Court with 400 MPs, which is absolutely no criminal responsibility, which has been removed. Although it is in the Constitution, it is certainly not possible to apply it. Why am I saying this? It happened in the past. It's the same with the four ministers in your party whose crimes are stable due to December 17th-25th investigation, but unfortunately you haven't been able to make a decision about them and send them to the Supreme Court, and you won't be able to send this one. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0124par0112	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you two minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I present to you the conclusion of the open vote on the opening of the New Black Border Doors between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Iranian Islamic Republic's Government: ▪ Number of votes used: 199 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We begin talks between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the Approval of Defence Industry Business Association Agreement (1/331) and the National Defence and Foreign Commission Reports. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 137 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONSIDERING OF THE CONTROL FOR THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROL OF THE COMMUNATION OF TURCEMENT OF TURITY INDONESIA The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Defence Industry Business Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, which was signed in Ankara on June 29, 2010. There is a demand for political party groups on the 1st article, and I will meet them. The first speaker is Erhan Usta, Samsun MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0125par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made an international agreement between the Turkish Republic's government and the Indonesian government on defence industry co-operation. We have no opposition to this agreement. I'd like to take this opportunity to discuss some of the issues on the agenda. We keep saying that Turkey is under siege of terror, and our country is going through a really tough time. On July 15th, there was a treacherous coup attempt in our country, and the pains of this coup attempt are still essentially continuing. Of course, we've always supported the fight against ▪, the important part of the decisions made in this scope, but we've always expressed that we support the struggle with ا, but we need to stick to the principles of the legal state while doing so, and we need to create as little harm as possible, and if possible, there should be no harm done. But at the point where we're here today, it's clear that there are some aspects of this struggle that have caused serious casualties. Here, of course, what we expect is that this struggle should not be fought in a way that darkens the future of our country, so if we continue this struggle in a way that will affect the future of our country in the next decade, we will suffer a great deal of damage. Society is very tense, nervous for various reasons. Well, there's some serious economic difficulties, and we're talking about the economy all the time. There's been an incident in my constituency, especially recently. Our people have fallen into the hands of these loan sharks. There are suicides due to loan sharking. The other day, while I was wandering around the Demetevs -- where is this state, where is this courthouse, where the police are -- they put it on the floor. There are ads on the floor: no bail, no bonds, nothing, no credit! They're obviously all loan sharks, people falling into the hands of loan sharks. We've just discussed the extent of moral corruption as part of the group's proposal from the National Party for Action. I mean, people have become desperate for marriage programs, they're in demand here, and it's a very serious moral denominator in our society. On the other hand, there are victims here and there. Of course, the ruling group -- especially I want to tease them in that sense -- because they didn't listen to their victims, none of them knew what was going on because they didn't open their door. The government is not available, and the government's rulers are not aware of it. But those who rule the state say: "Don't be fooled by tears; if you feel pity in this struggle, you will be miserable. " So, therefore, the prosecutor, the judge or the police, or the administrators, acting out of fear, victimizing the children of the nation. We need to be more careful here. In fact, when we listen to people, there's really no way that you can't change your mind. What we know, I mean, there's no way that he's going to commit any kind of crime against his government, very innocent, very simple, how people who belong to his country are victims, how tears turn into blood, we're listening in tears, friends. We therefore demand that the government and the ruling party group, which governs the government, also open its doors and listen to these victims. Now, of course, we've told you how to fight. We need to act within the principles of the legal state. You don't give people the right to defend. A lot of people, the people who have been expelled, and the people who are now under arrest, are a significant part of our citizens guilty or not guilty. He was never given the right to defend himself in any way, and based on the information of the Security Directorate and the intelligence agency, where we've always pointed out, which is where the police officers are based, we're actually kicking these people out of their jobs. So there's a contradiction here. We need to take good care of these, give people the right to defend. It's too late for that, but at least now we have to give people the right to defend themselves. Of course, for that, the blame should be on the table. How can a man defend himself if he doesn't know what he's accused of? That's what we're going through now. There's no crime, there's no crime, there's no defense, and people are either on their bread or they're under arrest. Innocence has its capacities. Evidence of the crime falls to the state. Prove his innocence. You say without being known what the crime is. Therefore, these are not possible. These are practices that are incompatible with the state of law. One day tomorrow, all of this will come as compensation in international courts. That's the way it is, and in the end, there's no evil that can be done to humanity as much as punishing an innocent person. So we have to be very sensitive, as statesmen, to separate the guilty from the innocent. Judges, prosecutors, general managers, undersecretaries, ministers should not act on their fears. Look, they're acting out of fear. I believe you're innocent. The judge says, "But I can't let you go." Is that even possible? Why? Because if I let you go, I'll be you tomorrow. That can't happen. With such fears, managers -- look, there are institutions that we know about, there are situations that we know very well -- that the more they do, the more they think they're going to get in the way. What's the result? As a result, he's actually rubbing his hands. So the more you do this injustice, the more resistance in this struggle, the more they'll be able to recruit themselves. Now, I just got a visit from the families of the arrested privates and privates today. There's a lot of drama going on. Look where they've come from, several counties; the Army, Kayseri, İstanbul, Kırşehir, Bursa, Ağrı, Ankara, Siirt, Sivas, Kars, Diyarbakır. They're from around here. They don't have any money. None of them brought help from their neighbor. One of the aunts said: "I left my neighbor 50 liras as an allowance for my child. I mean, poor people like this, people of Anatolia. So we're going to fight the children of these people out today by their commanders, so we're going to fight the terror. You know, some of them, they said, "PKKK'd." Some of them said, "There's an attack on some people, we're going to prevent them." We're going to operate the people. We're going to say, "We're going to fight the terror." They're being taken here, and now, even though they haven't fired a gun because they've been here, many of them are lying in prisons in Silivri, Sincan, young children, and we're darkening their future. Look, we're not doing good to society, we're not doing good to Turkey, we're not doing good to the Turkish nation, we're ruining the future of these people. So we have to be very careful here. Now, his mother says: "I have entrusted my child to my state. Return my child to me. There is no way that a heart of conscience will not tremble in the face of this. He says he doesn't know that the commander-in-chief of the Army, the Commander-in-Chief of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff, the officer next to him, or the officer who's the commander of my child, is my private, expert sergeant, who will know that he is a coupger? It's a simple logic, but I'm curious to know what the power group and the people who run the state can say about it. Guys, no. If we want the well-being of this community, of this nation, the future... look, we're mortgaged the next ten years with these practices that we're doing. Otherwise, everyone knows our distance from terror, our distance from this structure called Fetullah, which is called the Fetullah. We have made our stand clear when everyone is involved with them, but I will fight the child. We will not allow the child to be persecuted. Therefore, those who run the state here must be very careful. He says: "My child didn't choose the union himself. Let's say the children of Kayseri -- I'm leaving now -- or in Silivri, here are those who lie in Sincan, the children in Mamak. Did he choose the boy in Mamak? He's taking the boy here, he's taking the commanders, he's driving them, but let's just say he's out of his neighborhood somewhere else, the boy in Çanakkale is doing his military service because he's not involved in anything. He's a week away from his thesis; look, he printed out his wedding invitation, his wedding invitation. Is it possible for someone who's a coup artist to print a wedding invitation? I'm speaking from here to Mr. President, and I'm speaking to the government, and I'm calling from here to the judges, to the prosecutors, there's no way these kids are guilty. If there's a criminal, prove his guilt, bring up the indictment. You've been holding these people prisoner for seven months with nothing to show for it, and these people can't come anymore. Look, poor families swear, I borrowed 50 lira from my neighbor, I left it for my child as an allowance. Mr. Secretary, please bring this up in the Council of Ministers. Mr. Secretary, I'm calling you to bring this up in the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0126par0158	Okay.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0125par0159	He brings the 50 lira allowance to his poor child from Diyarbakır to Sincan. How can people come from here to Silivri, from around the world, to Sincan, every week? Why don't we deal with these victims, why don't we do something about them? Oh, no wonder it wasn't done. Of course, now, there's no interest in the peace council in the dorm; there's not one operation on the members of the AKP or other political parties...
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0127par0161	Come in, finish up Mr. Master, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0125par0162	There are escaped generals, no one's arresting them; we have the power of men, of men, of men, of men; that will not happen. The mayors... there's nothing to distribute to Parsel Parsel country, and then we come here, these children, these people, they've been under arrest for seven months. It's a shame, it's a sin. Release them, and the courts will continue. If you've got something, you've got to do it later. There's no way they're gonna get away. Then there are those who say, 'Hain.' Look, I don't know, it's probably coming to you. One from Sivas, one from Maraş. It's very painful. There's been two families that I know of who contacted me. A week later, they find their kids in a garbage bag, stinking, face almost unrecognizable. I'm not saying anything about our child's death. They didn't let him in, they locked the mosque. The cemetery was not allowed to be defied, he says. Not a single bullet came out of these kids' guns later, and five months later, it's registered with a report. What's it gonna be? Who's going to restore their reputation? Who will comfort these families? That's not gonna happen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, families, mothers, fathers have cancer. Your kids are in a bad mood. Oh, for God's sake. If we want what's best for this nation, for the sake of this state, we need to go through with it. Our salt is dry. We'll be fine. It's not for us to say. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0128par0168	Thank you, Mr. Master. Secondly, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0129par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we're negotiating an international agreement. I made a promise on this deal that our group is about to speak for it. The first thing we're going to say about international agreements is that there are some fundamental areas and rules of international law. After 1945, the cornerstone of international law, followed by World War II, was identified as human rights. Why is human rights so important in international law? Why was international law asked to be built on human rights? The reason is obvious. Until that time, there was 12 years of Nazi persecution, World War II, and he saw great barbarisms, atrocities, remorselessness, and agreed to bring human rights into international law as a measure to prevent them from repeating it again. International human rights law has a very basic principle, my friends. It is the obligation of all states to ensure that one should take advantage of one's rights as an honorable entity, international human rights, and equally benefit all those rights. Let's put it more simply: In fact, international human rights law aims to create a universal conscience. It aims to build humanity's common conscience on certain basic principles and acceptances, international human rights law. We may also have different opinions about what we should understand when we call it the Vicdan, but in general, we may be able to determine together what conscience means on some fundamental issues, and we may be able to establish common ground. For one thing, let's say that what we call "vicdan" isn't just a value system or an evaluation of the human inner world. A person's actions are also defined by one's conscience, as well as by one's attitude toward other people. So it's much more than just a secret account matter in the inner world. There are various needs of conscience, perhaps we can put them in the simplest way: For once, it is your conscience to not take pleasure. So I can change my conduct in any way I want; I can do what I want; I can do what I want; I can do what I want; this is how I do what I want. When you say, you have an attitude that does not meet the needs of conscience. Like this, it's not just self-interest, self-centered, discrimination, opportunism, double standard, none of which is incompatible with conscience. Let's just say there's a very tight connection between conscience and politics. This is a subject that has been talked about in both theology and the secession, philosophy, various fields of science. Let me quote you, if you remove politics from the needs of conscience, you leave only a destructive activity. He's the first thing politics without a conscience will destroy, so if politics lacks a conscience, it's bound to quickly destroy itself. Where politics destroys itself, the means for people to build various mechanisms to produce common rules are also removed, and the enjoyment prevails, and after that, injustices, injustices, and injustices. There's a very simple rule of conscience, and I think everyone will agree that it's both in religion and in philosophy, it's the common acceptance of many thinkers, even if they've expressed it with different formulas. Don't do what you don't want done to you. We don't know of a simpler code of conscience than that, do we? It's very simple, it's clear. Why did I make all this entrance? Yes, we're in a state of emergency, before that there was a coup attempt. He said he had declared a state of emergency in order to take measures against this coup attempt, and said that he had made this decision that the Council of Ministers, gathered as president of the presidency, and then began to rule the country with decrees under the law. The very basic feature of these provisions is that there are no limits, so it's very open to arbitrary use in Turkey, in the Constitution, it is not easy to limit them according to the Constitution. It was possible to set a single limit, if the Constitutional Court had repeated its previous testimony, then there would have been a limit to the provisions under the law, but the Constitutional Court was obviously afraid, hesitated or for other reasons, did not repeat its previous testimony, gave up this charge. In Turkey, then, there is no other way, no other mechanism, that would limit laws under constitutional order. There's a pattern like this that's convenient, and the government is using it forever. In addition, there are no control opportunities, and the government sees no harm in the use of judicial decrees to the end of the possibilities provided by lack of supervision. I made some inquiries about our friends who got kicked out of the academy the other day, and I used some phrases, so let me re-open them up a little bit. So far, the number of academics expelled from universities has reached 4,881, almost 5,000. And when we ask them what it's based on, they actually only have one measure, what they're saying is that it's enough to be connected in any way to the organization, which is defined as the concrete, but it's enough to sign the peace declaration for the others. So the peace academics are clearly saying that they're liquidating our friends because they just signed that statement. Now, we've given an example of February 28th applications to show you how much fun this is, what an unfair practice this is. On February 28th, the suspicion that he was just an inventor was enough for public disposals. I read a news report today that RSC President Yekta Sarac has made statements to some AKP MPs as to why academics have been removed; the report says: "Sir, the teachers who signed the declaration spoke to them one by one. The declaration asked them to sign, and those who refused to withdraw were dismissed. We did our duty, he says. Teacher Nabi, doesn't this practice remind you of the persuasion rooms? Yes, the chamber of persuasion has been established, and so far you've brought up the room of persuasion on every occasion. What were the persuasion rooms? Here, sir, some of the teachers who wore the headscarf wanted to take them into a room and convince them to talk them out of it. Now, what other method of February 28th have you not tried? So far, most of what you claim February 28th has done to you, and most of what has actually been done to you, it's used power by taking almost all of it further, people. It's a double standard; it's a lack of conscience. And let me remind you of a saying by Halil Jibran. He says, "You can know a man from where he is best and silent." Don't those who are thirsty have a conscience? If the conscience is awake, it's hard to silence him. You will do what is necessary, and you will pay the price, or you will suppress the conscience and agree to be unconscionable. The choice is yours. I'll leave you to your consciences. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit03spe0130par0182	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you two minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote on the adoption of the Defence Industry Business Union Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Indonesia: [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China in accordance with the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments and the Agreement and the Approval Protocol are in line. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Constitutional Legislature and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 8th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 380 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the government of the Chinese People's Republic of Turkey. Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China, signed in Antalya on 14 November 2015, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-15sit04spe0130par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of Bill 380 was not enough for the meeting. Now, I'm going to put the bill back to your votes. I'll give you two minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China that Approves Agreement on Co-operation in the Land of Railways: ▪ Number of votes used : 210 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. In the 9th place, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China, the Silk Road Economic Zone, 21. We will begin negotiations with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is appropriate to ratify the Covenant Conspiracy for the Compatibility of the Silk Road and the Central Corridor Initiative at the Sea of the Century. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 378 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. IPEE ECONOMIC CLUB, 21. CONTINUES TO CONTINUE THE SIDE OF THE CENTER AND THE CORITOR COMMUNITY TO BE COMPLICATED MADDE 1- (1) was signed on 14 November 2015 in Antalya, and 21 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China, Silk Road Economic Zone. The adoption of The Covenant of the Common Corridor Initiative and Silk Road in the Sea of the Century was appropriate. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China, the Silk Road Economic Zone, 21. I'd like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Law bill that the Agreement for the Compatibility of the Silk Road and the Central Corridor Initiative in the Sea of the Century is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the European Council's Council of Ministers' Committee's 10th Committee of Ministers' Committee on Enlarged Partial Agreement Compromising Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 88 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Look at the Council of the Council of the People of the State of the State of Europe. MADDE 1- (1) The Council of Europe's Council of Ministers' Assistant ministers' 1101th meeting on 8 December 2010 was approved with the declaration of the 53rd Amendment (CM/RES (2010) that establishes the Enlarged Partial Agreement on Culture Roads. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, may I present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers for the Enlargement of Partial Agreement Enlarged in Cultural Ways that Compounds the Decision: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Turkish Republic's Government of Northern Cyprus, drafting and Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Intergovernmental Agreement Against Su Temini and Management. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 406 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF SURVITION AND ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF TURK COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY MADDE 1- (1) was approved of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus between Su Temini and the Government of Northern Cyprus signed on March 2, 2016. I submit item 1 to your votes. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are considered item one. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature Charter, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, in accordance with the adoption of the Intergovernmental Agreement between Su Temini and Management: ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Surinam that Agreement on Friendship and Co-operation is in order. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 35 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY AND THE CONTACT OF DOCTION AND WORKING IN THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICITY OF SURINAL REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 7 March 2013 in Ankara. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Surinam was approved. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature (Surinam Republic) Government and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (Surinam Republic) that Agreement on Friendship and Co-operation is in order: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the People's Republic of China in the Transport Infrastructure and Maritime Area in the Approval of the Covenant Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 83 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF CHINESE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Transport Infrastructure of the People's Republic of China and Co-operation in the Maritime Area was approved on October 8, 2010 in Ankara. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote on the adoption of the Covenant Act between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China between the Transport Infrastructure and Maritime Area: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Law, which is ranked 14th, in accordance with the Co-operation of the Health Area between the Ministry of the People's Republic and the Health Department of China. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 181 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the Church of Turkey's Republic of Turkey, the Chinese People's Republic will continue to plan for the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the construction of the government in the area of the peace. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement for Co-operation between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Health of the People's Republic of China was approved on 23 April 2009 in Beijing. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I would like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the DIR Bill of the Health between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Health of the People's Republic of China. [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Covenant for Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China for Information and Communication Technologies. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 251 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. REPUBLICATION OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMPLICATION PRODUCTION TO PRODUCTION IN THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSEMENTAL PEOPLE. MADDE 1- (1) Approved to Co-operate in Information and Communication Technologies between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China, signed in Ankara on October 8, 2010. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) This goes into effect in the history of law publishing. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Court of Justice for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China for Information and Communication Technologies. ▪ Number of votes used : 226 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. In the 16th place, we will begin negotiations with the European Council's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is in line with the European Council's Convention on Anti-Terrorism, where it is appropriate to ratify the additional Protocol. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 248 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. DRAFT PROTOCOLN REPLICATION OF THE REVOLUTION OF THE DISCOVERY OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROCTION OF THE CONTROCTION OF THE DRAFT CONTROCTION The European Council Convention on Anti-Terrorism, signed in Riga on October 22, 2015, was approved of the additional Protocol. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Council of Europe, may I present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Charter, in accordance with the Convention on Anti-Terrorism Approvement: ▪ Number of votes used : 220 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and with the State of Pakistan's Government on the Foundation of Culture Centres in the Government of the Islamic Republic of Turkey that the Agreement on its operations and its activities has been approved in accordance with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in accordance with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Council of Ministers (1/628) and with the Foreign Affairs Commission Report (1/628), which is ranked in the 19th place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 321 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRAM FOR THE CONTINUES OF INTERVIEW CONTINUES OF THE ENERGY STORE CONTINUATION MADDE 1- (1) The amendments adopted at the Energy Condition Conference in Brussels on 23-24 April 1998 were approved. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... those who do not accept Article 1... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature bill that the Amendment to the Treaty on Energy Conditions is appropriate to ratify the Amendments brought to Trade Decisions: ▪ Number of votes used: 224 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the People's Republic of China (Turkish Republic of Turkey) that it is appropriate to approve the Cultural Change Programme for 2010-2013. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 392 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PROGRAM OF REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY IN CHINESE REPUBLICITY REPLICATION PRODUCTION PROGRAM PROGRAM PRODUCTION OF THE PROGRAM OF CONTRODUCTION IN 2010-2013 The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Cultural Change Programme for 2010-2013 between the Government of the People's Republic of China, which was signed in Ankara on October 8, 2010. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Bill for the approval of the Cultural Change Programme between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China for 2010-2013: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 21st in line with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of France, confirming the Co-operation Agreement in the Energy Area. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been printed and distributed with the number of 193 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND THE COMMUNITY OF FRANCE REPUBLICATION CONTINUES THE CONTROL OF AGREATION IN THE ENERGIAL ACTION OF ENERGY MADDE 1- (1) was approved on January 27, 2014 in Ankara, with the approval of the Agreement for Co-operation in the Energy Area between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of France. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to submit to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of France. ▪ Number of votes used : 221 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with the Ministry of Energy and Natural Gas in the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Natural Gas and the Ministry of India in accordance with the Co-operation in the Oil and Gas of the Republic of Turkey. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 192 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REVOLUTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH THE ENERGY COMMUNITY AND THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RESPONSIBILITY OF THE REFERCTION OF THE REFERCITION OF REPLICATION IN THE ENTIRE LAND AND NATIENT GEMENTAL GEZ AGREMENT. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Indian Republic of Oil and Natural Gas, which was signed in New Delhi on 24 November 2005, were approved to co-operate in the Oil and Gas Area of India. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I would like to present to you the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature for the ratification of the Covenant between the Ministry of Energy and Natural Gas of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of India and the Ministry of Oil and Natural Gas. ▪ Number of votes used: 225 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 352 and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 23rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 194 and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 24th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (February 16th 2017) that the bill and proposals will be discussed in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
