tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın, who wanted to discuss the 99th anniversary of Erzurum's release from enemy occupation. Your time is five minutes. Please observe the deadlines, Mr. Lawmakers. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on behalf of the National Movement Party today. I salute you all. Honourable MPs are the month of victory for Erzurum in March. The festivals, which began with İspir district of our rescue from enemy occupation, end last in our district of Shunkaya. On 16 February 1916, the Russians invaded Erzurum, and the troubles in Erzurum have increased after the Russian occupation and occupation of Russia after the revolution in 1917, while our exhausted army and the people of the region have been searching for solutions before the traces of Operation Sarikamis have been wiped out. With their immediate departure from Erzurum after the occupation, the Russians have withdrawn from the territory of Erzurum, while taking over the weapons left by the Tasnak groups, and with the encouragement of the occupation forces of that period, they dream of forming an Armenia state in the region. Our commander in charge of the region, Kazim Karabekir Pasha, particularly Erzincan, Erzurum and Sarıkamis, gives the order to prepare an operation, and at the same time, they begin an independence movement by all participating in the region's women, children and children. Today, every Erzurumite has a memory of those painful years in his mind and in his heart because the high price has been paid. Only the number of martyrs we buried was 2,377 on the day Kazım Karabekir entered Erzurum. Again, on the night of March 11th, I'd like to point out from the memory of a Russian colonel, Tverdohlebof, on the night of March 11th, stated that the number of Turkish people slaughtered in one night was 3,000 Muslims who were burned. This invasion, which has reached the tens of thousands in total and has soon become history as a major Tannak tyranny, resulted in a great victory by the reinforcement of the locals and our soldiers. Honourable MPs, tomorrow is March 8th, and also World Women's Day. By opening a separate parentheses, I celebrate the Women's Day of all women with my sincerest wishes, and I will not pass without remembering our heroic woman, Nene Hatun. The journalist, İsmail Habib Yüçük, the politician, writes his meeting with Nene Hatun (born March 2, 1937) in the daily Cumhuriyet daily newspaper, in the writing of the Living Witnesses of Aziziya. During this meeting, Nene Hatun is 80 years old, taking care of her paralyzed daughter and her 100-year-old husband. He lives in utter poverty and poverty. Ismail Habib wants to pay for his poverty, and Nene Hatun refuses. I'm sure at this point, my dear readers, you expect Nene Hatun....... to give a slap to Ismail Habib. What is a response that smells of nobility and heroism? Nene Hatun gives a really slapy answer, but it's not what you expect: find me a job, sir, and I'll look around the house. Ismail Habip says: "It's not a shame to find work for them, it's not a shame to do it. These are the ones who have done most of the work that can't be done. On the other hand, during his visit to Erzurum, NATO Commander-in-Chief Ridgway Nene Hatun, who came to Erzurum to follow military maneuvers after the Korean victory, many nations seek out their heroes within their armies, only the art of heroism. In Turks, true heroes are the unassuming residents of humble corners that cannot be imagined. Because they're not supposed to be heroes, and they don't need them because they're created heroes. I am proud to have known Nene Hatun. And while I bless my great hero, I'd like to remember Arif Nihath with this verse: ▪ The eye closes and the candle is not extinguished, A voice from the sky is like a voice from Erzurum. Sufficient is the intercessor for the free for ages. Your heart's tenderness, Nene Hatun, says your servant. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Khakat MP Oldi Durmaz, who asked for logistical support for the trade of vegetables and fruit. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Durmaz, please, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you. Mr. President, dear nation of ours, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Assembly in your presence. I have made a commitment to the price of vegetables and fruit that are leading to the fundamental problems of our agricultural producers and consumers. Our Minister of Customs and Trade, Mr. Tüfenkci, announced a project to raise the manufacturer the other day, and believe me, we were very happy. However, when we didn't see the Tokat....which was important in producing vegetables and fruit here in Turkey, even in this government programme, where the precious plains were taken to the site, we were deeply hurt and hurt. The Minister is expected to receive the Tokat (Katat) between these 17 counties before it is officially announced. Dear friends, you can't make consumers eat cheap vegetables by making such incentives, and you can't make manufacturers produce them. The basic condition of this is that the farmer must buy the diesel as the Republican People's Party has proposed, without the OTV or the VAT. The farmer must not migrate from those areas, from those lands where he was born. Sadly, during the period of government, the immigration champion of the last decade was the third most emigrated province because of Kazova, Artova, Erbaa Plains, Niksar Plains, Zile Plains, Maşat Plains, Silis Plains, Çamlıbel Plains, and the government's agricultural policies. It demoralizes and demoralizes the people who live on that beautiful plain. In order for the manufacturer to win, of course, those giant facilities should be built, but first you have to build them; you do that in many organized industrial areas, like in factories, they're empty, empty. First, you need to fix that peasant the price of beets you saw under the price of a year ago. The onion that the manufacturer spilled needs to be known, the potato needs to be known. The tomato that the peasant sold for 10 cents, 15 cents is sold at the farmer's markets for $2, $3. Here's where the government has to pass the state law, which will lift that tool, which will be in those supermarkets, in supermarkets, where they'll place the producer peasant. If we can't get this off, if we can't give the villager cheap diesel, we can't stop the villagers from throwing themselves into the desert as soon as they've done their military service, which will ruin the manufacturer and prevent them from producing it. Many products are produced in Turkey in many precious plains, but if you say, "Where does the nut that has the most quality omega 3 grow?," everyone in Turkey says, "Niksar/da, Tokat-ta, Almusta, Reshadiye" in Turkey. Again, where is Turkey's most prized leaf produced? If you say so, everyone will say "Tokat" without question. Again, where is the world-famous creature used in chemical industry, pharmaceutical industry produced? Again, you can eat the birdburn boiled with grape juice in Tokat. The finest sauce is made from tomatoes that grow in the plains of Erbaa and Niksar, in Kazova. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, the republic's fourth achievement was founded in Turhal, the sugar factory, but the beet producers in Turhal and the surrounding counties are miserable, and this misery is causing them to look at the future in despair. The best beans, peppers, cucumbers that you all know, and many of you have asked about, are in the Kelkit Valley of Tokat. Come, let us keep these people in the land where they were born, but before we do, the government must review this decision and take the absolute Tokat (Tokat) among those 17 provinces. He's always talking about double roads, guys, the government's bragging, but we don't have a double route to any of our counties. It's just now 10 kilometers between the Tokat-Niksar, and I think in a few days the two ministers and the AKP's power will open that road. This is the past ten years of the Tokat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By the way, dear friends, as you all know, it is also the day of the salvation of Artvin, one of the major provinces of the March 7th Liberation War; I celebrate the days of the salvation of all the Artvinites, and salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Members of parliament, on July 15th, our country's chief speaker, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkalı, led by our Parliamentary Speaker, Mr. Ayse Nurkaklı, who stood up for the tanks at the cost of his life, who held his chest up to a coup. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] I welcome all our heroines, and by the way, congratulations on your March 8th World Women's Day. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Members of parliament, the third non-responsive statement belongs to Zonguldak MP Faruk Çaturoğlu, who asked for a speech on the Memorial of the miners 3 March 1992 and 7 March 1983. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0006par0057	Mr. President, I have made a promise in our town of Zonguldak, the capital of labor, laborer, and mining, in the tragedy of the Grizu in Kozlu province on March 3, 1992, that we will have 263 miners who were martyrs today, again dead, in the explosion of the Grizza in the Kandilite on March 7th. I salute your high council with love and respect. In both 1983 and 1992, hundreds of feet below the ground, sweating hard and hard, and trying to earn a living, I remember our fallen miners with mercy and gratitude, their place will be paradise. Although many years have passed, all of these accidents are still burning in the heart of the miners' relatives and all of the Zonguldkan, like a burning ember. I'd like to put it this way. No doubt mining is a difficult and difficult business. Our miners are doing this difficult task both to provide for themselves and to contribute to the country's economy. Right now, I'm giving my regards to all the miners who are still working as underground miners. There were two mining accidents in our country in 2014, one of them is Soma and the other is Ermenek. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey quickly convened here and introduced laws to regulate the working life of these, and they quickly entered into force. Again, the relatives of the deceased were granted some social opportunities and employment rights as a result of business accidents that occurred in underground affairs, as long as they were limited to 13/5/2004 and 28/10/2014. Now, the relatives of the mine martyrs all over our country, particularly Zonguldak, who are out of the date range, want to take advantage of the same rights, which is their right, of course. We Zonguldak MPs say that on every platform. We've had these discussions with our prime minister and our concerned ministers. We'll keep fighting on every platform, no one will ever doubt it. Dear friends, despite the fact that some of the coal costs have been agreed on to be met by the state, mining is difficult and the number of workers in the mines is reduced day by day. Thus, one of the biggest projects of our Turkish project, the Filyos Valley Project, was launched in Zonguldak. With the port of 25 million tons of capacity and the industrial area to employ 15,000 people behind it, it will be one of the largest projects in our country, not only in our region, but also in a region that respects green and nature. Again, this industrial region will make Zonguldak, one of Turkey's logistical bases, with its port, its free zone, its roads, its developed railways, its air and other roads. I, finally, ask God's mercy on all our mine martyrs and martyrs again. Our work, our strength, people, our decision says yes in the Constitution vote, and I salute you all again with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0007par0065	Thank you, Mr. Chaturoglu. Congressmans, we thank you once again for our heroic women who have come to our House, on behalf of myself, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and all the political party groups, and on behalf of all the MPs, I thank you for their heroism. (AK PARTI, CHP and MHP) I ask for God's mercy on the martyrs, and we thank our veterans for their health and pleasure, and we thank Mr. Ayşenur Gardenkaplı, who organized this program, and Radiye Sezer Kadarcıoğlu, the chairman of the Women's Equality Commission for Men's Opportunity, and the entire delegation. I say God bless you. We'll pick up where we left off. Congressmans, I will now, for a minute, promise the first 15 MPs who enter the system according to the Interior Charter 60. First word, Mr. Özdish. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking my question, wishing you a good day. My question to the Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Animalism: In particular, over the past three or four years, there have been mass bee deaths in the Imamoglu district of Adana. Has there been any research into this event, which has led to the great victimization of the farmers who were beekeepers for a living? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In what areas of Turkey have there been cases of bee deaths in the last five years? Are agricultural medicines controlled in the area of bee hives and fields around them? The agricultural pharmaceutical firms...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0009par0078	Mr. President, there's no sound. Just a second... if you want him to repeat it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. Özdish, I'll promise you one more time, your mic's off. Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0011par0082	On 27/1/2017, there was a pardon on the record. It was announced that 11 million people would be affected by pardons. It has been said that banks will provide ease and that those who pay off their debt may receive a loan. However, there was no clear regulation in the law that the record would be expunged. Even if the debt was paid off because it was a recommendation to banks, the bank would be able to assess it to get a loan. Although this arrangement is more useful to banks somewhere, a hopeful citizen is disappointed when he goes to banks, facing negative responses. In this context, the government should warn the banks to act more flexiblely. In addition, seven of our women, members of the METAL-HIS Syndicate, who are on their way to Ankara today for Tomorrow's Laboring Women's Day, have died in a car accident. I honor them and salute their struggle. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0012par0086	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. The damn structure, called Å, has infiltrated the dessert shop, but for some reason, it has not infiltrated the AKP alone. And a servant of Allah came forth from among you, and did not faint, and we planted him. With what face do those sponsors of the Turkish Olympics, the people who pay for public land, now equate half the country with the coupgers who dropped bombs on parliament? He is the inventor and ringleader of the bombs and the inventor of the Constitution. Those bombs were what they wanted and what they didn't give. Those bombs are hidden in the rain that got wet together. How dare you say "no" to those who say "no" now? We have no intention of handing over the land's deed to those who call half the country a terrorist. Especially us women -- tomorrow, March 8th -- will never give away our rights with the republic.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0014par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent days, I condemn the stance of European countries, particularly Germany, towards Turkish politicians. This attitude has made it very clear that Europe has not yet been blessed with its many democratic principles, and that Europe has begun to eat the concept of democracy, which it has never been intimate with, as if it were an idol. The calls of democracy that Europe has sent to us at every turn did not really hold democracy, but we will teach them the true democracy, which, on this occasion, appeared very clearly to those who wanted to see it. As our president said, if we want to go to Europe, we will go and do whatever it takes. However, in addition to this stance, if you go to Germany, you will be kept waiting for a long time at the airport. The presence of our politicians, who say and enjoy it, is sad to show that there is still a political presence in Turkey that is sinking in its inferiority complex. What Turkey needs is a standing position. If Turkey boils, Berlin will burn. Mr. Gardenli says it's the steep and national stand of Mr. Bahli. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0016par0097	Mr. President, first of all, we've lost seven women because of the traffic accident that our women in the Turkish METAL-İSK Union had on the way to Burma and Ankara, 35 of whom we have injured, and I wish the wounded an immediate recovery, and I wish God's mercy to those we've lost. Mr. President, as the referendum began to reveal no, AKP members, especially at the Palace, revealed tactics they knew. A Justice and Development Party executive threatened to say no, using mafia methods, with guns and death, and published it on social media, threatening terror and chaos by reminding our people of June 7th. In the National Liberation War, the invaders threatened this nation with similar methods. Just as they have not brought this nation to its knees, those who make these threats will never bring this great nation to its knees. What will happen when our nation says no? I say to those who say, "Our nation will take possession of its own sovereignty, and Turkey will breathe in peace."
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0015par0099	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0017par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish God's mercy to all of our workers, who died as a result of the fall of the bus carrying members of the Turkish METAL-İSK Union, and to the wounded, and to the immediate healing. As the Day of World Workers' Women approaches on March 8th, Ankara's Izzmir (Izmir) all over the country is on the streets to protect rights, freedoms, republics and women's labor against bans. Those who are afraid of women's solidarity, organised struggle continue to express their prohibitive mentality in universities, squares. As the mothers of this country gather to take care of their own future, their children's futures, power speeds up the polarizing and segregating rhetoric of society. Because they know that there will be a future in unity, solidarity, women's organization. The stubbornness of women, the determination to fight, the one man's regime will overcome its dream, and will not prevent spring from coming in this land, and hope from flourishing.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0018par0105	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0019par0107	Mr. President, in 2002, we became a non-friendly country in the foreign policy that we started to call "zero problems." In Germany, it is not possible to accept the idea, as it is contrary to freedom of expression, to allow local governments to block our ministers' meetings. But those who say no live in Germany live in Turkey. In addition, the term the President uses in his reaction is such a false and dangerous language that should not be used in diplomacy. Three million Turkish citizens live in Germany. About 6,000 German companies operate in Turkey. There are over 100,000 German citizens working and living in Turkey. The crisis between Turkey and Germany must be overcome by diplomacy, the state administration and the interests of our country. I think this problem should be resolved within the framework of a strong diplomacy and if necessary, instead of a Hamasi lecture, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0018par0109	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. The transport sector is at an end to the government's policies. One of the lifebloods of Turkey and particularly the Hatay economy is road transport. The problems of people in this sector need to be solved or reduced. The land transport industry has various costs, such as tires, maintenance repairs, labor force and diesel. And most importantly, it's no doubt gasoline. The subsidization of fuel costs by the state will give these people some comfort. In European Union countries, vehicles capable of carrying 12 tons and more are provided with diesel support. Do you plan to give the high-end commercial yachts, the UTV-free diesel to our movers shop at least 10 or 15 percent off? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0021par0114	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. The position of those who say no is to be next to the 15th of July. It is those who walk with us, who get wet together and give us everything they want. The AKP has caused trouble for this country, and the AKP has caused trouble for the country. For the sake of the nation, for the sake of our children, for our democracy, we don't give so much authority to one person, we're going to say no. Such accusations are touching the blood of our citizens. History will write down those who impose one man on this nation, and those who resist it, as well as those who resist it. I thank you for the good results of April 16th for the future of our country.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0023par0119	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we've seen the extent to which greed and stubbornness can take as a result of our lawsuit against the cancellation of the nuclear power plant in Mersin Akkuyu. In short, the AKP government says that if life and natural environment are destroyed, as long as it's a nuclear power plant; even if Silifke Göksu Delta is destroyed, only if it's a nuclear plant; seal fish, ▪carettas, marine creatures die, just as long as it's a nuclear power plant. Dear friends, nuclear power plants have brought death all over the world. Just a few weeks ago, there was an accident at a nuclear plant in France, and people's hearts were in their mouths. Dear friends, our country needs energy savings, not nuclear power plants. The parliamentary lamps that haven't been lit since 1989 have been beautiful today, but we have to set an example in saving electricity. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0025par0125	Thank you. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0026par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our farmers who produce banelings in the Candy Factory, even though they have enough land to produce beets with banelings, they can't produce enough because the quota is low. Therefore, for the greater production of our farmer, we demand that the quota be increased to contribute to the country's economy. In particular, there is another problem: There is a line of over 30km at the entrance to Iran now. There's no bathroom, no toilet, no park where drivers can afford their own special needs, they're seriously victims. I demand that the trouble at the gate be resolved immediately and the victims of the drivers be relieved. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0027par0132	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0028par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. To those who died in today's car accident, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. With the arrival of Islam, the women not only survived the unjust practices they experienced during the days of ignorance, but they also began to play a more active role in social life. During the time of the Prophet, women could easily take part in many areas of social life. Some women dealt with trade, some with education, some with health care. It was a nice thing to give them an important social place and the right to political participation. On the other hand, our Prophet always looked out for them, never allowed their rights to be undermined or persecuted. Being kind and understanding to women was one of the principles of the Lord's life. How we need that understanding today.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0029par0137	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Our children need to be trained in a successful, healthy, safe environment, and our primary education policy. In this sense, the school social service, which is important in this sense, is part of the educational system more than a century. The school social service, which is part of the National Children's Rights Strategy and Action Plan in our country, is vital for the protection of our children from any danger, risk, neglect and abuse and increased school achievements. On this occasion, we celebrate the International School Social Services Week of March 1 7th, and wish our country, just as it is in developed countries, to implement school social services as well as to improve the welfare of our children.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0029par0141	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. The area of Rize's former stadium is owned by malls and residences. But there is not a single green area in Mufti neighborhood, although it is green Rize; there is no place for women, children, and old people to spend their time in. For some reason, they've made this decision, and now they've given off-site clearance for the entire stadium, and they're entering by tearing down 300 houses on the east coast. But on the west side, there's a vast plot of salt dry. Now, 300 - a 300 - house that has been destroyed - is waiting in line for a citizen who asks: "Why are you tearing down our house?" They say, "Let the house of those who have destroyed the Garibans be destroyed." Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0032par0146	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0033par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. We had guests today as the CEFEC Commission, our veteran ladies. We are honored, honored, honored to have them under this sacred roof, at the disposal of the national will. When it happens again with national consciousness and faith, with faith, with such faith, we will see them again in the streets when we meet again - God forbid - from the eyes of those women, and from the hearts of those women, and from the hearts of them that are burning with fire, and from their hearts that are burning with fire. I'm celebrating them once again, and I'd like to say we're honored and proud to have them here.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0032par0150	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0034par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Women have been leading economic, social and cultural transformations around the world. In our country, along with the declaration of the republic, a modern fight against Turkey brought about the equality of men and women before many countries, the right to choose and be elected. However, despite legal regulations, unfortunately today the Turkish woman is far behind in the modern world. Turkey is a conservative country that does not believe in equality between men and women, restricting rights and freedoms, increasing violence day by day. In this context, when we look at the last ten years of research, we seem to be in serious decline. At this point, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's word should be our guide; policies to strengthen her economically, socially, culturally. With these thoughts, the world celebrates the Day of Women on March 8th, and your choice will be the fate of our women, I thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0035par0155	Mr. Barracks...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0036par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is our day of joy. March 7th, the day of the liberation of Artvin, our national holiday. I celebrate the day of salvation in honor of the 96th anniversary of salvation by all my countrymen. I pray for the mercy of all our martyrs and veterans who have left us this land of paradise as our homeland. 1877-1878 Ottomans, known as the 93 War, share the sufferings of our sainted apocalypse who lived forty-five years after the Russian War. As a result of the intense efforts of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we also experience the happiness of the end of the period of suffering in 1921, and the return of Artvin to the motherland. Once again, I wish all my countrymen the day of their salvation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0037par0164	Thank you. We celebrate the liberation of Artvin. Looks like Mr. Flagtutan's gonna be celebrating, too. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0038par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. As my congressman mentioned earlier, today is Artvin's day of pride and honor. All over Turkey, Artvinians are celebrating the 96th anniversary of Artvin's salvation throughout the world with great enthusiasm and excitement. Before coming here, we visited the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, at the Memorial. In his presence, we once again remember our martyrs, whose great struggles in the salvation of our country, especially Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and we say to our veterans, "Let their place be paradise," and we express our thanks to our veterans. Artvin is one of the most important cities of our country, our geography. It is the great pride of the Artvins that he has joined the motherland, that captivity has come to an end, that salvation has come to an end. I hereby celebrate once again this enthusiastic day of Artvins from the Veteran Assembly, Mustafa Kemal. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0039par0179	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Finally, Mr. Özdish, I was interrupted, the microphone was cut off. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0040par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Animalism: In particular, for the past three or four years, there have been mass bee deaths in the Imamoglu district of Adana. Has there been any research into this event, which has led to the great victimization of the farmers who were beekeepers for a living? In what areas of Turkey have there been cases of bee deaths in the last five years? Are agricultural medicines controlled in the area of bee hives and fields around them? Is it true that agricultural pharmaceutical companies have been lobbying to prevent measures from being taken? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0041par0186	Thank you. Congressmans, last Thursday (March 2nd) there was an earthquake of 5.5 in the central district of Samsat, which was also felt in Adıyaman and the surrounding provinces. Because of this earthquake, I say to all my brothers and sisters of Samsat, Kadar, Adıyaman, once again, to my countrymen. Violence may not seem too intense, but God did not cause the loss of life because it was short. We've examined the extent of the damage in place. When it first happened, we were with our President and Prime Minister, who immediately gave instructions to do everything that needed to be done. Our Deputy Prime Minister, the AFAD authorities immediately went to the earthquake site. There, in our governor's co-ordinator, our co-ordinators, our mayors, and all concerned -- including the AFAD officials -- he co-ordinated with a serious co-ordination in the first place. We went from village to village to town center. Of course, the damage is oversized, maybe a thousand residential positions. But from the very first moment, the needs of all the earthquake victims have been met until the slightest need, and they continue to be met. I say once again, get well soon, all my fellow citizens. Our only consolation is that there was no life-threatening, no life-threatening, no life-threatening, no life-threatening, in a place of this magnitude, the extent of this damage. Most of our wounded were treated standing up, three of our wounded -- high jumps -- in the hospital because of their fractures. But with regard to the damage, our government is doing its best, and in the best possible way, it shows that it's with the earthquake victims. Once again, I say to the Lord that he may preserve us, our country, our nation, and all our countrymen. And I thank all the political party groups, who said they were here with the earthquake victims with the same sensitivity that day. I say, "Get well soon," and thank you. By the way, I'd like to offer my condolences to the workers who lost their lives as a result of the crash of the bus coming to Ankara on land, and to all our citizens, once again, my condolences. Here you are, Mr. Zechariah.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0042par0199	First of all, my condolences to all of us. Unfortunately, our fellow workers who came from Bursa to attend events organised in Ankara as part of the World Women's Day on March 8th, suffered an accident on the highway at the exit of Bursa. Six of our fellow workers - all of our sisters - were dead at the scene, and one of our fellow workers died while being taken to the hospital. We now have seven dead and 34 wounded. All of our wounded are hospitalized. Our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Mehmet Muezzinoglu, our Governor of Bursa and all officials are currently in the hospital taking care of our wounded. I offer my condolences again, especially to our Lord and all our nation. I hope we never have accidents like this again.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0041par0201	Thank you. Once again, we offer our condolences, and we wish our wounded a speedy recovery. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Lightning, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0043par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. And last week, I give my best wishes to all of our people who were affected and injured by the earthquake, which was the Samsat district of Adıyaman, Adıyaman, last week. Again, on my way to Ankara today for a meaningful event, I pray to God for mercy and immediate healing for those who died because of the unionists' car accident. Mr. President, Turkey is currently on a hunger strike in 4 prisons and on its 23rd day of hunger strike. They have a very simple demand: the rights to law, prison regulations and international contracts that Turkey sided with are not incomplete, but only as written. Visibility, capacity, lack of degrading, hurtful work and transactions in search and counting procedures. Let's move from here and say that they have a human life demand. They want to exercise the rights that laws and prison regulations have provided for them, but imagine, there have been hunger strikes in this country for 23 days in 4 prisons because they have been unable to exercise the rights they have, due to the conditions of 8, 9, 10 remaining in the 3-man ward, the almost hurtful approach in search and counting. We demand that this practice be conducted by the Justice Department and ended through dialogue as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0044par0212	Is it over?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0043par0213	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0044par0214	Let's give it another minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0043par0216	Thank you. Another, Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, is that if Mr. Ilnur Avik is released today, you will seek chaos and instability in Turkey after June 7th." he said, "This is the direction of the tweet. Only Ilnur Riotik confused one thing: the political power did not use this sentence before June 7th, before November 1st, and before November 1st, if you don't want chaos, make us do it alone." They said, "It's just like today." God forbid, if this power succeeds again as it did on November 1st, then the country will be turned into a river of blood. On November 1st, they asked for a vote to end the chaos, the country has not seen the light of day since, and the country has not been at peace since. And I speak not to the Parliament, but to our people: Let us remember this sentence, which was used especially before November 1st, and let us take the position according to it on April 16th. Those who love this country, who love the freedom of this people, their lasting peace, their honorable peace, never leave the land, no, there is good in it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0044par0218	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0045par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. The bus carrying female members of the Turkish Metal Union's Bursa Branch for the March 8th Women's Council has crashed near Ingegöl. We've learned that five female members have lost their lives and 35 others have been injured. We wish God's mercy to our citizens who died of an accident, and an immediate healing to the wounded. Again, on March 2nd, I wish all citizens of Adıyaman Samsat well -- the absence of loss of life has been our only consolation -- and I wish the wounded well. Mr. President, last week a wave of anti-Turkey in Germany, the Netherlands and Austria has begun, and Turkish government executives have been asked to stop meeting with our citizens. It is not to reason that any representative of the Republic of Turkey should be prevented from meeting with our citizens who live abroad. We condemn this wrong attitude. We invite German government executives to come to my senses against the rising hostility of Turkey in Europe, primarily Germany. It is clear that this wrong attitude towards the rulers of the Republic of Turkey cannot be sustained as a government and state policy. This is an antidemocratic attitude for Turkish citizens of Europe, who are also their own citizens. It is only natural for our citizens in Europe to demonstrate their views on democratic processes in their homeland. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0046par0227	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0045par0228	Obstructing that right is an obstruction of human rights and political rights. What we're wondering is, why did the use of the democratic rights of European Turkia disturb these countries? We remember well that in the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, various institutions of the European Union had been part of the open/yea-yea campaign, and now they're part of the open/no campaign, and they're taking a stand on it. With terrorism almost appreciated and applauded as the port of these enemies of Turkey in European countries, freedom of expression is regarded as a right for members of the terrorist organization supported by these countries, such an application for the official representatives of the Republic of Turkey is very important. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Europe's countries on the subject of this bet are openly or veiled against Turkey with their positions, and this attitude is clearly marked as a no for the referendum on April 16th. We wish they'd give up that attitude.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0047par0232	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0048par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to wish you and all Adıyaman that once again, as a member of your community, I wish you and all the people of Adıyaman to be well-pleased with the suffering of an earthquake. Again, we received a very sad news of an accident today. We learned that seven of our female friends died and were injured as a result of the overthrow of the bus carrying the members of the Turkish Metal Union who arrived in Ankara for the March 8th World Women's Day event. This sadness shook all of us from the heart before the 8th March World Women's Day. It's a very heavy sign that women are being paid a heavy price to celebrate even one day. I ask God's mercy to all our women who have lost their lives, and my condolences to our entire nation. Mr. President, today is also the anniversary of the liberation of Adana Kadirli, and of our Artvin. We are deeply celebrating both our citizens of Adana and our citizens of Artvin for their loyalty to their country. Mr. President, 27 years ago, Cetin Emeç was murdered, he died. We remember Cetin Emeç, who died on March 7, 1990, and Cetin Emeç, the worshiper of Turkish journalism, Cetin Emeç, once again, with love and respect. By the way, Mr. President, we are strongly condemning the practices of the German People's Party as the Republican People's Party for canceling the legitimate meetings that our ministers are going to hold there. All citizens of my country must have freedom of expression, both in Turkey and abroad, wherever they desire. Turkey should be like that too...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0049par0242	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0048par0243	Our citizens and ministers, of course, are not even the subject of discussion, should be so in Turkey and should be so abroad. Therefore, as the Republican People's Party on freedom of expression, I would like to say that as opposed to the pressure of those who say no during the referendum process in our country, we are also strongly and strongly opposed to those who say yes. Again, I don't even want to read your name here, I don't want to read the text itself, but it's the President who's in charge. Perhaps the President must make good use of the meaning and interpretation of what a consultant means and how it should be interpreted. We're going through a process where a statement from the president is needed. This process cannot be avoided by silence because the President is responsible for the unity of the country, for its order. Is Mr. President involved or not? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My question is very clear. It is clear that the President and his officials need to make a very urgent statement on this matter. Will this consultant continue his mission?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0050par0247	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0051par0250	Mr. President, thank you. On my way to Ankara, I offer my condolences to all workers, to the Turkish people, to 34 people who have been injured, for the death of seven women from the Turkish National Union who had been in an accident near Ingegöl. Because of the earthquake last week in Adıyaman, I wish all Adıyaman brothers well. Artvin is a city of Serhat, a city that rises like a flag. We salute you from here, Artvin, and congratulate you on your days of salvation. Germany and I are experiencing an unpleasant situation, not only Germany, but Austria, the Netherlands and Denmark are part of it. Basically, when we look at Europe, we see two different Europeans. One is an intellectual and political civilization on a global scale that refers to universal values, one is a racist, alien enemy who has been shut down in some critical times, especially in recent times and in history. Two Europes, unfortunately, can be side by side. I strongly condemn practices that may refer to embargoes against the authorities, the ministers, who have gone from Turkey to make statements to our citizens about the public vote there. The racist in this part of the politicians who claim the European values of Germany...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0052par0256	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0051par0257	...I expect them to speak their own ideas louder than local politicians who listen to foreign voices, and take care of the values of Europe, because Turkey's course and journey have been essentially two hundred years, and that's exactly what we're talking about in our time, and that's exactly what we're talking about now. In that sense, I call on European politicians to maintain European values without surrendering to such crises. I don't think Erasmus, Kant, Marx, Weber, and Hermann Hesse should behave in this way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0052par0259	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Article 104, 105 of the 98th and Internal Laws of the Constitution for the problems and solutions of animalism, which have fallen due to the wrong policies in our country, I offer and supply with respect to the opening of parliamentary research. The natural result of years of wrong policies in Turkey is the decline of animalism. Petism in Turkey is almost forgotten because of lost competition and production power. In livestock, sheep and cattle are also the main source of the production of meat and milk in Turkey. According to data from the International Agriculture and Food Organization (FAO), the species of sheep, goats, and cattle in Turkey has largely decreased over the past three years. However, the situation in the world is the opposite. During 2002-2004, the world's cattle presence increased by 0.8 per cent, while at the same time the presence of sheep increased by 2.4 per cent, while the presence of goats increased by 4.4 per cent. The reason for the decline in the existence of these three species is that animalism policies are wrong and animalism is not as important as its place in agriculture as it should be. In our country, the share of livestock in agriculture is approximately 25%. This rate, on the other hand, is at 60-70 percent in developed countries. In addition to being so small in agriculture, there are many problems with existing animalism. The price of animal feed, one of the sector's most important entries, has increased costs. The villagers who are already trying to make a small-scale animal business have to sell a few of the animals they own. That way, the number of animals goes down even further. One of the most important problems of the red meat industry in Turkey is, of course, unregistered. Because of the illegal meat and animal entrances, it's almost impossible to access the actual production numbers. The production of meat from fugitives, sacrificial animals and sacrificial animals is estimated to be around 150 or 200,000 tonnes. It is estimated that about 100-150,000 tons were smuggled into our country. Experts say that for the economic fugitive to be prevented, animalism development measures within the country must be taken and official imports must be made within the balance of supply demand. The share of animal production in Turkey is 25 per cent and 49 per cent in the EU. The Karkas meat yield in Turkey is 164 kilograms in the EU, while the average milk yield in Turkey is 1,800 litres per year, while the EU has 5,400 litres in the EU. The agricultural business is 4.1 million in Turkey and 7.5 million in the EU. The average number of cattle per business in Turkey is 4 heads and 45 heads in the EU. The production cost of 1 kg of beef in Turkey is 4.5 euros and 2.5 euros in the EU. Turkey's animal presence is diminishing day by day. It's only possible to talk about animal exports in memory of past years, and it's almost a success to talk about the possibility of importing red meat. As an incentive for VAT discounts on animal food and fertilizer, it is referred to as a major healing arrangement that makes our farmers and livestock citizens suffer. Because the healings have been made, they have remained, and they have melted. Despite countries' efforts to industrialize agriculture is one of the most important sectors that no country can ignore. In Turkey, industrialisation, such as Turkey, requires a parliamentary study of problems and solutions, as well as a serious consideration of animalism, the neglect of agriculture in a country full of distortions, the loss of animalism, the deep unhappiness of the village, the failure of consumers to cope with prices, and the lack of proper nutrition. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the deepening of the political crisis climate in Turkey, we propose and propose the need to open parliamentary research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to address all reasons, especially the political crisis, and to determine the road map. The economic crisis bell has begun to ring, as several decisive factors have been introduced by the President and the AKP in Turkey's politics. The democratic June 7th election results were not respected and the early election decision was imposed by the President, the constraint of social and individual freedoms, the solution to the Kurdish problem in particular, and the end of Turkey's democraticisation-based solution process by the President and AKP has brought the economy into a crisis. On the other side of the medallion, the reboot of conflict has become functional to cover up some problems. Some of these problems include unemployment, poverty, poverty, corruption, and economic crisis in the distribution of income, the problem of democracy, the problem of income. This economic crisis is on the verge of becoming a social infinitive. Because both sectoral and regional, as well as areas, Turkey is in the midst of an economic crisis with macro and micro indicators. While there is a political crisis in Turkey that exceeds the circumstances of elections being held and finalised, both the beginning of internal conflicts and the beginning of negative markets and ambiguity are causing the dollar to break unprecedentedly, consecutive records in Turkey's history. The dollar was spent over $3 for a long period of time, and for a while the amount of less than $3 went up to $3 again as of January 2016. The rise in dollars hits all sectors. In the banking sector, with the dollar rising, only one bank's loss exceeds $500 million. Progress shows the crisis in Turkey's banking sector is at stake. As a matter of fact, the critical picture of the situation will be clear when we consider this crisis threshold, along with the reality that capitalism is organizing the world economy through financial-capital. The rise of dollars and the loss of value over 20 per cent of Turkish lira against dollars have affected the banking sector, as well as the farmers' manufacturers. Imported goods, such as diesel, fertilizer, bait, medicine, have been given its share in the rise of dollars. Farmers give about three times the amount of government support to the rise in dollars. Increases in these products mean a great deal of cost to farmers, but also the emergence of situations that have a negative impact on the entire economy. In this context, food prices are dropping on the world scale, while food prices are rising in Turkey, and the economic drama that we are in shows more clearly. In some cities, including Bingol, Ağrı, Mush, Turkey, poverty exceeds a terrifying 20 per cent rate. In addition, the injustice of income distribution has increased dramatically throughout the history of the republic, and social dynamics have begun to have concrete reactions to this situation. An economic indicator, based on the sectoral and producer, will strengthen assessments based on Turkey's exports. With the July of July, which arrived after the June 7th elections, exports have been in constant decline for the past nine months, reaching the lowest level of the last three years in Turkey. In fact, a month and a half after this July, the increase in the dollar triggered the extra charge per person in the external debt to be $1,498. In similar dates, the per capita debt rose daily, while the national income per capita dropped to around 8,760 euros. In all this footage, the strong possibility of Turkey falling from G20 is one of the dangers. In the first seven months of 2015 alone, $44 billion of foreign capital left the country when economic understanding of foreign capital was not developed to attract foreign capital and structural reforms stopped. The central bank reserves have dropped from $134.4 billion to $117.9 billion, including gold. These reserves are not covering Turkey's short-term debts, but an open $11.9 billion is already ringing alarm bells for Turkey's economy. In the first half of 2015, the Ministry of Customs exempted foreign exchanges from the source of questioning, although he received severe criticism of issues such as money laundering and ISIS financing, he did not give up his decision to keep the hot money entry alive. But despite such a shady arrangement, the financial flow has not increased, on the contrary, it has decreased. At this point, Turkey returned to economic data in 2001. Even the word of debt to the IMF has been forgotten, the bells have started ringing at the door of international capital institutions such as the IMF for Turkey. In this context, when the government's expectations from the Davos Summit, which was to be held in the United States in the past few months, the situation constitutes economic co-existence. At this point, according to a study conducted in the second half of 2015 for reasons such as poor governance, corruption not being investigated, and in 2015 for reasons such as waste, 64.6% of the people in Turkey think the economy has been mismanaged, and 55 per cent of the population is waiting for the economic crisis. In this context, the solution to economic crisis belles playing through the overcoming of the political crisis is the inevitable necessity of Turkey's people's responsibility to the TBMM, as the economic world's prospects for positive stability after the November 1st elections have not been met, but has increased authoritarian and conflict-based policies have brought Turkey's economy into a deeper crisis. Therefore, we demand that a parliamentary survey be opened in Turkey, with the deepening of the political crisis, to prevent the economic crisis, to address all reasons, particularly the political crisis, and to determine the road map. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On December 19-24, 1978, we propose and establish the need to open Parliamental investigations under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine, find, and punish those who planned the massacre in Maras and offered political support to the people who were responsible and to face the massacre. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair One of the bloodiest and most brutal political massacres in the history of the Republic of Turkey occurred between December 19th and December 24, 1978 in the province of Maras. According to the official data, 111 people were killed, 176 were injured and 210 homes and 70 businesses were destroyed in this massacre, aimed at a certain group of beliefs, planned from the centre and created both property and political feet in the local sense. According to unofficial reliable information, however, nearly 500 put to death in the Maraş massacre between December 19th and December 24th. In the process leading to the Maraş massacre, the stages of provocation, lynching culture and massacre have been set in motion. The massacres began on December 19th with a bomb dropped at the Flower Cinema. But then it turned out that this bombing was a provocation that was planned for the Maras massacre. After the provocation, a bomb attack resulted in hundreds of deaths in an Alevi-dominated cartel. Two teachers were killed immediately, and funerals were attacked. On December 22nd, the attacks reached the size of the massacre against the Alekis as a result of propaganda by gang circles powered by dark focal points. While hundreds of our citizens were murdered and wounded during these four days, the silent public authority declared a curfew on December 24th. However, the massacre is deepened by following public officials responsible for providing public safety to this ban. Some of the centers that have been deployed in public have been planned and carried out in every way, raising the inhumanity of this massacre on the last day. The forensic process, which began after the Maraş massacre, also watched as a medium play. Crimes such as the killing of hundreds of people, the injury of thousands, the destruction of cities, the destruction of businesses and homes have been unpunished. Some of the people who were tried in the Maraş case were sentenced, but were later awarded punishment without jail time. As if this reward wasn't enough, many of the leading figures in the Maraş massacre were later taken into politics and claimed their rewards. Eventually, those involved in the Maraş massacre are still involved in Turkey's politics, defending these areas in the proceedings. This is nothing but a painting of shame. Those who committed the Maraş massacre and were present in the trial process were rewarded, while Halil Sıtkü Güllüoğlu, Ahmet Colonel, Ceyhan Can, lawyers facing the Maraş massacre case, were assassinated. Although years have passed since the Maraş massacre, the state's attitude towards our people, which wants to hold memorials for the establishment of justice, is similar to that of 1978. The memorials of the Maraş massacre are prohibited, police intervention is carried out on those who want to make a memorial program. In the end, every social and political community in Turkey, which has had a problem with all faiths and ethnic identities living together, must question how the state's stance, which has been continuous since December 19th-24th, 1978, has created divisions among the peoples. Again, every person in this country who demands the democratic future should be able to see Turkey's dark past and the necessity to face its present in the interest of the Maras massacre. An experience of truth and confrontation in the Maraş massacre would be an important example for the revelation of all the events that have led to public influence until today's curfews occurred in the name of the killings of Sheikh Sait, Ağrı Zilan, Çorum, Sivas, Gazi, Roboski, Zergele. In this scope, we ask that a parliamentary investigation be launched on December 19th-24, 1978, in order to establish, find, and punish those who planned the massacre in Maras with their hatred and offered political support, and conduct the process of facing this massacre. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, so I'll have it read and put to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Social Affairs Commissions Chairmans' Meeting will be held in Valletta, Malta, from 23 March to 24 March 2017. It is referred to under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, as part of Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is invited to represent the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted to the counter. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 7/3/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 7 March 2017, it was suggested that democratic and ethical rules of interstate relations, given by Mardin MP Mithat Sancar and his friends, were adopted in the same session of the Council of Turkey's parliamentary investigation motion to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly in order to review and assess the proposals under these rules of Turkey's foreign policy, and to be read in the same session of the talks on Tuesday (7/03/2017). The first statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0053par0341	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, Turkey is having crisis after crisis in foreign policy; rather, the government and the President are creating crisis after crisis. The last crisis is with Germany. Now, I'm not going to tell you the reasons for these crises here for a long time, but there are certain conditions in international relations for dignity. At the beginning of these conditions comes a free and prosperous life for your people in your own country. If you don't do that, no matter what other power you use, you don't have reputation, you don't have dignity, you just maybe use other tools to make an impact on certain matters, and it has limits. Let's get to the crisis with Germany. In fact, it's wrong to talk about the Turkey-German crisis, the crisis between the Turks and the Germans, the crisis between the Turks and the Germans. The crisis is between the government and Germany, between the AKP and the President and Germany, and the cause of the crisis is the government's rhetoric and the President's policies. What's the matter, let's sum it up: Some ministers were not allowed to meet for a referendum they wanted to hold in Germany. It was seen as a common ban by the pro-government media. There doesn't seem to be a general ban yet. But behind the obstacles here, there are some administrative reasons at the root, but there is obviously a reflection of a disease. In Germany, the local authorities are uncomfortable with the AKP's campaign and the President's campaigns. The government and the President reacted very strongly to this, but there's no way it's credible. Look, we defied these prohibitions. We spoke in the German press, saying our basic attitude was freedom. We have a right to say that. We're on a legitimate basis when we say this because we're against bans in Turkey and we're against freedom in Turkey, but when you object so loudly, when the AKP representatives or the President react so strongly, no one finds it credible. Why? These bans you're complaining about -- let's say these practices -- you're already doing 100 times as many as a thousand times that in this country. What gives you the right to be cut off as an apostle of democracy because two -- let's make it three -- you've been interrupted? Freedom of speech is very broad in this country, and therefore your hand is very strong, and you can argue with some of the practices you can interpret as obstruction of freedom of expression; no. How many newspapers have been closed in this country in the last few months? How many journalists are in jail in this country? How many associations, how many NGOs have been banned? So, who's doing all this? What is this for in this country? All this is supposed to be about saving democracy in this country, but you're saying it out there, not in this country. You claim to defend democracy in order to be democratized. Any government that advocates democracy would not resort to 1 percent of such bans. Now, how many times has this government given this country that it's impossible to take a path in foreign politics by bullying? Let's remember the Israeli crisis. What harsh words were used when Israel and the crisis arose, and I no longer have to remind you, what challenges were read to Israel. Didn't the President say that as long as I was alive, there would be no relationship with Israel as long as I was in charge? What did he do? Then he acted as if all this had not happened, and he went to extreme maneuvers to correct relations with Israel. So, who lost here, guys? The country has lost, the country's reputation has been undermined. Either you won't challenge it from such a high curtain or if you've read it, you'll stand by it. When you start to follow a policy that's the opposite of that, when you get to the opposite point of the challenge, they ask, "What the hell is this? What kind of foreign policy, what kind of administration? Didn't the same thing happen with Russia in a crisis? Yes, after the plane crash, thousands of bullies were paid for; no challenges, no bullying, no threats; then again, maneuvers were used to correct relationships, and compromises were made. And who loses when that happens? The country is losing, that's for sure, but there are people who have lost concretely. In the Israeli crisis, the victims of the Blue Marmara were supplied, then the bill was paid to them. The Blue Marmara victims have been billed for inconsistency foreign policy, baseless bullying. Not only the victims of the Blue Marmara, but the Gazan people who were trying to get bonuses paid. What about the Russian crisis? After the challenges against Russia, a serious crisis in economic relations arose. So, what happened? Tourists paid his bill in the first place, employees in many sectors. In this type of bullying, a certain number of people are being used as hostages, obviously; this is the case now, in Germany's case, in relations with Germany. Such high-pitched tension, bullying attitude, ultimately resulting in the use of Turkish people living in Germany as hostages. When this government does all these maneuvers, it will lead the bills to the Turkish people living in Germany. Of course the country is losing face. If you were a libertarian, if you were against the bans, perhaps your objection to bans would be taken seriously. It won't be taken seriously. For this country, we will continue to oppose the bans in Turkey and in another country for the future of this country, but you must also see that the objections are justified. Hard criticism from civil society, democratic public opinion, Europe is justified. When you look at these reviews, a lot of things are listed. For example, there is no jurisdiction. It's called independence. Is there? No. If 4,000 judges have been dismissed in the last eight months, what judge feels safe, without a single reason, without defense, without explanation, and with a verdict? In Deniz Yücel's case, the prosecutor has not filed an indictment yet, has declared President Deniz Yücel as a German agent, as a PKK representative. The president's a prosecutor? He's taken over the role of judge, let alone prosecutor. Then you'll go and say that the judiciary is independent in Turkey. Of course they won't believe you. One more thing, if you don't follow the ethical rules of your activities, you'll get hit in the face. The ministers of Germany are studying the referendum, aren't they? What resources, what money, what adjectives do they do that with? With our money, they go as a party representative with public taxes, but they go as minister, they use public resources. Well, that's against the law and it's against ethics. Of course, you're asked by the German public and by the democratic circles of Europe, and by the public, brother, which government activity, which diplomatic relationship do you come here for if you're coming here as a minister or another minister? If they're legitimate, the treasure will have to cover all our expenses when we go abroad. Get it out of the budget, give all parties the same opportunity, let the opposition representative go as far as the minister you sent, maybe then it'll be understood, but we're against it, too. Yes, in foreign policy, if you don't value democracy, human rights and ethical values, if you don't obey them, you'll lose them yourself, you'll lose them to the country, and you'll do serious damage to other people. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0054par0355	Thank you. Now, the first word against the proposal belongs to Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0359	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. I salute you all. In fact, one of the main issues of all political science is one of the issues of discussion, but when it comes to the content of the international system, in fact, it is incompatible with the content at all. The international system is made up of sovereign states. This structure is not a spontaneous, spontaneous system that was created today. All of humanity's experience, at different times, has expressed in a different way, and today it's based on the condition that nations rule within their own state, and a legal system -- a legal system for each state -- and it has the freedom to operate the legal system. The main problem here is the use of power. How will governments use this power in their relationship with other states when they can use power within their own law? Are they going to be moral here, they're going to stand by their words, they're going to be loyal to the agreements, or are they going to be completely arbitrary, self-interested, international issues, universal issues concerned with humanity, are they going to be material to their internal policies? This is actually the most fundamental problem Turkey and the world face today. It's actually a question of intimacy, a question of the sincerity of politicians, a question of the sincerity of politicians as human beings. Because governments are no different from people. We, as humans, rule the states; as mechanical robots, we do not rule as immoral, non-normal beings. However, the main problem facing Turkey today is a manifestation of an understanding that, in fact, the nature of the international system is evil, and on top of that, everything is acceptable to it. You're going to get up, you're going to host a person wanted by court order in this country for 30 days at your consulate -- in your own words -- and you're going to say that you didn't hide it here, and then you're going to say that you're looking for the law. What kind of intimacy is that? We have the right to sovereignty. We have courts. There's a law in this country. If you're going to talk about law, if you're going to talk about law, if you're going to talk about diplomacy, you're going to explain it first. Without asking this question, it's clear why newspapers closed in Turkey, closed in Turkey, where freedom of speech, freedom of press, closed in Turkey. It is clear why newspapers, televisions, have been turned off in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0056par0364	Why did you close our paper?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0365	Turkey lived on July 15th.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0057par0366	Explain to me why it's closed.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0367	We'll explain. It's okay to explain. If we still have to explain it to the Republican People's Party, we'll explain it to them. We've all seen what happened here on the night of July 15th.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0058par0369	All the generals are yours, ours?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0370	As long as we're on July 15th, we're all witnesses of the traitorous gang that tried to destroy Turkey's entire system after July 15th, aren't we?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0059par0371	Who gave them those planes?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0372	On behalf of this nation, what we've done on behalf of this country, a traitorous gang that wants to reverse the point that we've been trying to bring Turkey to, and there will be an international public opinion that supports them and doesn't actually hide their support very much, and we will discuss them through the word of any of these, by the word of any ordinary reporter. It's not that easy. We're dealing with a system that sets up the whole system because man's nature is evil, and because it's evil, it's an international system that uses it with relentless hypocrisy against Turkey. So far, almost all the theories written and drawn in academic terms -- there's only one exception, which is that it's not really accepted, except all of them -- are actually based on the fact that the world system is being used by the fiercely powerful. If you have a weapon, if you have the power, you can occupy a certain area when the day comes. Refugees are at your borders, it's not important, you can reject them. Even if international law forbids you to reject these people, even if it's a basic norm, even if it's a norm that's been accepted to this day, even if there's an immunity to civilians during the war process, even if there's a red line that's been crossed over many times, then why did you shut up and turn off the TV?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0060par0373	Because there's no answer.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0061par0374	It's not the press that's making Turkey's enemies.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0375	Our response is clear, and the people know the answer very well.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0061par0376	They're hostile to Turkey, not the press! That's why they came in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0377	First, for 30 days, the consulate will be looking for the answer to why that journalist was hiding.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0061par0378	They don't do journalism, it's obvious what they do.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0379	If there's going to be a major debate about this, Master knows all about it. Today, the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council have seen international law, organizations at the top of the international system, and decisions made by them. How many decisions has he made regarding Palestine? Even the non-vetomized decisions are the error of translation from French to English. It has not been applied. That's the kind of world we live in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0062par0380	Let's get out of there, now.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0381	We're not going anywhere. We will go after the wrong-doer, and we will go after the wrong-doer. We don't have to stand back from anyone, to be afraid of anyone. Had we been Godwary, we would have feared this a hundred years ago, a thousand years ago. These people are not that kind of people. No one can ever, ever say anything to a nation that won Çanakkale, won Malazzirt, responded to an invasion attempt on July 15th, to break up in an international arena, to stay away from international public opinion.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0063par0382	Who put the invaders in the cosmic room?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0064par0383	We put them in jail, put them in jail, put them in jail.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0055par0384	We want international law, international system to have basic human values, friends. However, I'm really afraid to say that the incident in Germany was just a journalist's.....the journalist's, because he's not a journalist. His actions are in the middle, the court's decision on him... it's a shame not to call anyone who gets every journalist's ID. It's not my job as a politician. In fact, journalists have their own professional ethics, so maybe they need to put it out there. I don't think it's fair to ask why our ministers, our MPs, our deputies, were canceled without seeing Islamophobia in Europe, without seeing Europe's hostility, without talking about Islamophobia, without talking about Turkish hostility, without talking about rising nationalism, without talking about racism. We have to answer these things first. In any case, there are 3.5 million Syrians -- there are more -- there are five or six million of them -- when you add Jordan, Lebanon -- it's not my place to stand up for some politicians here under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey and not take any responsibility for them, then their own internal problems, their own nationalism, their own internal political accounts, their own internal political accounts, their own election efforts. Look, we, uh, we just... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's too short, then... I have to say this. Just a moment ago, Your Honor -- he can also take words from violence, and he probably will -- by calling the President of this country...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0065par0390	Our preacher... Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0066par0392	Okay, Mr. Wolf, go ahead, finish your sentence, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0065par0393	He didn't finish our speech, but you can, Mr. President, so we have no objection. Seriously, you can.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0067par0394	Are you German? Why are you doing this?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0068par0395	We're for freedom, President, let him speak.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0069par0396	Okay, I'm gonna start my final sentences. Guys, just a moment ago, orator... See, this language is clearly used in different ways. Language is a very important element. If you refer to a country's president's statement in the international arena as "violence," you are using symbolic violence against anyone who votes for him, supports him. It's an insult. This word you say is the hope of the Syrian people who have been cut off from their land when you leave today. The world is greater than five. It is the hope of the people of Arakan.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0070par0399	Then 80 million is bigger than one.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0071par0400	80 million is bigger than one.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0069par0401	The world is greater than five. It is the hope of people who try to spend a dollar in Africa. What you're saying is that it's the only voice in the world for justice to come to the world now that there's a order for the oppressed to be heard. Thank you all.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0072par0404	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0073par0405	Mayor, we certainly wanted the microphone to open.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0074par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0072par0407	He spoke with no microphone, would you like to speak with him again, Mr. Yıldırım? I thought maybe you wouldn't want him if he kept his voice down. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0075par0409	Now, Mr. President, speaking on behalf of our group, Mr. Sancar has made his own point of view and claims very concrete. Mr. orator, it's clear why the televisions have been turned off, why the newspapers have been turned off, why the arrests have been made. He's completed 12 minutes without giving any concrete reason, and we've learned today what the middle word means without really saying anything.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0076par0410	Terror propaganda...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0077par0411	Another, the concept of tyranny, was an insult to those who voted for Mr. President! Mr. Kurt, question the co-captain of this Parliament's third-largest party -- one of you -- the Minister of Economics and ten days ago, the embarrassing words that the Home Secretary used to say, whether or not those six million people were told or not. From here on out, with your own free will, without the sight of Islamophobia, unwarranted and unsubstantiated allegations...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0078par0413	Do you want a word, Mr. Lightning, without teasing?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0079par0414	...he used the concepts of domestic nationalism to open up to our group. We want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0077par0415	He's already spoken, Mr. President, more than two minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0078par0416	I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not challenge the new tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0080par0420	Let's start with the cruel. So we're not saying this, you've always used it as a cause of pride. We're from Kasympaşa. I'm not the one who says, "No one in our group." You're the ones who use this as election propaganda, as material, but now that we say it, it's too much for you. Your appreciation...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0081par0421	No, you didn't say Kasimpaşalı, but it's okay if you say "Kasimpaşalı."
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0080par0422	No, Osman, wait a minute Osman, calm, calm.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0081par0423	Teacher, if you call me from Kasimpaşa, it'll be fine. Don't worry, Hajji.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0082par0424	The meaning of Kasimpaşalı is,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. If it's not bullying, let Kasimpaşalı acknowledge it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0080par0425	Please add my time, I can't suppress Osman's voice.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0083par0426	Go ahead, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0080par0428	Now, look, you're saying you're going after persecution, you're doing all kinds of cruelty here. If you do that, you won't be able to see any dignity out there in any democratic environment. Second: The international system is based on power relations. You've told it a long time; it's quite true, but since 1945 -- there's more -- there are countless organizations, environments, people working to bring ethical values to the international system, human rights. Do you mean to say that the international system is built on power, where there is no place for ethical principles, why do you expect us to behave ethically? We're not being ethical either. Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0084par0430	No.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0080par0431	Then come and explain what you mean. There is no second environment in Europe that opposes Islamophobia, all kinds of racism, all kinds of discrimination as determined as we do. In fact, policies that encourage the rise of the right in Europe are policies here, policies in this country; democracy in the name of Islamism, human rights violations, this pleasure in the name of Islamism, is a sense of democracy, and no one will believe you when you say that in there. What I'm trying to say is that you support Islamophobia and the rise of the right with your rhetoric and your policies, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0085par0434	Europe is desperate, helpless; there are three elections in Europe.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0086par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0087par0436	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0086par0437	Mr. Sancar may have wanted to say something else, but in his words and logic, he stated that our policies in Turkey constitute racism and alien hostility in Europe. It's a very unfair and unjust assessment; it's an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0087par0438	He said, "Come and explain." He said, "Come and explain." Two minutes... Please don't challenge a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0088par0444	Mr. President, dear friends, what are the causes of foreign enemy, racist, Islamophobic policies in Europe? Mithat Bey, surely he's excused and free to connect us with criticism, but I'm sure his own intellectual build-up and judgment has a more objective perspective on why the real causes are elsewhere. There is a refugee crisis going through Italy towards Europe, which has nothing to do with us, but hungry people from all over the world, poor people from all over the world are going to Europe to find bread. Why? Because they're rich. Because the distribution of bread on this earth is unfair. Because there's a lot of history behind this. You know these things. What does that have to do with the policies we're running today? There are two Europes. Yes, there's another Europe that reveals humanity in its most basic way, that raises it like a flag, that's the Europe of the Cants, but they've just written, they've just talked, and on the other side, unfortunately, it's the colonal system, and then it's the neocolonial system, from Africa to Asia. We don't expect you to praise us, you can criticize us...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0089par0447	Marx's, Rosa Luxemburg's Europe, don't forget!
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0090par0448	Teacher, don't defy Europe, don't mess things up.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0088par0449	...but as you establish the bond of causality, you need to establish a more objective and convincing bond, far away from the attempt to establish an extravagant bond of rational, political criticism. Today, the issue of Europe is the bread that shrinks because of the economic crisis, and they don't want others to lay hands on the bread, no matter who it is. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0091par0452	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0092par0453	Mr. President, I need to make a very brief statement because...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0091par0454	Okay, sit down, I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0092par0458	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Naci Hodja, I'm afraid you created Islamophobia, racism. I didn't say that, but you're encouraging it with your policies today. You encourage what exists. We, Turkish Democrats and European Democrats, are fighting against it together. Of course, our expectations are not from the diplomatic maneuvers of governments. We, along with all of the democrats of Europe -- wherever it is in the world -- are fighting against all these evils that you count, and so are Turkey. But if you do such antidemocratic, anti-human rights management in Turkey, and you go out and do such zigzacs, maneuvers, unreliable, disposable moves in foreign policy, here's what you do with the rise of the right in Europe. That's what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0091par0460	Thank you. In favour of the proposal, the second statement belongs to Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0093par0467	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the advice of the HDP group. I salute the High Council. First of all, I celebrate March 8th World Laboring Women's Day. I pray for God's mercy to our women workers, who died in today's traffic accident, and to heal the wounded immediately. My condolences to the entire working world and Turkey. Dear MPs, we condemn Germany's anti-Islamic and racist behavior towards some of our ministers to the end as the Republican People's Party. The Republican People's Party opposes any attempt to prevent the use of democratic rights. As a matter of fact, Mr. Deniz Baykal, our former President, also called off his meetings in Germany because of this behavior by Germany. To take a stand against Germany's stance on this issue is to defend the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, we are facing this behavior to the end, as the People's Party of the Republic, but I don't want to pass without saying that we really hope that the change in the crisis of Israel and Russia does not happen in this matter. Unfortunately, despite the harsh words of Mr. President and Mr. Foreign Minister on this matter -- for example, they say that the spirit of Nazism does not die in Germany -- the words of Economy Minister of Mr. Zeybekci, which today, unfortunately, is not in line with state stability. Despite the right criticism of the President and the Foreign Minister, Zeybekci calls Germany the friend home, and in Germany, we have millions of Turkish citizens in this friendly country. We have come to the house of friends, and we are in the house of friends, and we are with our loved ones. I'd like to point out that this attitude does not apply to the state's dignity and consistency. My dear friends, there are certain reasons for this attitude, which is absolutely not justified. One of them is the growing tendency and initiative of authoritarianism within; the other is the wrong foreign policy, and, as a result, isolation and disrepute for Turkey. For example, what we have come to today in Syria is clear. From the beginning, when things started happening in Syria, and the government in Turkey began following a wrong policy, we always said, we highlighted the importance of Turkey's national security, we said, "Don't do this, this would damage Turkey's national security, a Taliban-like region in northern Syria. We said that terrorism from there would do a lot of damage to Turkey, that our national security would be at risk, and unfortunately, we were right. In this context, as of this point, Operation Firat Shield has begun, its operation has begun. As the Republican People's Party, we also support this action, despite previous mistakes, although the situation was caused by a significant amount -- in terms of the government -- the Battle of the Barrier Shield was correct. He had two goals: one to draw ISIS and other terrorist elements away from our borders, and the other to prevent him from meeting Afrin (Afrin) and Afrin (Afrin) in that corridor, sometimes defined as the PYD corridor. I actually call that corridor a different name, the corridor of imperialism. A hundred years ago, Lloyd George mentioned this corridor, the valued MPs mentioned that this corridor must meet with the Mediterranean. I can't even say it, and it's never possible to make that dream come true, but after Afrin, there's Hatay on the other side of this corridor. They will never reach out to Hatay, as no one can reach out to any of Turkey's land, but this threat will cause serious problems in Turkey, especially Hatay. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have again on the agenda of Operation Rakka, which is linked to Syria. I just told you, as far as we're concerned today, Operation Firat Shield is correct, but going one step further from here is suicide, murder. We don't want our children to be martyred by the Rakka incident, which we believe is not necessary for Turkey's national security and interests. Therefore, I call upon the government from here: Please don't make this mistake, don't do this to our children, don't do this to Turkey. It's very painful that I can't help but point out something about this Rakka operation: it's very painful, and in recent days, the government has shown its intention to operate on Rakka. But here's the thing. From the United States of America, we are listening to comments on this issue in national media, foreign media. For example, according to the latest lobbying information -- a columnist today -- an important, a columnist close to the government -- said that the Chief of General Staff presented to the Council of Ministers about Rakka (Rakka) and in this presentation, he told the US Chief of General Staff that he believed that he had led the camp in Turkey (Free Syrian Army) to a large degree of persuasion. I mean, I don't mind saying it again, but it's been discussed whether he's going to use both our government and the government as a terrorist organization, which we call a terrorist organization, whether he's going to use it in the operation of America, Rakka or Turkey. This is never the case with the Republic of Turkey. It is not in the government's best interest to produce policies to put the Republic of Turkey in that sense with a terrorist organisation, I would also like to point out. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, although with this Enosis incident, there's been a great deal of danger at present, I'm telling you about Cyprus. In November, we were in Cyprus with Mr. Ozturk Yilmaz, our Vice President; we had very important talks; we met with all the officials, especially the President; we met with political party leaders, completely. Cyprus was going to a bad place. The Greek Cypriot initiative on Enosis (Enosis) has interrupted negotiations for the time being, but the compromises that have always been made in Cyprus continue with the beginning of the next talks. So I invite the government to inform Parliament on Cyprus, follow a more transparent policy, and never, ever do anything wrong. My love, my respect.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0094par0477	Thank you. Second and final speaker against the proposal, Bilecik MP Halil Eldemir. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0095par0481	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Group AK PARTI against the group's proposal, which the HDP Group has submitted according to the 19th Amendment. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation in the sight of you. Our foreign policy is actually based on co-operation with all countries, developing cooperation and getting along well. In fact, a more universal criterion is: Foreign policy is based on reciprocity. Turkey is an independent country. Turkey is not free to betray Turkey, to work against Turkey, to commit crimes in Turkey, to go abroad, to run abroad, to run away, to run away, whether it is a journalist, or to betray Turkey, no matter who it is, and to work against Turkey. If the countries that are out there are protecting workers against Turkey, then we all need to express our reaction as governments, as states and as all politicians in Parliament. Right now, the process of the next referendum in Europe is truly upsetting. We already have a specific agenda at the point of international agreements. Powers, which do not weight foreign policy, who do not want to live with other countries in foreign policy, who do not want to cooperate with them, do not care about agreements with foreign policy or other foreign countries. But in a moment, we're going to be talking about international agreements on our agenda. I hereby declare that we are against the HDP group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit01spe0096par0486	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0096par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/3/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelü and his friends have proposed a parliamentary survey of Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 7/3/2017 (1121 rows) in order to investigate the problems of our relatives and citizens of Rumeli-Balkan, who live in our country. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday (7/3/2017) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelü. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0097par0015	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, no one would willingly leave the land where they were born and raised, where the graves of their ancestors were. Either it is carried out as a requirement of international agreements, or it is the result of the immigration as a result of the pressure of massacre, oppression, looting, assimilation. For all these reasons and in various times, our citizens of Rumeli and Balkan origin, who settled in Turkey, settled in Turkey, before the republic, in the 93 Wars of the Balkans, after the republic, in the Lauzansian debate, in the free migration agreement signed with Yugoslavia, or for years, with migrations from Bulgaria, which continued for a long period. Today, in Turkey, we have citizens whose origins are Rumeli and the Balkans, who will be represented by 10 million when we look at them together with their families. What we want to address with our proposal is the Turkish and Muslim soybeans from Bulgaria after 1989, who migrated from Bulgaria to our country, and who live in Balkan geography outside the borders of Turkey. Many problems after the 1989 mandatory migration, of course, have been solved by the struggle of our migrant citizens, but it is also important to say that our government had been present with our relatives in measures taken at that time. However, there are still issues that remain unresolved today. In particular, after the mandatory migration of 1989, problems with retirement from the non-semination of working abroad have been a major loss, problems with the records of the population managers, a fact, whether through marriage or for some other reason, Turkey and our Turkish and Muslim relatives want to settle down in Turkey during this period are facing serious problems at the point of citizenship. I regret to say this, but I would like to share one fact in particular -- we support this too, we say it should be -- but we see that the sensitivity to Syrian immigrants is not shown at the same rate to our Rumeli and Balkan counterparts who want to come to Turkey and become citizens at this time, unfortunately. Congressmans, despite all the migrations, today, we still have millions of relatives in Balkan geography. Their burden is much more, I'm afraid. More than 150,000 Turks live in West Thrace, where our relatives cannot use the word "Turk" in the name of the association, they cannot select their own MPs at the 3 per cent country dam, thousands of Turks have been reduced to non-patriotic, fucking haymatlos, and state aid to their territories is rarely done. Again, unfortunately, it is difficult for them to obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. It is necessary to acknowledge that the status of our Bulgarian family members is better than that of Western Thrace. The overall proportion of the Turkish and Muslim population is, of course, a strong representation struggle over the years. However, there are still serious problems that need to be resolved. There are still difficulties at the point where Turkish language, culture, and beliefs take place. Our kinsmen have done their duty to this day, with their willingness to live their own language, beliefs, and cultures, and their stand against assimilation. This is exactly the time when our government, the government, should embrace our kinsmen without distinction and take an active role in solving problems. It's up to us and the will that governs the country to find the policies to keep these people together, to bind them together, to keep these people together like a fist. Here, the esteemed MPs, right here, the report card of the AKP is very bad. However the polarizing, separatist language and politics of the AKP put into Turkey, unfortunately, in the 90-year history of the Republic, at this point, perhaps for the first time, a power is divided by the same separatist approach that it is trying to implement in the Balkans, and at the point that it will bring them to one another, it is operating in its losses. It's treason to see the national case, the national case at the point of our kinsmen, in the form of a party case. It is likely in the 90-year history of the republic that the AKP has been able to identify a party supported by the state with the appearance of a party supported by the AKP, distinguishing it from the party and from the party abroad. It's a shame. It's a shame. This has come to a point today where government staffs, trustees, governors are trying to get involved in the process that needs to be talked about. We've been through this in 2013, dear lawmakers. We also lived in 2013, unfortunately, which did not benefit the AKP, nor did it benefit our relatives who lived there. Now, of course, speaking of that, we also have to say that today has been added to our long-standing crisis with Europe, as well as the crisis of working on propaganda and referendum. What happened to Minister of Justice Mr. Bekir Bozdağ and Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavoğlu is not something we can accept. For once, we, the Republican People's Party, have made our position and attitude very clear. Our president's statements at this point have revealed our position so far at the point of the cancelling of Mr. Deniz Baykal (Mr. Deniz)'s program in Germany and the removal of all obstacles to our freedom of democracy and freedom of expression. At this point, we believe that every member of parliament in the Republic of Turkey should be removed from every obstacle to every point in the world where every politician should go to every part of the world and do propaganda activity. We also condemn the attitude of Germany, the Netherlands, or other countries that can apply after that. The ministers have a statement on this; they say it's a shameful decision, a fascist practice, and it's unacceptable to block meetings. That's true, and that's the kind of explanation we're going to sign for. Well, that's true, but we have to look at what the will to say is doing in Turkey. Now, when a minister considers Germany's decision that does not allow a meeting as an anti-democracy, fascist decision, how does a no-no campaign assess the blackout of electricity, and how does he view this meeting not being allowed? Or why doesn't a minister open his mouth to a judicial staff who says that no workers should be treated like terrorists? The discrepancy in this matter is unfortunately reflected in all areas of the AKP. There's another truth, and I'd like to share it with you. At the group meeting today, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu also told us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially since it's relevant. We have tens of thousands of citizens in Turkey who have the right to vote in the Bulgarian elections. They have the right to vote both in Turkey and Bulgaria as double citizens. Therefore, when Turkish and Muslim politicians who are also political in Bulgaria arrive, they also come to Turkey and participate in propaganda activities in Turkey. Just as we, or ministers, have been on our agenda today, have gone to Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Belgium, and the Turkish and Muslim politicians in Bulgaria have the chance to come to Turkey and do propaganda on the double citizens here. The AKP knows today that it clearly supports a party in Bulgaria and makes a distinction between the Turks and our relatives, and the whole world knows that. Well, there are MPs from the party that the AKP does not support. Just as ministers today go to Germany and don't allow Germany to have a meeting, we raise the hell up together, and, together, we say it's anti-democratic, but Turkey forbids a Turkish and Muslim MP in Bulgaria to come in here and hold a meeting with the two citizens in Turkey; it's forbidden for him to enter Turkey and do propaganda -- now, we tell the ministers that it's anti-democratic when they're not allowed to meet in Germany -- but Turkey, Turkey, a Turkish and Muslim MP in Bulgaria, has banned from meeting with the two citizens here. Now, Bulgaria has general elections on March 26th, so, now, the MPs of another party, the non-supported party, will not be able to enter Turkey; this is AKP's idea of democracy. We've made motions on this, we've submitted questions, we haven't received a response from the Home Office. It could be something special, it could be something secret, you don't answer our motion, you send in a bureaucrat, you tell him why. No, it's a totally fun app. Now, at the coming point, here, you have to turn around and look in the mirror a little bit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have to look in the mirror and assess who's entering the anti-democracy movement.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0098par0027	Mr. President, give me a minute, clerk.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0099par0028	Give me a minute.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0098par0029	The clerk's a member, give me a minute.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0099par0030	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0100par0031	The Balkans say yes. Tekirdağ says yes. The Balkans say yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0101par0032	Mr. President, I left it to your discretion, I didn't ask for time.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0102par0033	Anyway, let's get this over with. On a high demand, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0101par0034	Mr. President, thank you, thank you. At this point, you have to stop and look in a mirror and assess the situation. I respectfully salute the General Assembly and ask all lawmakers to support our motion in order not to abuse the initiative shown by Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0103par0039	The Balkans say yes, Tekirdağ says yes, Turkey says yes. The Balkans say yes, Emre says yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0101par0041	Right.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0103par0043	I'm going to the Balkans this week, where I work, he says yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0104par0044	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Now, the first word against the Republican People's Party's proposal belongs to Kopeli MP Saffet Sandzaklı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Once again, our condolences are repeated here. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0105par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute you all. Of course, when it comes to the Balkans, it's up to us to say a few sentences as a Balkan son. There's something we've always said, we say that the safety of Turkey begins in the Balkans, that our family members there, our religious leaders there are very important to us. But we're a little short on apps. Of course, I've made a promise against the Republican People's Party's motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation, but I'm going to speak in favor of it, and I love it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0106par0055	We'll vote for you as a group.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0105par0056	Let me rephrase that we will vote in favor of the National Movement Party. Now, of course, the Balkans are such a geography that our ancestors ruled there for six hundred years; they took justice, brotherhood, friendship, and the Balkans have never forgotten us. Now, in the early 1990s, when the Bosnian War began, I went to Belgrade for something -- I told you this before -- the main news bulletin of Belgrade TV in Belgrade says, "We killed 250 Turks in today's conflict. I mean, we killed the Bosnians. He doesn't say, "We killed the Muslim." He doesn't say, "We killed 250 Turks." He says, "We killed 250 Turks." As I said earlier, the sight of the Crusaders in the Balkans, they named all the people in the region, and all the atrocities they did there, all the things they wanted to do to the Turks, and the beginning of what they wanted to do to Turkey. Of course, this motion is an important motion. If we can get a team together on this, it'll help if we can do a study. Of course, we have problems, some of which are the issues that our relatives in the Balkan countries face in Turkey, and the issues that they expect to resolve. Mr. Mehmet Müezzinoglu, our dear citizen of these matters, came and listened to NGOs in Istanbul, and he was told, and he's already in charge of these matters, and I'm guessing he's doing a study, but unfortunately the bureaucracy in Turkey is a little slow, so I think that if we all agree to this research proposal, we can push the bureaucracy a little bit harder and do better work. For example, our friends who are in Turkey have some problems, I'll just say their names, their headlines, Emre bro mentioned a little bit: there's a housing problem, there's a civic issue, there's a health security problem, there's problems with work permits -- there's pension problems, there's equivalence problems with universities, and there's foreign student fees, and there's a ban on foreign vehicles that reside in Turkey, and there's 8th place. Now, of course, we can solve all this here. How can we solve it? I've also written as a solution proposal, and I'll read it to you here: It is possible that a single law can solve all these problems with an identity or so-called card in Turkey based on a document given by the consulates of the Republic of Turkey to our descendants in Rumeli and Balkan countries. For example, Greece did this, allowing Istanbul's Greeks to benefit from all rights except voting. If requested, this card can also apply for citizenship. So this is a solution proposal, of course, that can be improved. But what I'm trying to say more is that our family members and our religious associates who live there have very serious problems. Yeah, there's pressure, there's violence, they're doing everything they can. But in order for us to develop them a little bit, for example, I have two suggestions, one of which is that we have to invest in the private sector with the government's support, and we have to invest in those countries. There's one thing I know very well in the area where I was born: there's an incredible amount of livestock and agriculture. And the minimum wage there is now 135-140 euros, and since the workers have a low salary, I'm saying that all of the investments there are really profitable investments, and everyone knows that. If I'm not mistaken a few months ago, we gave a quota of 5,700 tons, the meat quota to Bosnia, the meat industry revitalized in Bosnia, which we can spread to all Balkan countries. If I'm not mistaken, he's got 15,000 tons of quotas in this March. If we provide such means, the people there will increase their material resources, and if their material resources increase, they will have high morale, and they will know that we have taken care of them. Of course, if we keep bringing the meat from America, Argentina, Australia, Uruguay, then there's something wrong with it, my friends. At the point of helping Balkan countries, if we can turn it towards the Balkans -- where there is serious capacity, the quality of meat is better and cheaper -- we can help our descendants there. Of course, we watch it on TV, we love the Balkans very much, we love our relatives, but as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, I don't think we know the Balkans very well, and I don't think we know those problems very well. This is: Our municipalities, our private administrations -- we do -- but not enough -- are doing cultural tours of 81 provinces every year in the Memorial Day, thousands of buses, hundreds of planes, if they're going to Çanakkale, we have to do these tours to the Balkans. Imagine -- I always give examples of Bosnia, or Bulgaria, from a country of 3 or 4 million -- if we all calculate how much money a few hundred thousand people will leave when they go to the Balkans on a cultural tour, each year, where they will be able to recognize our relatives from Turkey in the name of culture tours, at the point of recognising our religious leaders. When you go to the Balkans today, especially after the former Yugoslavia is divided into seven, believe me, the bosses of all factories are either Serbs or Croats, who are very few Muslims, the boss. Ours are workers, and unfortunately, they can't get jobs. For him, as our Republic of Turkey, we need to offer our sons, our descendants, the Balkans, the means to create jobs, create jobs, create material opportunities for them. I'd like to say thank you to the YOK here. There is only one International Vision University in Europe and the Balkans that teaches Turkish in Turkish at Gostivar. They came with the Chancellor and his deputies, and they asked us to, and we spoke to the head of the CEC and his team, and they gave themselves recognition. This was a very important thing to do because it was the only university in Europe and the Balkans that studied Turkish. Which is why I'd like to thank the director and his team from here. Of course, how many family members do we have in the Balkans? It's estimated 10 million. If you ask our 10 million relatives, the security of this 10 million people is always starting in the Balkans. We're telling you clearly -- half my family is still there -- and maybe half my family's family -- if one of those people is in danger, Turkey is in trouble, would you risk your life? Believe me, without exception, 10 million of those 10 million in the Balkans are willing to die. E, when so many of our family members are in trouble there, a team must be set up to investigate this inquiry by the Republican People's Party. I don't think it's a party or anything... I don't know, Emre, of course, even if you did -- probably the ruling party will refuse -- I wish we had given it together.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0107par0067	Let them say yes now.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0105par0068	How?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0107par0069	Let them say yes now.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0105par0070	I mean, I wish we'd done this together, we'd put together a team of research proposals... but, politically, since I've been here, there's one thing I've understood, if the ruling party doesn't give it, but maybe it can be renegotiated and it can be given as a common thing, Mr. Presidents, we're asking you to do it. That's all I have to say for now. I salute all our friends in the Balkans from here, kissing them all by the forehead. Thank you for listening to me, thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0108par0074	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. Now, in favour of the proposal, the second word belongs to İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0109par0078	Mr. President, dear friends, there is no serious obstacle to supporting the proposal, this proposal can be supported. However, I'm curious as to whether or not we agreed on a more general concept involved in this proposal since this morning. Inevitably, both history and geography of Turkey impose an objective position on itself, regardless of what its rulers think. This objective position gives a very clear conclusion that Turkey should have a general, political, historical attitude, which is built by a large number of neighbours, international forces, international alliances. Everyone who rules Turkey, no matter what's in their heart, eventually comes to these historical limits. Those who had lived in Turkey long enough to remember that all prime ministers had made a trip to Russia before they fell, because the system of alliance had taken them out of the historical context that they really should have, so they want to apply to that date again, return to historical, regional objectiveness, but time has passed. Therefore, I believe Turkey needs a new internal agreement on the basic global, regional, national issues facing it today. As long as we do not have such an agreement, both domestic policy and foreign policy can be carried out as a series of catastrophes in Turkey, heavy cracks, internal conflicts and international conflicts. Today, outside ministers of Turkey face such a picture and try to find out why. Why is Turkey living in a series of intertwined diplomatic failures and disasters? Why, in fact, is the rise that was always thought to last just three or four years ago moving towards a pause, and now to a breaking point? I, in fact, think that, here, basically, the power that rules Turkey should take the main responsibility. Turkey's foreign and domestic politics, led by the Justice and Development Party, are now skating with heavy international and domestic crises, mainly because Turkey has adopted an internal and foreign policy that drives its 100-year historical march away from its natural flow direction. We are often reminded of July 15th. Yes, July 15th is indeed an extremely harsh breaking point, but what it also means is that is that there is no role in this: in the fact that internal politics is going on and on and on and off and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on? Can the responsibility of a non-controversial approach be called zero conflict, zero conflict. Can it be sought only in the outside world? I just listened carefully to our friend speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, who described a world where everyone is our enemy. Now, I don't think we're living in a world like this, one. Second, this world is not just about states; on the contrary, we are in a different world of citizens, international institutions, class organizations, gender-based organisations, ecological partnerships, working partnerships; we are in a whole other world. In fact, people built this world by breaking into these 17th, 18th - century acceptances. We are no longer in the world of Metternich. We have come from the days when the world lived in a new, unprecedented order, transformed by revolutions. The bipolar world was destroyed, but his enormous savings continue to travel with us. For us, this savings is basically a whole new opportunity for communities, classrooms, parties, powers that are always denied to the state as far away from the state as we are, even in conflict with the state; it allows us to solve issues that we can't solve with the state by agreeing with other citizens of the world internationally. That's what all the parties, all the political forces, all the parties that are in trouble, the victims, eventually applied for. Why do you think the Prime Minister and the President are constantly calling the oppressed nations of the world; they think they're underdogs? I know they don't really belong to the oppressed world, but they don't seem to, but they can't hear their voices, or they get an echo, it's a pathological echo. For the past five years, I've represented both our House and our party in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I've seen how many international issues have been handled. The entire world, the entire international system, is our enemy; Zenophobic, Islamophobic, Turkophobic. British conservatives, right-wing forces of Poland and Hungary, right-wingers of the Czech Republic, right-wingers of Austria, representatives of Turkey's majority party, government party at each human rights debate. Let's see who are the allies of Turkey's ruling party in Europe: Theresa May is, Sarkozy is, Berlusconi is, Putin is. So, whatever there is -- xenophobic, Turkophobic, Islamophobic, whatever there is -- they are his main supporters in the Justice and Development Party's international debate with opponents inside and in the region. So, it's a world of power, perhaps it's the understanding of the world that forced those who ruled the internal and foreign policy of the Justice and Development Party to say what they said yesterday, "Kaq. " So I say, "Come, let's look at something else while the road is near." One: Let's open the door to a new world inside, a new Turkey, a new life, a new citizenship, a negotiation with those seeking new citizenship, all parties, but it's probably too late for that. We will go to a vote in April 16th, and there will be a vote on a new presidential regime in Turkey, where those who make a great deal of effort to reach a compromise, who make a lot of efforts for a new constitution, who strive for a constitutional quest based on the basis of free citizenship, and one person will be pushed aside and one person will be declared ruler of the Assembly, the judiciary, the administration, and the Armed Forces. I hope this vote will be rejected by our people, or those who personally demand this vote will step backwards from here, seeing the tremendous tension that will carry us. That's why people from other parts of the world are interested in why you're interested in our internal debate. With an 80 million population, with an army of 1 million, with the economic capacity of 20 major economies in the world, when Turkey goes to the wrong place in the Middle East, the Caucasus go to the wrong place, the Balkans go to the wrong place. People who have suffered the most from fascism have carefully watched and taken a stand on the possibility of a fascist dictatorship at the foot of Europe. Maybe we'll be able to take the right step, assuming that there's a share in what's happened to us. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0110par0088	Thank you. The second and final speaker against the proposal is Bursa MP Hakan Sargegoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal by my fellow public defenders, CHP. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party's group proposal is to establish a commission for the investigation of the problems of our fellow Balkans and citizens of Rumeli Balkans in our country. First of all, Mr. Bridgel, I'm very pleased that CHP has said something about the Balkans and our Balkan-rooted citizens. The future of the Balkans and the relatives who live here must be a common concern for all of us to live in peace and security. Members of parliament, on many occasions, Turkey is limited to 786 thousand square kilometers, but our heart geography has a much wider Indian. Our brothers in the Caucasus, the Middle East, even North African geography, especially the Balkans, see Turkey as a port to be sheltered, an island to be trusted. Therefore, our voice reaching here must be fair, righteous, and, above all, reassuring. Members of parliament, the EC PARTY authorities have always been interested in the Balkans from the beginning, concerned about the problems of our relatives and relatives in this region, and in no way allowed them to feel alone. In the same way, their relationship with the states under their flags has taken them to the highest level, allowing our relatives and relatives in the region to live in safety. Congressmans, when we look at the reason for the group's proposal, there's a specific statement that needs to be corrected here. The group's proposal included a statement like the one left alone by our relatives in the Balkans, which is not true. First of all, our institutions, such as the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Societys, TİKA, the Dolphin Emre Institute and the AFAD, established during the AK PARTY rule, are our institutions with representatives and activities in the field. See, today's investment and activities in the region amounted to $313m. However, investment in the Balkans during the eight years before the EC PARTI rulings was only $13,75,000. As it turns out, this amount has increased nearly 24 times in the AK PARTY administrations. I would like to tell my friends of the Republican People's Party (CHP) MP who proposed this group: Did you know that Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, is visiting West Thrace as a Prime Minister, 52 years later? Again, did you know that for the first time in the history of the Republic, eighty-five years later, a Turkish Prime Minister visits Kırcaali for the first time? If the AK PARTY authorities, as you say, had left the people of the region alone in that sense, today would not have been the extent of the love shown to our party and to our country and to our President. We know this from the person who, at every turn, went down to the squares in Kosovo, in Prizren, in Sarajevo, holding Turkish flags and screaming for joy in the areas of the crisis here.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0112par0100	The Balkans say yes. Hakan says yes. The Balkans say yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0113par0101	They depend on democracy, democracy. They don't depend on the person, they belong to the government, the institution.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0102	That's after the election results, Mr. Bridge. Congressmans, as you know, many of our relatives and relatives have emigrated to Turkey and continue to live here in the past, through bloody wars, political conflicts and so on. So, from the very first moment, the AK PARTI authorities have stabbed our citizens with a solution to their problems and done everything they could to make their lives easier. For example, an interesting example is that I still haven't been able to answer that question, as a brother who's been through the same ordeal. Before 2002, I still ask myself, why haven't some of our family members been given a residence statement that wants to come to Turkey and get a residence permit due to the difficulties they have experienced in the countries they've been in? But this process ended only five months after the beginning of our rule in 2002. However, if we gave these people a residence permit, they wouldn't go to these countries every three months to get in and out of their homes, but now it's been provided.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0114par0104	Mr. Hakan, Ahiska.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0105	We'll talk about the Balkans, of course, about the Ahýska Turks. It's the Balkans, and we know they have problems. For example, especially because of the absence of housing documents, our family members came here and came because they were having a lot of trouble here. So, for other reasons, they came because of the difficulties they had lived there, and in order to get a resident thesis, thousands of our relatives reported to their states that they wanted to get out of their citizenship, and they got out, they got a residence statement. Why did we do that? Why don't we question that? Friends, for example, you mentioned that the right to retirement was not granted. You've got it all wrong. In 2008, under Article 3201, the interim 6th article added to the Law, where all the work of our brothers who came here in the 1989 migration was recognized, and they were borrowed, and 37,000 retired.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0108	They're the ones who are forced to emigrate. They're part of the mandatory migration.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0109	I'm telling you, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0110	And those who came after him, and those who came after him?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0111	That's what I'm saying. He doesn't mean the ones that come after him, they're... look, you're wrong again. There's 3,000 people there.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0113	You're wrong.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0114	There are 3,000 people who have not entered the gate and have not been sent in advance to Austria, Greece or so. This brother of yours has proposed the law, and we'll solve it, Mr. Emre, and you can back me up. Look, I'm calling the CHP Group, and you'll back me up.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0115	If you're gonna figure it out, we'll give it to you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0116	Look, for example, another matter. Now, first of all, our relatives who came here in 1989, who were forced to emigrate, invested money here, and were told that they would be given a home. In 1992-1993, as far as I know, there was a CHP power, even if it was a coalition. Those friends weren't given homes, and they didn't get the advance they had invested for years. We returned these advancees on the terms of that day, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0117	That's not what happened.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0118	That's what happened. For example, I'm going to say another thing, you said something here -- in pain -- that our family members are self-inflicted with the Syrians -- never, that's a very wrong term. Our relatives don't make an assessment of themselves through the Syrians.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0120	I'm not the one who said it, you're gonna tell the people who did it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0121	Because, you see, today, we're going to send our relatives back to their country about Syria. They ask those who say, "What are we doing there?" They ask: "If the Republican People's Party had power in 1989, would they have closed the doors when we wanted to take refuge in the persecution of Jivkov??" They ask.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0116par0122	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0115par0123	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0124	These people have the same feeling, the same feeling.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0117par0126	Yeah, they'll close the doors, don't worry, they've already closed them. He had a Boraltan Bridge...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0127	Guys, look, what we're saying is that we're going to get the point, the goal, we're the politicians, we're going to know what it is.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0118par0128	You understand how you want to understand it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0129	Now, another thing: look, you said they were comparing themselves to the Syrians. No, my friend. A law passed here two weeks ago, what was it? You know what it was? Even though we're family members, we've included all our brothers and sisters who are not Turkish citizens in the health care system, which is a reform. I hereby thank our President, our Prime Minister, our Minister of Labour and Social Security here. Now, for us, our relatives -- whatever the Turkish citizen -- are the main elements of this nation, and they will be treated that way. Oh, here's something special: I'm looking at the date of the group proposal, 7/3/2017, which is today. Friends, you know our Department of Labor and Social Security has recently started a chain of workshops. We collected all the soy brothers' associations and Balkan associations all over Turkey in Ankara, then we collected them in İzmir, regionally, then in Istanbul, and finally on Sunday, we did this; we invited the mayor of the Republican People's Party, Erkan Aydın, my brother came, thank you, the mayor didn't come, and the solution-oriented concept that we did there just found a way to listen to them, created an air. Now, when the CHP sees this, they're going after it, and they're taking it out on this motion.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0118par0131	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0132	Guys, we've got problems on the table...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0119par0133	Yeah, it's over, they're sleeping...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0134	What commission are you talking about, for God's sake? Look, as your brother, who came from there, who knows the pain, who's fallen off the wagon, don't be a bitch when you're talking about the Balkans. For example, you said a few things about the Bulgarian elections here. I know your party's top party doesn't share your views on this, and I know they're not known, as you say, in the eyes of NGOs. Because we went with Ahmet Akin to the convention in Bulgaria. If I try to tell you the nature of the matter here, I won't have time for it, but review yourself again, our kinsmen don't think like you do. If you had said this to our relatives, there is an election on March 26th. Come on, guys, we're all... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... In a way, I think it would be much better if you said, "Go to Bulgaria for the holiday of democracy." We've put these things on the table, we've been working on solutions, we've reached the results. The law we passed last week solved most of the problems in terms of work and social security, and now we're left with the immigration board, the citizenship issue, and you'll see that we've solved it very quickly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0120par0140	Send me the solution results.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0121par0141	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0111par0142	By the way, I want to thank Mr. Sandzak for his constructive criticism. Indeed, as a fallen brother, he expressed them with feeling, emotion, and in that sense, I thank you. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0121par0145	Thank you. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0122par0147	Mr. President, I'd like to ask for a moment's notice, but Mr. Secretary, many times he doesn't speak the truth, he doesn't speak the truth...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0121par0148	I promise not to tease you for two minutes, Mr. Bridge. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0122par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there are a lot of things that we need to fix or respond to bullying. First of all, our relatives there don't think they're left alone. And for that reason, the speaker gave an example from TİKA. But what I do know is that today Greece has no TİKA, Bulgaria has no TİKA. Both Bulgaria and Greece do not allow the TİKA (TİKA) activities. Yes, there is TİKA, there is in other Balkan countries, but not in Bulgaria, where our nearly a million relatives live, there is not in Greece, where nearly 200,000 of our relatives and Muslims live; this is the first one. Second: The 1989 migration has been made in order for the pension of those who have come from Bulgaria to be forced to emigrate, and this has been done not only in your time, but in the old way.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0123par0156	No, it was done in 2008.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0124par0157	It's the law. When did the law come out, you take care of it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0122par0158	But here's the thing, I said in my speech that even today, from Bulgaria to Turkey, populations are coming, migration is coming. We say that after becoming a citizen, the pension rights of our family members, who are not part of the 1989 mandatory migration, must also be corrected. Then, on the other hand, you say I disagree with my party. Well, let's just say that our party has no opinion on the Bulgarian elections. Does your party have an opinion?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0125par0160	Of course I do, of course I do.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0122par0161	Do you have a party to support in the Bulgarian elections? What you're defending is that they're elected MPs. Is there someone you call them? Or did you put the governors, the governors, behind it, and drag them into it, or did I just tell this MP not to go into Turkey? (CHEERING) We don't have any views as a party. Our kinsmen know it well; they go to the chest, and they do what they must; and we have no metazors for anyone. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0126par0164	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0127par0165	You've polarized Bulgaria, you've divided Bulgaria.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0128par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0126par0167	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0128par0168	Mr. President, in his statements, he's been taunting me with a different way of understanding and explaining what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0126par0169	Mr. Sergeant, you've spoken to each other. Let's get sick of it here if you want.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0129par0170	Sir, there's no teasing. Hakan Sergeant, that's enough, there's no teasing. No teasing, no teasing.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0130par0171	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0131par0172	Mr. President, we'd like a moment according to 60.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0132par0173	Let's open it up to 60.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0133par0174	The Balkans say yes, the Balkans say. I'm in the Balkans next week, 80% yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0134par0177	Mr. President, thank you. I want to say that I really don't appreciate the Republican People's Party having no opinion about Bulgaria. I'm curious as to what he has an opinion on, and, frankly, this is the first one.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0135par0179	He means intervention.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0134par0180	Second: our family members, nearly a million of our family members. We have to have opinions for those relatives, we have to have activities, we have to have efforts. If we don't do that, then we'll show that we're not fulfilling our responsibilities to them. Now, a second issue is that TİKA is not in Greece, and he talks about the fact that TİKA is not in Bulgaria, and then he gets up and says, "What do you have to do with the Bulgarian elections?" Friends, there was a Turkish party in Bulgaria, which became a government partner.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0136par0182	I still do.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0134par0183	From then on, you don't have to ask me why TİKA couldn't get in there, even though he was a government partner. Here, you'll have to go back and do the accounting, Mr. Bridge. I say we take good care of these, make good use of them. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0137par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0138par0186	I'll just contain it, sir. I don't want any promises. I'll just file a report.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0137par0187	Mr. Bridge, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0138par0188	I'm not going to say anything, sir, I'm not going to force it, I'm just going to contain it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0137par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0138par0190	We have many ideas about Bulgaria, many programs. But what we're saying here is that what we just said on the stand -- and he understood it very well -- we don't have any pressure on voters who have the right to vote in Bulgaria, we don't have the will to polarize those elections. We always argue that our kin should stick together like fists.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0139par0192	They make up their mind, we don't.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0140par0193	You're polarizing everything, everywhere.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0141par0194	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1311) I propose that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. 6/3/2017 In favour of the proposal, the first statement is by İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0142par0212	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. 2/1311) I have received a pledge on the main Law Proposal. The proposal of the law is an offer to prevent violence and murder against women, adding violence against women based on social gender to 11 articles in the Penal Code and the Penal Code. We're going to stop all working women's organizations and women's killings in the first place, thank you for the platform, and with their contribution, we've prepared this offer, and we've presented it here with our women's deputies. And as a male MP, I would like to say that I am proud and honored to defend it here. Of course, there are no female MPs here, unfortunately, very few. First of all -- now that I think about it -- I gave my first speech on March 8, 1987 in Diyarbakir. There was Akin Birdal, Reha Isha Isvan and Emine Eyüboğlu, and I was a young lawyer, and there was no lawyer to talk about women's rights, but there was no one to talk about women's rights, but I had a speech at the Emek Cinema on March 8, 1987 in Diyarbakır. Now, about thirty years later, I wish I could express from here that I was reluctant to discuss women's rights and violence against women in Parliament under harsher conditions. Dear friends, I have sent this proposal to the members of the group, a 13-point proposal, which I hope has been examined, especially by the Justice and Development Party. Tomorrow is March 8th. Ladies and gentlemen of the Justice and Development Party, you can do such a good deed. So for the first time, you can bring up a proposal from the opposition, a proposal, at least to be transferred to the commission. Look, really, there's no environment where women lawmakers can say no if they examine it, but let's not say no here today; there's no ideology, there's no political concern; their only goal is to reduce the lack of punishment for violence against women, reduce the tolerance of justice, reduce the tolerance of administrative authorities. Why am I saying this? Because look, the European Court of Human Rights has a lot of decisions to start with, that it condemns Turkey. There is a contract under the Council of Europe to prevent violence against women, but we have obligations there... okay, we have the Ministry of the Family -- the Ministry of Women, the Ministry of Family -- there are a lot of studies, but we can't eliminate the tolerance of administrative authorities and judicial authorities for this injustice. Because in our penal code and execution code, there are substances that allow the tolerance of men, male judges, male staff, and security guard. We say: "Come, let us separate these things from the penal code. Look, I've only put up the 2016 painting here. And if you look at this painting, you'll see how desperate it is. We see what a terrible picture we're facing of both sexual abuse, violence against children, and murder against women, and violence. So let's act here today -- there's a referendum, there's something else -- not with political concerns, but with women's anxiety, and at least with the concern that violence against women should be reduced, and at least in this majority of men, let's make a compromise. You're not really going to shrink by it, so you're going to be saying yes to something. I've been speaking here for five years according to 37, and you know that the offers I've brought are very true, but you didn't say yes to one, you didn't say yes to one at the point of going to the commission. Let's at least make this beautiful because of March 8th Women's Day. First of all, I salute the women's MPs, all of our women's staff in Parliament, and I celebrate Women's Day. I'm also celebrating the March 8th of our women MPs who aren't here and who should be in prison. Tomorrow, hopefully, will be a nonviolent Labor Women's Day celebration. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0143par0221	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Now on behalf of an MP, Istanbul MP Selina Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0144par0225	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are tomorrow, March 8th, Women's Day. Many things have actually been said about this day, many things are written and drawn, but there is no significant improvement in Turkey or in the world about this problem. So we're not having the right argument, or the words they're saying are far from sincere, and they're actually being said to avoid the agenda. For centuries, of course, we know that it is impossible to change this system of patriarchal order from today to tomorrow, and we as women are aware of it, but yet every March 8th, one wants men to remember, at least on March 9th, the promises made by male politicians. And tomorrow we'll be carrying that hope again. Today, if we still haven't made an arrangement in this Parliament to punish sexist, segregating words, if we didn't make the class of gender equality mandatory in primary school, we're not actually taking seriously the problem of violence against women, the problem of social inequality in terms of gender. As a matter of fact, as women today, we have even more responsibilities on our shoulders in terms of women's human rights. We're surrounded by wars and battles. The biggest victims of these wars are women, as always. Right next to us, you know, the women that ISIS wants to enslave live in our country today. Again, women are the biggest victims of the conflicting process and the extraordinary state in our country. We have to remember that, too. Now, I'd like to fulfill a mission that history has imposed on me on this promise. There's over a century of women's rights struggles in the world and Turkey, and you know that there's a struggle for feminism. In many parts of the world, women have had serious struggles to acquire property, to gain political rights. But as history was being made in our country, others, minorities, have been ignored, forgotten, preferred to be forgotten, as it has always been in many matters. For example, Halide Edip, whose predecessor, Zabel Yasayan, who had been in his letter, was ignored, while he was known by his nature, with respect. While dear Sabiha Sertel was rightly in a very important place in the history of feminism in this country, her contemporary Elbis Gesaratsyan did not even occur to them. Or Hayganush Mark, who fought for the women's right to choose and be elected and wrote the history of Feminism by Nezihe Muhiddin, which I respect, and in the same years, his counterpart, who had made a women's magazine without interruption for 14 years. On this occasion, I would like to introduce to you the Armenian feminist author, thinker, activists Elbis Gesaratsyan, Serbian Dusap, Zabel Asadur, Zabel Yasayan and Hayganush Mark, who are working in this land. I have here a book about these five precious women, whose name was a cry for justice. My dear fellow academics, Lerna Ektçioğlu and Melisa Bilal, wrote this book. The book was published by Aras Publishing. This book is not only a valuable source for the struggle of women in Armenian society, but also for women's rights in the Ottoman community. So I suggest you all read it. The book was small enough to say that I had no rights given in return when its name was crushed by the responsibilities of the woman of Hayganush Mark. I firmly believed that feminism was a cry for justice. Here, I want to tell you a little bit about these feminist women who are important thinkers, writers, activists of this land. Elbis Gesaratsyan was born in Istanbul in 1830. He published the first Armenian women's magazine, the guitar. In his writings, he resolved the reasons for the inequality between the sexes and said that for society to advance, the woman must be liberated. Serbuhi Dusap was born in Istanbul in 1841. In his novels, he expressed innovative ideas about marriage and family and the pressures on women. He received intense reactions because he damaged the traditional family institution with his work, but he never gave up on it. Zabel Asadur was born in Istanbul in 1873. He became one of the most important authors, poets and activists of his time. He defended organized solidarity between women. When she was 17 years old, she tried to train girls in the country, teach, write textbooks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have one more moment on the occasion of Women's Day?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0145par0235	Well, finish it in a minute, please.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0144par0236	Thank you. Zabel Yasayan was born in Istanbul in 1878. In his stories, novels, and articles, he expressed social injustice between the sexes. He was assigned by the patriarchate of the period to investigate events that began in the Adana Cilicia region in 1909. He witnessed one of the darkest periods of this land, expressed what he saw in his book "The Cities" and gave one of the first examples of testimony literature. In addition to taking advantage of the class category in resolving society, he took a unique place between his anti-war attitudes and the intellectuals of the era. Like other women, Hayganush Mark was born in Istanbul and published the "Hay Gin" magazine for 14 years. Yes, in the end, we all know that women can only seek their rights in democratic and pluralistic systems. Therefore, the struggle for women's rights is also a struggle for democratisation. I believe that on April 16th, all women who have been discriminated against for their cover, their miniskirt, their religion, their ethnic identity, their language, their murder, their humiliation, their struggle for equal citizenship will be crowned with democracy in the polls. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I finish, I celebrate all working women's March 8th World Laboring Women's Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0146par0244	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0147par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0146par0246	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. You're in the system, I promise you for a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0147par0250	Mr. President, I want to thank Mr. Godkulu for his sensitivity to Selina. The issue of equality of social gender is an important topic of modernized world history. The direction that history flows around the world is the equality of social gender. As Turkey becomes modern, it makes legal, political, cultural arrangements in this direction as it becomes urban. We, the AK PARTY, have made a lot of arrangements with the other parties to negotiate, from the Constitution to the law, to the criminal law. The Istanbul Convention is one of the contracts signed in this framework. And from now on, we will continue to work in that direction. In fact, I find it necessary to remind Mr. Godkulu of the fact that we do business together from time to time.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0148par0253	It's never been done, ever. According to the Civil Charter, it was never done.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0147par0254	However, we will not agree with the concern that there may be a problem with the penal code system. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0149par0256	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0150par0261	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0149par0262	Please, Mr. Godkulu, for the record.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0150par0263	For the record... Sir, I've been taking promises here every week following the agenda regarding the 37th article, and so have my friends. We're making a motion on Turkey's agenda without political concern. There is not a single one about the last 24th and the 25th term, and the majority of the Justice and Development Party in the 26th century, which the majority of them have said yes. That's why I used the word "nothing," never.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0151par0265	We took Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0150par0266	Just for the record.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit02spe0152par0267	It's on the record. Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions or other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. In the first place, we will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the Intergovernmental Grain Group 31nd Session, and the Intergovernmental Rice Group 42nd Session, in accordance with the Agreement Agreement Compromise and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 182 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 38th District of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the United States and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States and the United States and the United States of Turkey and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the MADDE 1- (1) The signing of the Treaty between the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization was approved through the signing of the Intergovernmental Grain Group 31nd Session and the Joint Meeting of the Intergovernmental Rice Group 42 in İstanbul on 14 May 17 May 2007. The first word on the 1st article belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Depboy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0153par0019	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party of Action to discuss the Bill of Law 182. Before I begin, I salute the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. The contract we're talking about is about agriculture, and I'd like to have a word with you about food, agriculture and nutrition. Today, 6 billion people on earth, unfortunately 826 million, are facing hunger; 1.3 billion are facing poverty. More than 790 million of those living under the hunger line live in developing countries, and 36 million live in developed countries. Secret hunger poses a great danger in many parts of the world. The problem is not only lack of food; nearly 1.5 million people on earth lack safe drinking water. According to the World Health Organization, girls and women suffer more from gender discrimination in less developed countries than men. Segregation also impresses pregnant women, and of every six babies born in developing countries, one is thus opening their eyes to life with insufficient weight. According to the United Nations, about 6 million children die in one year due to malnutrition or starvation. According to the same report, each of the four children living in developing countries has an inadequate weight. This is just the beginning of the problem. Because a significant part of the surviving children are struggling with basic problems such as development disorder, lack of body and brain development due to poor nutrition. Every year, food is produced to feed all the world's population, but unfortunately, one third of these products are destroyed due to financial problems, technical limitations and the lack of food precautions. An important part of the food produced is waste due to unconscious consumption. Dear MPs, we are not the people who sleep comfortably in their beds when they are hungry. We are the people of our Prophet. In our faith, in our yeast, in our culture, there is no indifference, no insensitivity. Today, the Muslim people of Somalia, who have been facing hunger problems for a long time, are starving to death, beyond starvation. The Somali government declared a national disaster about a week ago. Unfortunately, Somali Prime Minister Hasan Ali Kayre has made a statement stating that 110 people have died of starvation in the past 48 hours and that the drought that struck a single region has affected millions of lives. The United Nations estimates that some 5 million people in Somalia need immediate help and warn of famine. According to reports made, we learn that agriculture has almost reached its point of extinction, that animals are affected by hunger and are dying. To save the lives of Somalis, the entire world must act. Despite its rich and fertile lands, its two major rivers and deltas poured into the ocean, hunger is not because of lack of resources, but because of the interference of civil war, statelessness, terrorism and colonial states from the 1990s. Somalia has vast underground resources, but with the civil war going on for 30 years, it's not clear who's running it, how it's run it. In fact, how a country without a desert country, with rich resources, has come to this situation, of course, calls for curiosity, and it also leads us to think. When we think about it, we need to assess the situation of our own country in order to guarantee our future. We share in our hearts the sufferings and sufferings of the Muslim people of Somalia, and hope that all world countries will act together in order to resolve it quickly. If we look at Turkey's situation, our course doesn't look very bright -- not as much as Somalia. In our once self-fed country, 20 per cent of the population did not reach enough food, while 8.5 per cent lived on the edge of starvation. Unfortunately, in our country, there is a way back in agricultural production as the world faces unfair distribution problems. Over the past three years, our agricultural production has declined by 4 per cent, which has reached 10 per cent in animal production. Given how important agriculture and food are and how strategic sectors are, we realize how important it is to have agriculture and natural resources. On the other hand, the use of faulty drugs and fertilizer, the seed containing genetically modified organisms, and the unregulated production and import of their products, the unacceptable contribution and the presence of remains in animal and plant products, threaten the safety of our food products. In these years, climate change is the most affected by the agricultural sector, when global warming has an intense impact on climate change. We need to do an immediate study of this, go to a plan. Clearly, food problems in a land without agricultural production will be the main problem. I want to talk about my own constituency, Aydın. Aydın is one of the most important centers of agricultural production in our country in terms of potential and product diversity. The oil from the mountains is a city with honey running through its plains. The description already sums up the power of our city in agriculture. Fruity and vegetableism are a very important place in the light. Almost half of the land that is arable to agriculture is reserved for the agriculture of fruits and vegetables. Two and a half million figs, 15 million olives, close to a million citrus trees, fruiting is far ahead. 110,000 tons of figs are produced a year, 110,000 tons of olives, 45,000 tons of grapes. In addition, many products, such as almonds, walnuts, chestnuts, cherries, apricots, and pistachios, are among the products produced by our Enlightenment. It grows about 25,000 tons of leeks per year, 25,000 tons of cabbage, 60,000 tons of eggplant, 120,000 tons of tomatoes, 60,000 tons of pepper and 40,000 tons of onions. Why am I counting these on you? Because it's a serious threat to our farms. The area that is divided into industrial plants is as wide as the area that is divided into fruits and vegetables in agriculture, which actually makes Aydın unique in the country. The plain of Söke is known as the cotton warehouse. In recent years, however, Aydın is also quickly moving away from traditional cotton because Turkey prefers importing cotton from America, Greece, rather than producing cotton. The port of Izmir, a once cotton export gate, is now the door to cotton imports. What is the current state of cotton research institutes where the seeds of quality native cotton species are produced by scientific research? I'm curious, we need to look into it. Because we also began to buy cotton seeds from Israel. It seems that in the future, farmers will be condemned to private seed companies that serve commercially instead of the government's root institutions, and that's what we understand from here. The products we import are not only cotton, we import groceries. When local production was not enough, we continued to import chickpeas, lentils, dry beans from Canada, Mexico, the United States, Ethiopia, and many other countries. We import wheat, too. So I looked at this data: in 2003, the imported wheat was paid $277 million, $624,000, and in 2014, it went up to $1 billion,545,853 grand. We also have a problem with a geothermal plant that's growing rapidly and not running properly. You need to investigate how these businesses, which you don't even need to receive the CED report for its establishment, have damaged their environment. To understand how important the control of these businesses is, you also have to look at how it affects agricultural products, water resources, and people around the plants. Unfortunately, the geothermal plants that were opened with uncontrollably planned and under control are damaging our ecological system. Our agricultural fields are very valuable. We have to protect our water supply. Of course, it's nice to discover a wealth, to get electricity from geothermal, but it's not right to cause a new source to cause so much damage to agriculture. I ask you to be sensitive about all of this, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0154par0039	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. The second word for groups on the 1st article is for the Peoples' Democratic Party Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0155par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by bowing to all of you. I want to get into this from a different point of view, which is, really, why has this Capitol been open for three weeks? I mean, as a group manager, I've been asking for a long time, and I've been looking for the answer to that question in our meetings with the Council of Counsellors: why has this Parliament been open for three weeks? What legislature is the legislature holding open to carry out? Now, of course, there will be a referendum on April 16th, and in this referendum, it stands in the open spot where all parties start a campaign through their own stances, perspectives. But there are international contracts that are sitting on shelves like this, that don't heal Sadra, that don't touch zülfüyar, where they're open, so let's spend some time with them. Because the president, governors, governors, trustees, is campaigning over the property, even though it's a constitutional violation that he has no right to. The Prime Minister is campaigning with all the resources of the state. In his mind, the House is being held open to keep the opposition here. How important it is is already revealed by the level of participation of the current ruling party. Let's say that when international contracts are drawn up, especially with all parties, if the country's international image is prepared in the context that can increase its social, cultural, political, commercial power, let's say that everyone can contribute to these short, medium, long-term contracts that can relax the community. But more than that, let's say that this country has experienced perhaps the greatest loss of image, the biggest image degeneration in international relations throughout the history of the republic. Now, you have a right or wrong attitude in international relations, diplomatic relations, an attitude, a point of view, but there is one thing that is as important to an international relationship as the error and accuracy of an attitude by a political government in its own name, and that is the primordial, consistent and stableness of its foreign policy. So I'm talking about something that doesn't exist in political power. Your attitude may be wrong, you may actually have a certain perspective on international relations, you may have a certain political imagination, you can look over a certain international doctrine, we respect that; it may be wrong, but it must be primitive. Principle, consistency, stability, is as important as they are, except for truth and error. But let's just say, to what do I say this? One day at a time, look, we can see that from week to week, from day to day, from hour to hour, the members of the same political power have changed their statement that they're rebutting each other. Now, I'm asking you: how many times has the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense and the Chief of Staff completed the Bab operation in the last month, and how many times? How many times did they repeat each other in terms of timing? Menbic, Rakka, every single one of them plays a tune about European Union relations. But if there is a consistent, principled foreign policy -- let alone the consistency of power within itself -- there may even be a consistency in the state reflex. Now, with movement from here, look: you go to Qatar, to the Gulf countries, where Iran and Russia are declared sinners, but you come from there, you go to Moscow, the Moscow-Sham-Tahran line is blessed, but don't look too much at the state of the Gulf countries behind this ISIS. Three days apart, we experience very clearly how the rulers of a state put themselves in a position far from dignity in the international community. Now, my dear friends, look: The last thing anyone will agree to is that no one wants freedom of speech, freedom of thought and freedom of speech, no one will accept freedom of politics and propaganda, and the development of a ban against referendum events in Germany, which are meant for the sake of a party, is that no one who's had a little bit of democracy, freedom, but it's something that you need to be able to stand up to in your own country in an effective manner to stand up against these injustices, these freedom restrictions. Now, on the one hand, representatives of a political party -- even if it's the president of a political party -- because it's going on behalf of its party, it can't run a referendum study on behalf of the government -- when the members of a party are not just being talked about there -- but in fact, they're being blocked in front of their speech -- you can't convince anyone that the 13 members of the Parliament's third largest party are under arrest, let alone run a referendum exercise, taking away the freedom of speech, taking away freedom of speech, taking away freedom of speech, the media media that we've started talking about in front of its speech, you can't convince anyone else that you can't shut down the mainstream media that we're running the same thing. That's why the whole European community is laughing at this country, not taking it seriously. The reason why it's not taken seriously is that first, as a structure that's been in power for fifteen years, go and apply it to your own country and come and tell me about it. You haven't given up the freedom to do politics, and beyond that, people have no right to live, the most basic constitutional right to live, the most basic human right; they have no right to look at the day with confidence, they have turned into a country of anxiety. Look, about this conflict with Germany, last week -- and let me tell you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister is here -- in a survey by the Metropol research company, I'll share the data of the question he asked the other day, Mr. Secretary, the day before yesterday. Metropolitan asks: Are you happy living in this country? Do you intend to live in another country outside of this country? About 29 percent of our citizens, almost one-third of them, say I do not want to live in this country. Look, I'm not saying this, and I'm not commenting on it; it's a survey. I'll tell you something more sad: a second question is being asked, especially to those who don't want to live in this country: "What country do you want to live in? What country do you want to live in?" Now, I'm talking about a country where we've discussed democracy, human rights, the use of rights and freedoms a lot; World War II's measurable practices are in our memory. One of the three citizens of this country wants to live in it, not live in its own country. Now, isn't there any part of a government that's been running this country for fifteen years that its own citizens have weakened their sense of belonging and ownership of this country? I'm so curious. So, the opposition parties have a share in shaping such a social perception, and because they're in the wrong opposition, they've caused our citizens to slip into this place, and there's no blame on those who've ruled this country for 15 years? It takes a little consistency, politics. I've been saying for 40 days, from the day the Constitutional package passes through Parliament, to this day, I'm telling you again, everyone should be a defender of the positive legitimacy of their own package and their defenses. So far, the political power has failed to give this country the moment to share 18 articles with our society and make it a means of propaganda, because there is nothing to defend. Social, political, cultural, legal, commercial, economically, there's nothing in this package that can cure 80 million people. What happens when you don't? Here is a language based on negative legitimacy, as described in political philosophy. Because these people say no, I say yes. Those who say no didn't bring this package and put it on the agenda of this country, we don't own it. We defend the benefits of every item of the package we prepare for this country to the full. Please, be content with your own package; please, we're the ones who edited a political language about what your own package will bring to this country and what it will take to this country. I'm saying this will be a more primitive, more consistent language. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0156par0056	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The third word for the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0157par0060	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment of the Dair Law Bill, where we are meeting, that the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement between the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization are eligible. I salute you all. As you know, international agreements have been under way for quite some time, and the Republican People's Party is doing its best to get these deals -- close to 200 -- to be enforced as soon as possible. Good luck with that. I'd like to make a few point on this occasion, my dear friends. One of the issues is -- I have a file on a young doctor, Asiye Meltem Advertıoğlu. This woman, an ear-to-mouth contractor, a young specialist, is a doctor at Aksaray State Hospital. Last month, around February 20th, police from the hospital come in, pick them up, take them to the police station, you're the ByLock. They're being held for a while, questionings are being held, by Lock. In the meantime, after questionings, they go to court. Something very interesting happens during interrogations. They're checking your phone, what is it? I've been researching whether he actually used by Lock or didn't use it, whether he knew about the organization or not; I don't have any evidence of the ByLock program, but there are interesting things in the report that the police wrote, my dear friends. It says: "From this phone, the news has been read, the news has been read, and Fuat Avni has been seen on social media." Dear friends, Mr. Bostanci, you've seen Fuat Avni, because he's been writing very exciting things, and I think there's no one from the Justice and Development Party that doesn't follow. Mr. Bostanci, my dear friends, this friend of ours has not been arrested, he has been released under probation, but this young expert friend of ours has been suspended from office under a decree of law. This is an example: there are dozens, hundreds, thousands of such examples. My dear friends, now you say, "Woe to the dried-up and the old-life burn." It doesn't happen. So think of one person... so, yes, on July 15th, Turkey had a very serious, bloody coup attempt. It's obvious who did the hit, it's obvious who did the bombing. As the President said, the non-profits didn't bomb the Assembly. We know about the bombers, and you raised them, brought them here. You know it and we know it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0158par0065	Exactly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0157par0066	Arrest, arrest, judge, convict those who are involved in this crime, aiding and abetting this crime, and no one says anything about it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0158par0067	Most of it's falling.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0157par0068	But these people -- they're coming to you, they're not just coming to me, they're coming to you -- would they be so comfortable with so many victims, my dear friends? Sir, there's been some mistakes. Is there watermelon going to be cucumbers in the car? These are people like you, who feel like us, feel like us, have kids, have mothers, have fathers, this doctor lady, 30 years old, has a future. How can you treat these people like this? So this team, this Mr. Secretary, I don't understand how you got here, how you got rid of your consciences. Why don't you take these people to court as soon as possible, and why don't you give these people the right to defend themselves, my dear friends? What kind of crisis of conscience is yours, wouldn't it be, my friends? So it's unjust execution, injustice, injustice, and sin, my dear friends. How could you do such a thing? So there really is no fear of God? No matter what happens if he hasn't reached us. How can you say, my dear friends? I'm sure, I've seen it many times: many bureaucrats, maybe politicians, maybe the minister, I don't know, burn people to keep him from getting involved because he's had affairs with these people in the past, everyone knows that. Why don't you do a procedure on the mayor of Istanbul? It's your men who write sheets in the papers.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0158par0069	Same with the husband.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0157par0070	Why was 300-500 million dollars transferred, and they're used there. He says, "Don't these allegations mean anything?" Did the Justice and Development Party take this young doctor from the hospital to the police station in the middle of the night? I'm going to say a few words about the Home Secretary who did this, and I'm going to say a few words about the Minister. We criticized the Minister himself here in the past few weeks; I didn't criticize him; a friend did. There was a lot of speculation in the social media in those days about Mardin, Nusaybin, there was a lot of speculation, there was a claim, and I said, "Mr. Minister, the fight against terrorism of the state and the state is most vulnerable; you need to explain what's going on there as a government, make a statement. He's going to Tripoli, and he's yelling at us at a meeting where he's opening his campaign, and he's bullying us, and he's threatening us, and you know what he's saying, my friends? Ask him, he says. Who is Kandil, is Kandil legitimate to you or is he a partner of the Home Secretary? I am a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, my dear friends, and as representative of the Turkish nation, I am doing politics here. Is it possible, my dear friends, that I would ask the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Turkey about a matter of right violations and not ask the Minister of Interior? Where does this person get the courage, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Noble, where does he get the courage? He targeted me; he went to Tripoli, and he declared me a terrorist supporter, and he pointed to me and a congressman of ours. If you have a heart, come to Rize. He said to me, "If you have a heart, do politics in Rize." People get embarrassed, bored, bored, friends. It's beyond political immorality. What kind of Minister is this? Home Secretary. Who's the Home Secretary? He is a minister responsible for the safety of all citizens, for the safety of all citizens, and, of course, for the safety of the MP. Without shyness, he makes me a target to make a 2 of yes; he can't show it, he can't afford it, nor can he have a caliber. But is this the right thing to do, my dear friends? He's questioning our civil rights defense. Tell the Minister, say hello, perhaps you'll tell him: While we're doing human rights, while we're paying the price for it, all of Turkey knows what we're doing, what we're not doing, what the nation knows, the friends in the Justice and Development Party know. Mr. Secretary will come and ask the friends in the Justice and Development Party, and ask Mr. Bostanci to ask what I've done in the past as a human rights advocate, Mr. Numan Survivor. But let me share a secret with you: Ask the taxi drivers in Istanbul what this Minister did when he was the mayor of Istanbul. One day they'll show up here and hit everyone in the face. My dear friends, you run a state; it's not that cruel, it's not that cruel. Yes, you have proposed a constitutional amendment; this is not a presidential system for us. Besides, we, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of the parliamentary democratic system, but there are democratic presidential systems in the world, there are examples; if you had brought this, we would have discussed it in a different way, we would have had a technical discussion. We argued with Turkey whether the parliamentary democratic system was appropriate or if a democratic presidential system was appropriate. But it's not the presidential system you brought in. We're going to talk to people about it. What's all the fuss about, fellas? The Party of Saadet also says no, and today the Party of the Great Unity has declared that it will say no, and CHP says no, and the PKK says no, and the PKK says no. What does it have to do with them, my dear friends?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0159par0074	APO says yes, yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0160par0075	Hezbollah says yes.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0159par0076	The PKK says yes, and the fetö says yes, and let them read the newspaper Zaman.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0161par0077	What logic, what cruelty, what injustice, my dear friends? How do you do politics, my dear friends? So, on April 17th, yes or no, won't we be in this country, my dear friends? Will you take us to the trenches and shoot us like your friend in Sinop? If my dear friends say no, what if they say yes? That's not gonna happen. We're all gonna live in this country. Then be merciful, friends, considering that we will all live in this country on April 17th. This isn't right, we're warning you, my dear friends, we're warning you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0162par0081	His name is his father, the name of the government's government system. Have them read the 1997 Time Journal.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0163par0082	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the individuals...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0164par0084	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0163par0085	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0164par0086	Mr. Bacheloroglu, in his speech, there is no injustice, no fear of God, no remorse.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0165par0087	Exactly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0164par0088	...and teased him with a number of judgments.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0166par0089	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. I'll give you two minutes, so please don't give me another tease.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0167par0092	Mr. Secretary, please respond. It was about the Home Secretary, where the government lives.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0095	Mr. President, dear friends, there are many things Mr. Bacheloglu is talking about, not enough for two minutes, but a doctor at the entrance told me about the incident, there are dozens, hundreds, thousands of examples. It's supposed to be called the art of excess.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0167par0096	He told the truth, why the exaggeration?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0169par0097	No, no, no, that's every day...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0098	The state has been fighting a highly dangerous, long-term advice that has shown itself legitimacy as a cover, infiltrated various institutions and ultimately attempted the July 15 coup.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0169par0099	Don't touch it. We don't say it, do it.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0100	This organization has infiltrated different parts of society, infiltrated its security, infiltrated its MIT, infiltrated its law, infiltrated many different parts.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0170par0101	AKP didn't give it to them.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0169par0103	It didn't just penetrate you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0105	It's not an easy struggle, it's not easy to fight a cell-type -- almost organized structure that connects with these secret organizations, dark methods. In order to carry out this challenge, the government is struggling with determination and earnestness to distinguish the dry from the age. There could still be mistakes. He also sets up mechanisms to keep control pathways open for these errors. Mr. Bachelor, this friend of yours can apply there, and if you really...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0169par0107	Where, two months, where's the commission?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0108	If there's a problem like he said, it'll be fixed.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0169par0109	Two months, where's the commission?
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0171par0110	You seized all his assets so he wouldn't oppose the AKP.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0168par0111	There are some examples here -- we're not a court -- that the state has turned against this terrorist organization, and I'm sure you shouldn't hurt the struggle you find positive, which you find legitimate. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0172par0114	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0173par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0172par0116	Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0173par0117	Mr. President accused me of hurting the war on terror. It's a tease, I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0174par0118	That's right.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0172par0119	Yes, Mr. Bachelor. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0175par0122	Mr. President, my dear friends, at the beginning of my speech, you will recall that we have no objection to what has been done in the fight against terrorism, Mr. President, over and over and over again, our spokesperson is prepared to give this support to the Republican People's Party, whatever it takes to fight this organization, and we don't say anything about this struggle. Find them, arrest them, bring them, we're not saying anything. Yes, there are hundreds, thousands of victims, Mr. Bostanci. At least they have claims of victimization. We don't know. I'm suggesting a way for all of this to come out. Why don't you take these people to court? They don't. You'll say, he doesn't prosecute, he doesn't prosecute. I don't know. Why don't these people go to court? Why aren't these people defending themselves? You said: "We are setting up a commission to extract the victims. " A decision has been made with the KHK. Where's the commission? This commission's gone. Look, how long has it been? It's been nearly two months, why isn't this commission set up, Mr. Bostanci? Look, we're not doing anything to hurt the fight against terrorism in any way. Here's what we're doing. Appreciate it, guys. If we don't do this, Turkey will cease to be a democratic country. We're the opposition party, and we're telling you that our support for fighting terrorism is infinite. But this fight is supposed to be in the law, people. From the moment we say it, you're writing us into terror. What kind of a thing is that, guys? Is that a thing? No, not like this. There's so much sacrifice in the world, and it's unfair, it's truly a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin. That's what I'm saying. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0176par0126	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0177par0127	And you're slandering the minister.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0176par0131	The first word on their behalf belongs to Mersin MP Aytüğ Atcı. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0178par0133	I'll pick you up in Rize, Osman.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0179par0134	Come, come to Rize. Why didn't you come? You should have come to Rize. Why didn't you come? They'll bury you in the chest. You be smart, come on.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0178par0135	Speak of the devil!
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0179par0136	And you know your place! Come on, watch out. You should have come to Rize. You're talking here when the minister's not here.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0180par0137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have invited Mr. Horseman to the stand, please... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0181par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a personal pledge on Bill 182. I salute lawmakers who do not approve of referendums in the process of the state of emergency, who believe that this practice is incompatible with political morality. Dear friends, I'd like to say that I'm going to vote positively on this bill we're talking about. On this occasion, I would like to share with you some of the information I received from some of my visits in Germany last week. Dear friends, last week I met with our people in Germany, in many cities, in various studies and research. Our citizens in Germany are really angry about our ministers not being spoken in Germany, and they don't think it's true, but they say, "Why should we say yes?" They tell us from Turkey. Yeah, well, it would be nice if they could talk here, but since we're having this kind of trouble, let them tell us right now why we should say yes to Turkey. They ask you some questions through me, they say, "If we say yes, the terror will end, if we say yes, the economy will be over, as long as the unemployment will be over, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Prime Minister, say, let's say we believe and vote.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0182par0143	They're such good liars!
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0181par0144	The important question is, even if we, the national will, say yes, why will this practice take place in two and a half years? For example, I'm sick, I went to the doctor, the doctor diagnosed me with a heart attack, he gave me my medicine, I'm going to take my medicine, the pharmacist says: "You're going to drink it in a minute, two and a half years." Why? My brother, I'm dying; I'm dying of terror, I'm dying of economics. Since my prescription, since my medicine is yes, I said yes as a national will, why does it come into effect two and a half years later, explain it to us? Then they say: "We have always defended the president's neutrality. Now the President will be president of a party, or he may be, and how will he be neutral? Let them also explain to us: How will one person budget the budget, the taxes collected from 80 million dollars? We don't understand how the parliament will use the budget even if it doesn't agree. Let them tell us that, please. Why don't they tell us about the inspection? We said yes, we elected the president, he elected the president of the national will, he surrendered the state. He'll be surprised at the fact that someone's trying to trick him. How's that auditing mechanism gonna work? For example, when the Justice and Development Party was at its strongest, they joined hands with the National Movement Party and found 339 people in the vote before this referendum; how we will find 400 deputies tomorrow and make an inspection of them.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0183par0147	Then there's 600 MPs.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0181par0148	Again in Germany they say, "Ya, we don't understand, the Supreme Court will be 15 people, and the President of a party will determine 12 of those 15 people. Yeah, somebody explain this to us. Let them explain to us how the leader of a party of the 13 members of the Judiciary Prosecutor's Council, which will be sent to the district, will be sent to the district, and will be elected by the national will, and will be elected by the national will. Well, this one's gonna get up, and he's gonna get rid of himself with 600 other people. Brother, I've chosen you, only I can rescind you. Tell me about it. How can one person disband 601 people? We didn't understand that either, let them tell us that. And this 18-year-old MP thing, we're so happy that maybe 18-year-old geniuses in Turkey will come and do something, but why don't you tell us why you're taking down this military service? We're dying to serve at the expense here, but we can't figure out why these young people are exempt from military service. We'll be glad if you tell us. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit03spe0184par0153	Thank you. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit04spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Talks on Bill 182 were completed in the previous session. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes that all of the open votes of other international agreements to be discussed in today's merger should be carried out by a separate electronic voting device: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-03-07sit05spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the open vote of the entire Law Bill of 182 rows, the meeting was not enough. I will now repeat the open vote. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 182: ▪ Number of votes used: 197 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will now begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia between the Republic of Macedonia and the Committee of Foreign Affairs for the Approvement of the Covenant Conspiracy of the Republic of Turkey, where the Representative of the Republic of Macedonia in the Republic of Kazakhstan is being taken advantage of by the Astana Embasssies of Turkey. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 146 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF THE REPUBLICITY OF THE TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY IN COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY IN THE UNIVERSE OF COMMUNITY MADDE 1- (1), signed on October 20, 2014, was eligible for ratification of the Court of Covenant between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Macedonia's Representative in the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the basis of the Astana Embassies of the Republic of Turkey. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are considered item one. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. We'll apply for your electronic votes in the vote of the entire bill. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 146 is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 198 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will now begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission's Reports on Technical, Scientific, Economic and Trade Co-operation between the United Republic of Tanzania, which are ranked in the 3rd place, and the Act of the Dair Law and Agriculture, Forest and Villages. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 171 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. AUDIENCE ACTIVITY OF THE UNIVERSE COMMUNITY OF TANZIA COMMUNITY WITH THE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPLICATION, BICS, ECONOMICS, AND TRANSITIONAL PROTECTION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Technical, Scientific, Economic and Commercial Co-operation of the Government of Tanzania between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Tanzania was approved on February 23, 2009. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. So we vote all of it, and I'll give you a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 171 in the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 204 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin with the State Commission Report (1/402) and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (1/402), which is ranked in the 4th place, and the State Commission Report (1/402), where the Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon is eligible for ratification of the Agreement. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 178 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH LUBAN REPUBLICITY CONTINUES OF CONTINUE CONTINUE FINDING CONTINUE MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 11 January 2010 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon to Co-operation in the Health Zone. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are considered item one. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. We're going to vote on all of it. I'll give you a minute. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 178 is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 204 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic government and the Foreign Commission Report (1/466), which is ranked in the 5th place. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 161 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't agree... Sustained. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPLICATION AND CUVEYT AGENCY ACTIVITY TO CONTROL AUDITION OF AUDIENCE MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 29 April 2013 in Ankara, with the approval of the bilateral Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Kuwait. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't... Matter accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the clear vote on Bill 161: ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report (1/521) and with the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the Enhancing of Labor. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 175 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH INDONESIA REPUBLICITY CONTINUES THE PRODUCTION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, which was signed in Ankara on June 29, 2010, was approved by The Covenant on the Development of Labor between the Republic of Indonesia. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the clear vote on Bill 175: ▪ Number of votes used: 209 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the 7th Bill of Law and Foreign Affairs Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 180 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As of March 24, 2008, the administration of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey was established by the North and the Republic of the North and the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States, and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, The government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey signed between the Turkish Republic and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on March 24, 2008, signed on August 22, 2014 in Nicosia, was eligible for the adoption of the Protocol Protocol on Some Articles of Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Government of Northern Cyprus. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Bill 180 is: ▪ Number of votes used: 209 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports on the International Convention on the Security and Environmental Reversion of Ships in the 8th ranking 2009. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been printed and distributed with the number of 197 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. HONG CONTINUES RETURNING THE EMERGENCY AND RETURNAL RETURN PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE MADDE 1- (1) On behalf of the Republic of Turkey on 26 August 2010, the approval of the Hong Kong International Convention on the Safe and Perceptive Return of Ships signed in London was appropriate. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 197 in open voting: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of the Fiscal Republic and with the Council of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Co-operation of the Fiscal Republic. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 204 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNICATION OF PRISON REPUBLICATION IN THE REPUBLICATION OF PRIVITY REFERENCE WITH THE REPLICATION OF MURCY REPLICATION AND PROTECTION OF COMPLICATION IN REPLICATION OF COMPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 6 April 2013 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Fiscal Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs between the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Co-operation. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 204 is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] So the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Ivory Coast of Turkey between the Government of Military Field Education, Technical and Scientific Union Framework Agreement. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The report has been printed and distributed with the number of 212 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Ivory Coast of Turkey between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Military Area of Education, Technical and Scientific Business Association Framework Agreement, which was signed on March 26, 2015 in Ankara. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 212 is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks on the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission report, which is ranked 11th in the Republic of Turkey, in accordance with the recognition of the Dialogue Partnership Status of the Shanghai Co-operation Organization. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 218 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. CONSIDERING THE CONTROL OF THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE CHURCHATION OF TURKEY REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was signed on 26 April 2013 in Almatı, and was approved of "Mutira in Recognising the Status of the Dialogue Partnership of the Shanghai Co-operation Organization in the Republic of Turkey." All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you one minute to vote on all of me. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Law Bill 218 in the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the withdrawal of Tourists from the Far Markets in the 12th place, with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission's report, which is appropriate for ratification of Covenant between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. The commission and the government are in place. Commission Report 219 has been suppressed and distributed with the number of rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICITY REPLICATION AND PROCESSION OF TUNIS COMPLICATION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 8, 2012, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[Checked with electronic device]] Bill 219 is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin the discussion of the World Tourism Organization Status, ranked 13th, and the State Department report, which says it is appropriate to ratify the Amendment of Article 38. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 220 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REQUIRE OF THE WORLD TURISM AUDIENCE TO THE DECISION OF THE 38TH MIDDLE OF THE WORLD'S UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) Approved the amendment of Article 38 of the World Tourism Organization Status, taken at the 17th General Assembly Meeting of the World Tourism Organization held in Colombia on 23-29 November 2007. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 220, open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked 14th in line with the Co-operation Convention for International Transport from the Highway. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 221 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. We need to meet with the EK PROTOC, which is related to the ELECTRONIC CONTROCTION OF THE CONTACT FOR THE COMPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSEMENTS OF THE UNIVERSE. ADADDE 1- (1) On May 27, 2008, we were eligible to participate in the further Protocol on Electronic Transport Documents of the Convention for Transaction International from the Road of Things. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote on the entire bill. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 221 in the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin the discussions of the International Convention on Compatibility of the Border Controls of Items in the 15th place, and of the Court's Charter and the Foreign Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 222 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE UNIVERSE OF CONTROL IN THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF CONTINUATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE UNIVERSES OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) Approved Article 9 of the International Convention on Compatibility of Border Controls of Things (I.C.E.) to Ease Border Transactions of Transnational Railway Freight. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Bill 222 is: ▪ Number of votes used : 219 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Council of Ministers and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked 16th in the Trans-Asian Railway Network, where the Intergovernmental Agreement has been approved. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 223 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. TRANS-ASS CONTINUES CONTINUES CONTINUES CONTINUE TO CONTINUE AGREATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved for the Republic of Turkey on November 10, 2006, with the withdrawal of the Trans-Asian Railway Network Intergovernmental Agreement. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Law Bill 223 in the open vote: [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Court's Bill of Law and Foreign Affairs Report, which is ranked 17th in line with the Ship's Collector's Rights and the International Convention on Ship's Mortgages. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 226 rows. I submit to the vote that the bill be passed on to its articles, those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. It's still a matter of law that we should agree to agree to meet with the nationals of the rights of the ship and its iPots. MADDE 1- (1) It was appropriate for us to join the International Convention on Shipmaid Rights and Ship's Mortgages signed in Geneva. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to the third article. I'll give them all a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 226: ▪ Number of votes used: 211 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Constitutional Bill of Law and Foreign Affairs Commission report, which is ranked 18th in line with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Greece, in accordance with Co-operation in the Maritime Area. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 116 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. The government of the Republic of Turkey and the rule of the Republic shall continue to establish the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the government. MADDE 1- (1) Approved to Co-operation in Maritime Area between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Greece signed in İstanbul on March 4, 2013. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote on the entire bill. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of Bill 116: ▪ Number of votes used : 221 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the 19th-place Turkish Republic government and the Government of the State of Turkey between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Court of Habibe Kadiri Girls Schools in the District of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Pakistan between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Council of Cultures in accordance with the Charter's Agreement on its establishment, its operations and its activities and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (March 8th 2017). I wish you good evening, closing the assembly at 00.
