tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to the Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, who wants to speak about the problems of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. After years of droughts, the largest snowfall of decades, on the one hand is the holiday joy of mercy and blessing, but on the other hand, there is a great deal of sadness over the accidents. Today, two of our students Burak Demirci and Ayşenur Okuş were killed and 42 of our students were injured because the bus carrying medical school students across the district terminal. After the initial treatments at Jahanbeyli State Hospital, 5 wounded were transferred to the hospitals in Konya. Four people were taken to the hospital yesterday because of the collapse of the roof of a marketplace in Akşehir district. First, I pray to our two children who have lost their lives, the grace of God, the patience and the condolences to their families. And to my brothers and sisters who are being treated at the hospital, I wish them a speedy recovery. Again, yesterday there was a cave-in on the roof of a marketplace in Seljuklu district. The carpet was the roof of the field in Bozır district the day before yesterday, and the roof of some factories and warehouses collapsed at Konsan Industries Site last week. The same danger lies in many places in central and boroughs. It's a mess all over the lconium, not even the main roads have been cleaned, snow, ice everywhere. How irresponsible is that? Is it so hard to clean up the snow there? Besides, it's not the wife's fault if the roofs aren't built solid. A roof shouldn't collapse in a snow like this. The government must take care of our wounded citizens and do what it has to do to heal them. The cause of the accidents and collapses must be thoroughly investigated, and those who do not take the necessary precautions and who have been neglected should be investigated immediately to be questioned for the account. Although meteorology warned from days ago, the government and the city of Iconia, in its time and in its time, failed to provide enough services, failed and helpless. With snowfalls, transportation has been forced out of the homes of my countrymen, since there has been no road opening and salting work or insufficient transportation. As a nationalist movement party, the law of the city is a failure to serve in Konya. We said that, as a matter of fact, it is. If the municipality of the city hadn't closed down, it would have opened its way in its own vehicles and reached the aid of a struggling citizen. Our warnings have not been heard. In the 2014 local elections, big words were also made to fool our people. By the end of 2016, the entire infrastructure of the province and its villages will be finished. The capital city can't even deliver enough services to the Konya headquarters. There have been power shortages in many parts of the Iconium, and it is still happening. The lconians have been suffering from blackouts for years. The power outages have made the industrialist, the farmer, the citizen very frustrated. Well, even the Prime Minister of Iconia has released it, but it's not solved. When it snowed, our Konya Airport was also disabled, and the flights were cancelled. We see a lot of cancellations anyway. Not only that, but the foreign campaigns, which are offered as good news to the Cononian, are being cancelled before it begins. The Minister of Transport said that the reservation was insufficient in response to my question. It happens in other cities, but why is it inadequate in the province? The lconian didn't believe that explanation. The Konya-Tahran campaigns, which will contribute significantly to the trade, industry, and tourism, must be initiated. Our request for a civil airport worthy of the lconium was not approved by the government. Mr. Prime Minister said to our faces, "Conya doesn't need an airport." Several days ago, it was announced that the construction of the Tokat, Yozgat and Karaman airports had been approved. It looks like we're going to be using the Karaman airport now. The lconians are going to explode one day. Despite his support, he'll have to pay for the failure and the failure of projects. But what do we do? This is no time for criticism. Until yesterday, the cognac was praying for rain and snow. Praise be to God, the Most High, who has answered prayers. God will help those who dwell in the land and protect our people from evil. Finally, I will speak of the request of my countrymen from Akşehir Lakeyer. We have two windows in the 350-digit Lakechart, but we don't have imams. They say, "Imams" and ask for imams as soon as possible. We don't have imams in many windows today, staffs are empty. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second word off the agenda belongs to İzmir MP Necip Tetovo, who wants to speak about our Turkish. Here you go, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, I promised to tell you what happened to Turkish, our Turkish, but yesterday around 1600 when we were here at the meeting, there was a shameful, treacherous incident in İzmir. Our Prime Minister has gone to İzmir, our Minister of Justice has gone, our Minister of Interior has gone. I made a promise in the speech, but I couldn't tell you in a minute, so I'm turning it around, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Sir, I'm also making this speech on behalf of the Izmir MPs, half of us on that side, half of us on guard here, and I want to express the feelings of the friends. I say this in particular: yesterday we had the final act of the inside and out traitors playing on Turkey. The scoundrels who meant for our nation's unity and unity, the undistributable integrity of our beloved homeland have now targeted our Izmir. Izmir is the city of unity, the realm, the strength, the tolerance. Izmir would never give in to traitors and their collaborators. At the beginning of our invasion war, it showed what kind of city it was by dumping the enemy into the sea. Izmir is the flag city of the Istiklal War. We will continue our fight against terror, our unity and unity, our determination to fight traitors. Yesterday we had two martyrs, one like Halisdemir the hero, Fethi Sekin. This is our friend, traffic cop, with only one pistol. The other terrorists have two Kalashnikovs or something, that rifle, eight grenades, eight rocket launchers. With all these weapons, there were two of them, one of them, a traffic cop; 10 of them, 12 of them, and he was a martyr. We, all Izmirites, ask for mercy from the Lord of Cenab. One of our friends, the bailiff, looked out the window and was killed by a bullet in the head. Yesterday, all our MPs, our Prime Minister, visited them. We ask God to grant them mercy, and we believe that these things will end, that's what we think of as MPs. We will never allow terror to threaten our nation, to intimidate our government and to attempt to polarize society. These treacherous attacks further strengthen the determination of our security forces, the unity and unity of our nation. Our nation must know that the Izmirians must know that whoever wants to divide this country, whoever wants to break up this nation's brotherhood will never succeed, because our nation does not give bonuses to those who break up our nation's brotherhood and unity. Of course, when we look at the weapons and ammunition seized by this vile PKK organization again, it seems to be a very, very big event. If they had been successful by accident, our beautiful Izmir would have suffered a great disaster. But, especially our police, especially our traffic cop, Fethi Sekin, has saved many of our innocent and civilian brothers from a great disaster by disregarding their lives. On this occasion, we thank our heroic police officers, our fellow police officers, who have neutralized both the martyrs and these scoundrels, the Izmir Police Department. This time, a great disaster has been avoided in the coordination of our police, of our gendarmes, before they have achieved their low purpose. What I'm saying is, let our citizens continue the course of normal life. If they don't, they'll be serving the interests of these terrorist organizations. And what they want is to slow life down, make fear, make people nervous. We don't allow that fear in any way. We say we're not afraid of them, we're going out on the street. What I'm saying is, as long as you guys are traitors, we're brothers. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll work harder for your stubbornness, we'll make more for your stubbornness, we'll share more for your stubbornness, we'll read more, we'll write more, we'll hope, we'll grow stubborn, we'll continue your stubbornness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Shield. Members of parliament, I ask Allah's mercy to the police officer Fethi Sekin, who died without hesitation in the terrorist attack in İzmir yesterday, and to the bailiff Musa Can (Moses) who was also a martyr. I curse terror once again, I condemn it. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Gülay Reservoyant, who wants to speak about the Constitutional amendment and the presidential system. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the High Council. First of all, I wish more patience for Turkey, who is tired of these explosions that happen every day now. Yesterday we ran into a hero cop and met a heroic bailiff. Fortunately, there are beautiful, beautiful people in our country, or the country cannot be ruled. Terrorists are coming all the way to the courthouse, but no security measures have been taken, no one knows, no work. So Turkey's unmanageable problem has been eased slightly through our heroes in Turkey. Again, I ask God's mercy on those who have died, and for those who have been wounded, an immediate cure. Dear friends, there's power all over the world, opposition only exists in democracies. Now our country is a beautiful country, and its geography is beautiful, its people are beautiful, its lifestyle is beautiful, we have won the War of Salvation, we have brought it to its knees with seven heifers, we have a glorious history. Why do you want to deal with the system that exists, which dates back to about a hundred and forty, one hundred and fifty years, from the legal system, from 1876? What's the point? Now I've thought about it a lot. You know, we were in the Constitutional Commission together for days. Are you deceived by another - the superior mind - as you are always saying? We haven't been able to heal the wounds of July 15th, we've been bombed together in this Veteran Assembly. Why are you bringing in this new constitutional amendment, which will lead to other and major crises before these problems are solved? Now, it can be talked about every single article, but I think this law text, this constitutional text, is definitely a political text, not a legal text. There will be a law adopted by the House, let's say -- everyone is a member here -- but the President has the authority to issue an official paper, if he doesn't want to. Then do you think there's any point in your being here? Why are you changing HSYK now? The Constitutions are the text of social reconciliation, you form a text with a member of the AKP, a member of the MP from the MPHP, and you give it to the public as a text of constitutional reconciliation. Do you think it's acceptable when it's said that lawmakers signed a text they didn't read? Well, we believe in this very much, and we don't think it's going to come through here, but even if it does, we believe our people will give you the answer you need. You may have received votes from our people on various issues in society engineering, human engineering, but our citizen will never say yes to slavery, he will never say yes to the dictatorship, he will never say yes to one man's regime. If we're going to take everything to the public, why didn't you ask the public about the 48 percent increase you made at the Bosporus Bridge, or why didn't you refer to the text of the deal at Osman Gazi? I've looked, I wonder if there's ever been a transition from the parliamentary system to what we call dictatorship, to what you call presidency. No. But I found three countries: Zimbabwe, Ghana, and Malavi. After the dictatorship took over the presidency. Now, something different has happened in Ghana...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0007par0055	We're not like them, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0006par0056	Yes, the dictatorship has arrived, sir, and you're trying to get him to come here. By your vote, you want to close the House, which you are a member of. Do you know what they did in Ghana? They've shut down all the opposition parties with 99% of the citizens' votes, and they've been declared illegal. Among the 113 nations in the rule of law, we are 99, behind countries like Tanzania and Zambia. Why can't we talk about science, science, technology? Why do we never talk about the future of our children? You silenced the opposition in the State of Emergency, the euro 3.84, our Prime Minister, who fabricates mania about the dollar, will probably invent a diversion about the euro. Now I want to say something. Let this be a call to you from a patriot, a mother, a woman's MP: Please listen to our citizen, please listen to our citizen you are trying to discipline with hunger; listen to unions, trade rooms; listen to women, children. You're talking about stability, prostitution in Turkey is 790 per cent, child abuse has increased by 434 per cent. We've never been on the side of dictatorship or coup, for that matter. What we say is very clear and clear, we say: neither coup nor dicta, full independent Turkey. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0009par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0009par0064	Mr. President, I never thought I'd want to speak according to 69, taunting an elegant lady like Mr. Responsor. But when I say we want to bring dictatorship, it's an open taunt. If you'll excuse me in that frame...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0008par0065	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0009par0069	Mr. President, dear friends, in order for a dictatorship to come to a country, social conditions, economic conditions, current political dynamics must be advocating dictatorship. For example, you always give examples of Germany. The cause of Naziism in Germany was the destruction and trauma after World War I, the demand of rising new classes in the coal and steel basins to ask for a share of the world colonial atlass brought forward a man like Hitler. If you say Fascism, Fascism, if a country wants to move into the Colonial system, if it wants to transfer capital from outside to its own country, it's to raise its country in a military order. This happened in Germany. Mussolini was having another dream. Turkey is an industrialised country with a national income of around $10,000, which has been on its way to democratic space for over sixty or so years.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0010par0070	Why are we giving this up?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0009par0071	The AK PARTY, the AK PARTY that you've pressed this charge, is a policy that has always come to this day based on democratic ground, freedom, the will of the people. The history of the EC PARTY rejects your claim. As for the Constitution, we will discuss the Constitution. There is absolutely no way in the Constitution to submit to the will of such a person, bringing dictatorship. This would be a way of discussing the Constitution in a more analytic way that needs to be discussed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0012par0076	Mr. President, if I may, by saying my name...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0011par0077	I can't hear what you're saying, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0013par0078	I said, "Graceful Lady."
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0014par0079	Mr. President, in his speech, he made a different comment, referring to our speaker's speech, referring to the meaning that he meant, which has changed the meaning of our speaker's speech; in that sense, we would like to speak to our speaker.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0011par0080	I think Mr. Backup was going to say that.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0014par0081	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0011par0082	But as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Bostanci and Mr. Backup are having a very civilized discussion.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0015par0083	Academically, yes.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0011par0084	Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0015par0087	Sir, I salute you all again with love. First of all, I'd like to say that in my speech, I didn't give an example of Germany, nor did I compare Hitler, nor anyone else to a dictator. What I'm saying is, there's no need to take it personally. We're talking about the form of governance that you're trying to produce here if you give it to anyone, give it to them, give it to them, give it to me, give it to someone else. We think that this form of governance will not be right, and that this life, which has lived in brotherhood for centuries, can cause new major fractures and distinctions in Turkey, and we think it is wrong. But I can give you an example of Stalin, if you'd like.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0016par0089	You can give it to the Chief of Eternity, there's a Chief of Eternity, you can give it to him from there.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0015par0090	We are proud of our eternal chief, proud of our history. If we didn't enter World War II today, it's because of the second Chief, and if you're sitting here today, it's because of Ataturk and his comrades. You'll pay attention to what you're saying, everyone will know what you're saying at this point, other than that. But I'll tell you this: we're against this mentality: we use democracy as a tool, we use democracy as a tool until we're done, democracy is a tram, we're going to get out of it. We're talking about a mentality, we're not talking about a person. You know the story of Stalin's chicken, Hajji, we're not comfortable with that idea of management. What did Stalin say? He said I would be in power to destroy injustice. What did he do? He broke up his own country. If you want Hitler, I'll give him justice too. He's come, he's put people down in his own country, and that's what's been going on for years now. Now, we want to return to the brotherhood and peace environment and make Turkey manageable. And for that, give up your presidential ambition as soon as possible. He'll come back from the people anyway, so don't occupy the House with these matters for nothing. Let's talk science, science, technology. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are habitats on Mars, let's talk about them. I thank you, I give you love.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you, Mr. Backup. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0017par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The extracurricular talk was over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding word. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0018par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. After July 15th, thousands of people were removed from office with the decree that they would never again be employed in public duties and public services. Although they do not yet have a final ruling, the blocking of thousands of people's work by the hands of the KHK will result in future irreparable victims. The immediate termination of the necessary investigations and investigations is vital for both our country and our innocent citizens if there are new persons including the unemployed army, which is a bleeding wound in our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0019par0011	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0020par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. After long studies on promotions for pensioners, the Prime Minister explained, but they set two conditions for this -- two bills to be paid to the bank. Our pensioners have a serious problem with this because there are people who live in rent, there are people who don't subscribe to themselves. That's why there are complaints. We're waiting for this matter to be resolved. And in Mersin, you know, we were faced with a flood of 95,000 per cent, and the TVs also showed it. The government has made many promises, and we will also do the necessary initiatives and helps here. It says that nothing has been done so far. We expect the government's sensitivity in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0021par0017	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0022par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. The 2017 exam manual, published by the Centre for Measurement and Placement, has made new arrangements for the test system and the test content. With the change made by the SNS, students were victimised with a system change, with less than five months left until the university entrance exams. While the students began to prepare according to the exam system of the previous year, the exam curriculum was set, while an unplanned change was again faced with confusion. The question in the manual has caused anxiety and anxiety for students, guardians and educators ahead of exams, such as points types, scores computing methods, for the first time open-ended questions. Dear lawmakers, our education system continues to be destroyed every year and a half during AKP rulings. In these ruling times, there is a weakness for governance in all areas, especially education, and it is undisputed.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0023par0022	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0024par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I condemn the terror of Izmir with violence and hatred. Our fallen police officer, Fethi Sekin, and our court staff, I ask for the grace of God to Moses Can. For our wounded citizens, for their immediate healing, for their relatives, for their condolences and for their patience. The journalist Ahmet Şık, who has been arrested on the grounds of his reports, is being executed in the prison of Silivri, free of all human conditions, without a trial. He hasn't even been given water in a week. We have an understanding trying to turn Silivri Prison into Kerbala. I ask the government: What do you want to do by not watering Ahmet Şık? Isn't that against human rights? Can the Minister of Health explain how much a person consumes daily water, and if it is not consumed, what damage will it cause in the human body? In the name of community solidarity, do you intend to make sure that the journalists, writers, politicians and intellectuals you arrested are tried without arrest?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0025par0029	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0026par0031	Mr. President, thank you. New bills are added to our people every day because of the Metropolitan City Law. In Balıkesir, the BASKI General Directorate sends constant watering bills to our rural neighborhoods. We started to get huge amounts of water bills from our manufacturers who pumped water from the creek by the edge of his property's garden with their own means. As in many districts of Balıkesir, our Agricultural Citizens are rioting in our district of Ivrindi. BASKI receives 45 lira per acre from the father to water the crops they plant on their ancestral land. They're not getting any service from the city, and it's not a job to pay for water from the water that's naturally there. They say he sees everything as a nail with a hammer in his hand. Let the city of Balıkesir stop seeing our citizens as a source of income.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0027par0035	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0028par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, I am thankful for our 79 million sainted nations, who have supported and did not come to provocations and support our security forces fighting against internal and external enemies who want to divide and destroy this paradise country. I congratulate all of our security forces, especially our police and soldiers, who are fighting against terrorist organizations whose names are different and whose last names are the same. I bless the martyrs, the police, and our civilians. Yesterday, our fallen policeman, who prevented the terrorist attempt in İzmir, honors and mercy of the hero Fethi Sekin, and wishes his family condolences and immediate healing for our wounded. ▪ Don't pass by saying "total" where you're stepping, know it! Think of the thousands of shroudless beds under it. You are the son of a martyr, so do not hurt him. This is the land of heaven, even if you take the worlds of giving. It says, "I salute the General Assembly."
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0029par0047	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0030par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about the direction the National Education Ministry has sent from districts to schools about the absence of New Year's celebrations. Doesn't the Ministry of National Education have anything else to do? What harm can it do for children to read poetry there, to buy each other gifts? The PISA results are obvious. There are children who don't understand what you're reading. There's an educational system entrusted to the foundations. Our children were burned to death in Adana, they were raped in Ensar, they were raped in Karaman, they were raped in Batman. Instead of caring for these children, why is the Ministry of National Education dealing with this kind of work instead of eliminating injustice in education, allowing our children to be educated in a system that fits the education system around the world? We're concerned, and we're inviting the Ministry of National Education to do their duty.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0031par0052	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0032par0054	I'm asking the Prime Minister: it's a fact that the National Intelligence Agency has been severely neglected because of the terrorist incidents that occur every day in our country. In addition, do you intend to dismiss the undersecretary of the MIT, Hakan Fidan, who was severely negligent in the July 15 coup attempt? Can you explain to me why you've kept me waiting so long? Recently, ISIS, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have committed criminal acts of terror everywhere and yesterday in İzmir, last week in İstanbul. Your government has been desperate to prevent these terrorist incidents. Even your violation of the Constitution and the law with the State of Emergency could not end terrorism. And with the presidential system you insist upon, you will not be able to prevent it. Is your government considering resigning for these reasons? Is your love for the presidency still going on? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0033par0057	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0034par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Izmir is one of the most painful cities in which our country is suffering from terror. No doubt, every martyr has his place, every martyr has his own heroic story, just like Omar Halisdemir, like Fethi Sekin. Fethi Sekin was heroically engaged with terrorists until his last shot yesterday, preventing a great massacre at the cost of his life, and he gave a very meaningful message to those who wanted to divide our country with his heroism. I pray for God's mercy, my condolences to his family, to the whole community and to our country. Another of our martyrs, the chairman of the Association of Izmir Tokats, is Cemal Can Τ's brother, Musa Can. And I wish God's mercy, his family, and his relatives. As I express that I can't go to İzmir because of my speech to the General Assembly, I also wish urgent healing for the injured who continue to be treated. It has to be known that this country, the republic, was not built so easily, that no one would be able to divide or tear it apart. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0035par0064	Mr. Çanrý...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0036par0066	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have targeted civilians directly after the attack in İstanbul's Centralköy Courthouse following the attack on 2017. I strongly condemn this inhuman terrorist attack. I pray to God for the mercy of our hero cop, Fethi Sekin, who died in the attack, that I be patient with his grieving family. We wish all of our wounded to be well soon. They're trying to destabilize our country, disrupt our people's peace, create chaos, with vicious attacks on civilians. The day is the nation's unity against all forms of terror. As long as we move with the spirit of the new door one and alive, we will never allow this kind of dirty game to pass. Terror is humanity's common problem because terror doesn't have religion, language, race, sex. That's why, of course, the terror that comes back and supports him, the attitude in the face of terror...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0035par0069	Mr. Baki Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0037par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, all over Turkey, electricity blackouts along with winter season have been a pain in the ass. Although we've brought it up over and over again, we're not dealing with blackouts. Currently, electricity has been cut in many villages and one district in Mersin. When our Minister arrived two weeks ago and held a meeting in Mersin, the EnERJlSA authorities indicated that there were 103 villages that the electricity was out and that it would be done immediately, but despite the time, the roads are still closed, there's no electricity, there's no water, there's no electricity, so the water is cut off. The citizen entered 2017 without electricity and without water, and the ordeal continues. We've built so many dams for the Minister of Energy to immediately come up with a solution to this problem. You say, "Where are these electricity?" You need to answer that to the Turkish nation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0038par0074	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0039par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Many casualties have occurred in the coastal border area, after Hatay Samandag was taken from the land and homes of the citizens who were living in Samandag. In particular, Hatay's victims, who live and live in Samandag, continue to occupy the public and remain unresolved. The world's longest and sand quality has to be the second-highest beach in the world to turn it into a tourist paradise and a business door for young people who have rotted abroad with what we call a chimneyless industry, but Hatay is under the injustice of a shoreline in Turkey, which has no other precedent. Lawlessly appointed by experts, and by the courts, the deeds of the citizens, including the families of the martyrs, have been revoked. Again, I'd like to reassign an expert expert on the subject and ask that the victim's victims who have been wrongly revoked be relieved of the deed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0040par0079	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0041par0081	Mr. President, respected lawmakers were appointed to the capital city of Tripoli during the AKP's rule. After becoming Metropolitan City City Hall, the city was handed over to a nightmare life of its own. It's been described in the city for a long time that there will be a avenue called Lawuni Boulevard, but there is no progress that can be taken seriously. Patients die in ambulances, women give birth in ambulances. The birthplaces of the children began to be written in the ambulance. It's become so terrifying that they can only see the Metropolitan City Hall with their hands reaching out to the water, electricity and gas bills and the city's pockets. I'm asking on behalf of Tripoli, if there's only one service that can be taken seriously about the AKP's power, and there's only one investment. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0042par0084	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0043par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. The expelled academics are still being expelled and a second commission has been set up for them, but since this commission is the same as the previous commission, without any changes, they wait for at least three-quarters of them to be expelled. What I want to ask the interested is, why aren't the rectors subject to study? How do we know that not all of these rectors are GERPs? Right now, the rectors are targeting people other than their own administrations, and they're really becoming victims. That's what I want to know. Another point is that in the last three months, especially in some provinces, there are public properties that have been handed over to the Ensar Foundation; I demand a list of these.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0044par0090	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0045par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. I also condemn yesterday's terrorist attack against Izmir with violence, with a curse. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs fighting against Turkey's war on terrorism. Mr. President, Balıkesir is the capital of agriculture and animalism, but today the farmer of Balıkesir, an important agricultural and livestock centre of Turkey, is dying. The Susurluk Sugar Factory struck the farmers, not only in the Silence region, but in Balıkesir. We ask the Minister of Science and Industry, the Director General of Sugar Factorys, to run a random study of the Susuruluk Sugar Factory to get the local farmer back on his feet, and to re-enact that economic giant by contracting with the local farmer. On behalf of Balıkesir, on behalf of the farmers, I invite the Minister of Science and Industry to serve.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0046par0095	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0047par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the painting that we learned yesterday during the parliamentary talks but did not become clearer because of the terrorist incident in İzmir, we ask for God's mercy on our dead brother and our court officer, once again, and for our wounded, we pray for immediate healing. In a survey, terrorism is at the top of Turkey's most important agenda. In this regard, it is inevitable that all political parties in Turkey, except for parliament, must make a joint effort to concentrate on terrorism and to remove terrorism from the country's agenda. In this picture, we, the Republican People's Party, call on the ruling party: we are prepared to support any formula, law, to prevent terrorism, as long as we do not limit basic rights and freedoms. Therefore, there is no point and purpose in dividing, polarizing society with a proposal for a constitutional amendment, which ignores the fact that terrorism is the most natural to discuss as a priority agenda. Therefore, the ruling party has a historical responsibility. The ruling party has to manage Turkey well, and it has to give it confidence, but the terrorist incidents that we've experienced have a profound shock to Turkey, but we also see that this has no impact at the ruling party, otherwise it's the regime they call the presidential. Now, the ruling party must carry out this historic responsibility, and Congress must meet with terror agendas, do its work, and take terror off the nation's agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0048par0104	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0049par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I condemn yesterday's traitorous attack on Izmir. Nihal says in a line without a horse: "Fethi Sekin is a true hero, I remember him with mercy. " Thanks to his attention, his heroism was prevented by his courage by a great massacre. He's a real hero, Fethi Sekin, who left three children without a father so other people's children wouldn't be left without a father. From now on, his children, his family, are in our nation's care. You have left behind a nation who admires you, who will salute you forever, Fethhi Sekin, give your blessing. Now, of course, on the other hand, is there any negligence in this case? I mean, I have serious doubts in my head. How many cops were in front of the courthouse in an environment where terrorism was so horny? Why does a cop have to fight there? Where are the other cops? Why isn't it safe? These questions are questions that need answers. I think this is a really big deal. It could have been a massive massacre. Fethi Sekin had been a blessing from God, his courage, his presence there... a successful cop, a brave cop, and a great disaster... but it could have been a great disaster, a great slaughter. Now, I would like to ask the Home Secretary, the Izmir Police, to give us a statement about this. It's probably not a precaution, that's what it sounds like. Like, why would these cops, why would the police, run out of bullets? I mean, in a situation like this, there's got to be some kind of obligation for the police to walk around with a lot more bullets than with two clips, and that kind of opportunity needs to be known to the cops. Another request from the government is that the name of this hero, this true hero, should be kept alive. Izmir Metropolitan City has made such a statement. It's beautiful.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0050par0112	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0049par0113	But I think the central government should find a way to keep the name of Fethi Sekin. I remember him with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. Another thing: Tomorrow is January 7th, the 95th anniversary of Osmaniye's deliverance from enemy occupation. And there, we honor and thank the martyrs, the veterans who fought heroically, and now the ones who have taken advantage of the afterlife, and congratulations on Osmaniye's 7 January Liberation Day. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0051par0116	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Lightning, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0052par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, our country is going through a rough patch, and we're constantly expressing it. However, it is clear that suspending democracy, law, human rights will not bring about normalisation as these difficult days pass. Once, the law is completely suspended. The actions of the trustees assigned to the trustees, while the process of appointing trustees is a problem, are mind-altering practices. It was expressed yesterday, but let's put it this way: in particular, the political power must have had a problem with art, culture, because it was announced by the trustee who was appointed to shut down the theatre by the 30 theatre artists of the City Theatre, which has served the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality for twenty-six years. Again, the trustee who was appointed to Çatak district of Van. Today, along with armored vehicles, military personnel and dozens of bodyguards, enters the municipality, removes municipal staff; there we find it difficult to understand what local government is imagining. Ahmet Şık, arrested a week ago, was able to meet with his lawyer and family for the first time yesterday. After a week of insisting on his lawyers, he gets a lawyer's opinion at the end of the first week. Imagine, in a country where there are prisoners whose lawyer opinion is banned, how do we know what the judiciary, what the law is all about? Also yesterday, Mr. Şık stated to both his wife and his lawyer in his interview: "I have not been given any television, any radio, any newspaper or any book until today, despite my request. "
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0053par0125	I'll turn on your mic, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0052par0126	Thank you. Now, the conclusion that we draw from this is that the state of one person's imprisonment is a precautionary measure, in a few ways it is a precautionary measure; either it is a strong measure due to suspicion of escape or evidence blackout. Now, Mr. Şık is a man who has not left this country, who has not left this country, who has resisted abandonment, who has no doubts about escape, and who has difficulty understanding that the rights that a prisoner should have were not recognised to Mr. Şık. We invite the Minister of Justice to explain this matter.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0053par0128	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0054par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0053par0130	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0054par0132	Mr. President, thank you. I condemn the terrorist attack on Izmir, I pray for God's mercy on our two martyrs and all our martyrs, and for healing the wounded, once again our nation's head. The issue of terrorism is to influence the whole social and political life, to make itself the only agenda, and, as in the case of the story, everyone should look at themselves as if they were a cobra and be completely preoccupied with it. Of course, we're going to fight terrorism, and there are elements for everyone that are both security and moral homework. Everyone, I say, will take over the security side of the business, and people will stand up to moral terror, planting the seeds of hatred and hostility that terror expects and hopes, will not come to the games of provoking the masses against each other, that's what the public will do. They will act in the direction of common destiny and the future, our destiny in common, and they will see it. Because terror wants to compensate itself for its weakness through the power of the people. Politics can't act as if it's bewitched just by looking at terror and the only agenda is terror. Turkey is a big country, has problems, has issues, talks about them. The constitutional amendment offer came not yesterday, but it's been discussed for thirty years. There's been a compromise today. The heart wanted a complete compromise. That didn't happen, two parties agreed, agreed on something specific, agreed on it. It came in a manner of code, it's being discussed, we're going to discuss it in a civilized way. In the end, if Congress approves, our nation will make the decision. A job that walks on a road like this, trusting people...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0055par0137	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0054par0139	...the MPs in the parliament, the MPs who represent the nation, must be judged by the common sense of this matter. So, I express my faith in the people's elected deputies and that if they finally -- if they go to them -- in the common sense of the nation, they will be judged, and I give them respect.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0055par0140	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the reasons for violence against women in Turkey, we respectfully submit the Constitution's requirements for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Turkish Parliamentary Charter. [[Ankara]] 2) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] 7) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] 15) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] The purpose of the Family Protection and Protection of Violence Against Women, which was adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 8, 2012, on March 20, 2012, is to organise the procedures and principles for the protection and prevention of measures to prevent violence against women, women who are in danger of violence, children, family members, and people who are victims of unilaterally persistent pursuit and violence against them. In 2012, 210 women were killed, according to the records. In our country, "it is against our decency to declare pregnancy by drumming." In 2013, 237 of our women died. On 1 August 2014, Turkey was among the countries signing the Istanbul Convention after three years of evaluation. This contract envisions co-operation, solidarity and constant control mechanisms with countries that sign the contract in the fight against violence against women. This contract contains the signatures of 12 countries. 295 women died in 2014, when this contract was signed. "The woman's only career should be motherhood. In 2015, 303 women died. A study covering the beginning of 2010 and 2015 found that women's perpetrators were mostly men close to them, and the perpetrators of 608 were husbands or ex-husbands, 161 perpetrators, boyfriends or ex-boyfriends, 213 perps perpetrators, men in the family -- father-in-law, brother-in-law, father-in-law, or relatives. Some of the reasons men offer to kill women are suspicions of deception, denial of the desire to reconcile, a woman's request for separation or divorce, honor or ritual. Although 12.4% of the women who were killed in this study have applied to an official institution for security purposes, women have experienced violence, harassment or threats. According to a study conducted in November 2015, one of the five women was killed on the street or in public. Today, a statement by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which should defend the rights of our women who have lost their lives despite their request for protection, states that there is no direct investigation into the causes of women's murders in Turkey. A parliamentary survey is seen to be needed for the reasons for the violence against women in Turkey to be investigated and to determine the measures needed to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the increasing problems of workers' deaths," we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. [[Ankara]] 2) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] 7) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] 15) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] Workers' deaths in Turkey have been increasing since 2002. One worker in six hours ends up dead. In the last two months of 2002, at least 146 workers, at least 811 workers in 2003, at least 1,096 workers in 2004, at least 1,0601 workers in 2005, at least 1,044 workers in 2006, at least 1,044 workers in 2007, at least 866 workers in 2008, at least 1.171 workers in 2009, at least 1.454 workers in 2010, at least 1.710 workers in 2012, at least 878 workers in 2012, at least 1.235 workers in 2013, at least 1.6 workers in 2014. At least 16,471 workers were killed in the 13-year AKP administration. At least 112 workers in December 2013, at least 127 workers in December 2014, and at least 137 workers in December 2015 were killed in business accidents. Based on the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and related institutions and Eurostat data, it is clear that Turkey is a Europe winner by far in business accidents and occupational disease mortality rates. The inadequacy and lack of experience of experts in the field are causing these deaths to increase, for occupational safety professionals who should be employed at workplaces to graduate with a hundred and eighty hours of training. The lack of experience of job safety experts who are often having trouble finding work and looking for a new space, brings many problems, such as lack of experience in the field. Nearly 2 million workplaces in Turkey are obliged to receive services related to occupational health and safety. These services, however, appear to be inadequate. It is among the public reports that the internships of occupational security experts are not operational and that they remain on paper. It is another problem for those who supervise these trainings to be inadequate. Finally, on January 17, 2016, 202 workers were taken to various hospitals in the region due to a gas leak in Şabanözı district of Şabanözı, Organised Industry district of Çankırı province. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary investigation is needed to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating problems related to increased labour deaths and inadequacies related to the lack of occupational safety experts. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we respectfully present the need for parliamentary examination of the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of our Constitution, in order to determine the issues of vocational high schools, students who have graduated from vocational schools, and people who have graduated from vocational schools. [[Ankara]] 2) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] 7) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] 15) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] The goal of vocational and technical upper secondary schools in our country is to provide the student with practical training in addition to theoretical education and to allow him to experience post-high school studies while he is still studying. Students in secondary school have to take the TEOG Exam and get a certain score for entering vocational and technical upper secondary schools. However, students who score well on this test often prefer schools that they consider better education, such as the science high school, the Anatolian high school. Most of the students who scored low at TEOG are forced to prefer vocational and technical high schools. Students face many problems in vocational and technical high schools where they are entitled to leave. Students are unable to register in schools that will carry them to their destinations. The family and the environment encourage students to win the science or Anatolian upper secondary schools as they are being directed. Students register at any vocational high school so they can't stay out in the open when they can't get into the schools they prefer. Other students with no goals also have to prefer the untested registering parts of vocational and technical schools. In vocational and technical upper secondary schools, curriculums should be based on the real business sector. When students see that they can be employed after graduation, it helps to integrate students into their studies and to make them ideal. If vocational upper secondary schools were physically qualified, they would have different opportunities to raise staff. For example, a student studying in Ankara Sincan will not have to go to OR-AN neighbourhood for an internship program. If there was enough guidance in secondary school, students would have chosen the part that they really wanted to be at that age, and if their vocational and technical high schools were physically adequate, we could practically complete his education in theory, and if he could co-operate with the real sector, his confidence in students' employment increases, and today the fate of students who failed at TEOG changes, instead of becoming a consumer society, we could turn into a production and information society. The result may be that if the 4+4+4 education system was fully implemented, the second level could highlight the individual skills of the students and provide the necessary guidance service and the results may change. All vocational upper secondary school students can go to higher education schools for their fields by applying for a degree by applying for an unsubstantiated pass. Even though vocational upper secondary school students are interested in their own fields, they are both disadvantaged by the coefficient difference and because of the programme content they saw in high school. In their technology schools, they are forced to pass because the secondary education they receive is inadequate. Even if there are personality tests that will contribute to field navigation, the task force is inadequate. In addition, guidance counselors in vocational and technical high schools are unable to provide guidance services that are their primary tasks from dealing with disciplinary procedures. - The number and capacity of vocational and technical high schools -Except for the public, the lack of professional and technical integration of the private sector to upper secondary schools. Teachers still on duty are unable to improve their qualifications in line with the changing century. -Double education in some vocational and technical upper secondary schools Compromise education, vocational courses, and the problems faced in the face-to-face education of an open vocational high school. -A student's lack of ideals, the concern of failure to achieve his goals, the fact that he doesn't like his profession. - Lack of business guidance, publicity and direction. -4+4+4 has been passed on to the system, but the student's skills in elementary school are unexplorable and there are no vocational secondary schools covering the secondary school part. For vocational studies that have been set up for business standards and qualifications, the schedules are not up to date and are not up to date. - Business and technical high schools have a low reputation in the eyes of students, parents, society. - Inadequacies in business ethics and professional ethics. - School-industrial cooperation and the fact that internship studies are not at the desired level. - It's because you're undergraduate in the curriculum. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary study of vocational high schools, vocational upper secondary schools, students, and individuals graduating from vocational upper secondary schools should be launched in Turkey for the purposes of investigating the existing issues of individuals who need to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday 6/1/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On January 4, 2017, the Council of Şanlıurfa MP Mr. İbrahim Ayhan and his friends suggested that the reasons for the blackouts in Şanlıurfa district of 3453 rows should be read in the same edition of the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly in order to find permanent solutions to these problems. The first speaker of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is İbrahim Ayhan, Şanlıurfa MP. Mr. Ayhan will speak in favor of the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0056par0342	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Today's motion is related to the power cuts that have been on the agenda for a long time. Our town of Şanlıurfa is in a long period of time, especially because of long-term blackouts. Social life is almost paralyzed. Although we've been making several motions on this issue for nearly two years, despite our meeting with the authorities, unfortunately, the problem has grown more and more exponentially, let alone solving it. Şanlıurfa Province, as you know, is Turkey's seventh largest province as a population. In addition to the Syrian war, the number of refugees coming to our province in particular has also led to an increase in populations, and the province of Şanlıurfa is now Turkey's 5th largest province. It is a city with nearly 2 million 500 ▪ and many problems within it, almost to the level of Metropolis. Another feature of our province, Şanlıurfa, is that Turkey's largest dam is within its borders, meaning Turkey's Ataturk Dam, where electricity production is the largest in Turkey. Thus, electricity production is also one of Turkey's major centers. If you look at the contradiction, it's also a big contradiction, a big paradox, that a place where the largest production of electricity is produced is a province in Turkey where the most electricity problems and shortages occur. In particular, electricity, as you know, has many uses in social life, social life. Electricity is used in many areas, from heat to light, from traffic to transportation, from education to health, from trade to industry. Problems in electricity, blackouts in electricity, as well as directly affecting those who live in these areas. For example, because of the electricity shortages in Urbana, the trade is not very comfortable, it confronts its customers in very negative environments, it has to use generators, its generators cause environmental pollution, noise. Traffic is a serious problem in Urbana. There's a lot going on in traffic along with the power outages. In particular, during the morning hours, students have difficulty going to school and arriving at school with services. In training, it's the same problem. So there's a statement from the Director of the National Education of Şanliurfa himself. In particular, winter warming is a serious problem. There are also major problems in education in Urbana, where you can use your lesson equipment. In other words, Urbana, as you know, is an agricultural city. In the summer, agriculture is being done with the pumping system. These power outages come to a point especially when farmers can't get their own crops out of the field from time to time and the crops dry in the field. This leads to a great loss of economics. On the other hand, there are serious health problems, especially because there are blackouts in winter. So it's not just counting. These power outages have blackened life as a whole, paralyzing life as a whole, and unfortunately we haven't been able to come up with a solution to all of this, a solution to the problems of our glorious citizens. The AKP MPs couldn't do it, so we couldn't do it, and we didn't get any results from our attempts. One hand is particularly protective of these private power companies, as if they're making a special effort to make sure that their victims don't get rid of them. Mr. Energy Minister says that there is no energy problem using such a arrogant, high-profile language, but we also know the reality that there is a serious energy problem when you add energy problems in the western part of Turkey in recent days, especially the energy problem in Urbana. So it is very easy to express that the Minister of Energy does not have a realistic energy policy. On December 29th, there was a power outage in Istanbul, Tekirdağ, İzmit, Sakarya, for days, and the reason for the blackout was still unaccounted for.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0057par0351	It's still going on.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0056par0352	Now, there's been a cyber attack. It's called sabotage, it's called sabotage. The main reason for this is because of the explanations made by experts, by the explanations made by the rooms, by the economy. You know, 40 per cent of the power plants in Turkey work with natural gas, and the main cause of the recent blackouts is natural gas shortage. There were blackouts because there was no natural gas intake, but this truth, this reality, is being presented to society in a different way, society is being deceived, society is being deceived. Thus, Turkey has a serious problem of not producing energy policy. The problem is that Turkey's general population is seriously disturbed, darkened, and people are being victimised. And we want this matter to be thoroughly investigated, and we want permanent solutions to this issue, and that's why we're actually doing this research proposal, and we're just asking for a research commission to be set up, because you can't come up with a solution. I believe that, again, in the numeral majority, that our motion to investigate would be rejected, but this is definitely not true. The concept of rejection, of being insensitive to these problems, must now be abandoned. Dear friends, another issue, as with electricity, is the blackout of political life in Urbana. A special policy for our party, especially since June 7th, has been implemented to avoid political sanctions. The liquidation operations for democratic politics throughout Turkey are being carried out more intensively in Urbana. The closest example is that 250 people were taken into custody on December 12th, including mayors, mayors, borough co-chairs, former-managers, irrelevant, irrelevant, and are still in custody. Peyderpey has been brought to trial, and nearly 70 have been arrested on the grounds of the very old party activities. From December 12th to today, these friends of ours have been held at the closed gym in Şanlıurfa. Adeta, this closed gym looks like a concentration camp. They are kept here under very bad conditions and from time to time physically tortured at the Urban Police Department. Even this is a major lawlessness, an application to block politics, to block politics. Political power wants to force us out of the political scene by using the state's judicial and law enforcement forces because it probably doesn't digest that we're the second party in Urbana, because it can't face the politics of Urbana by democratic means, which is never acceptable. These friends of ours are friends who do politics in a democratic way. Therefore, you may not like their opinion, you may not approve, you may be on the other side, but it is certainly not right for our friends to be troubled by the resources of the state. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0058par0357	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0059par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to present the views of the National Party for Action on a motion to determine measures aimed at resolving power cuts in the province of Şanlıurfa. I salute the grand jury. We discussed a similar motion the other day -- from friends of the Republican People's Party -- and I spoke on behalf of the group again. So it's an issue that's on the agenda, and the problem isn't solved. Maybe the problem that exists is a little more intense than the season and other reasons, but this has got to be resolved. We've done a lot of work on energy demand, production, supply, privatisation, cuts, researching solutions. We told the Minister that you provided resources with privatisation, but you didn't solve problems. We said, "You didn't act in accordance with the principles of privatisation." We said, "What was expected of privatisation was not met there." And since the problem hasn't been solved enough, we thought the investigation should be done, but enough explanations didn't come from the government, I'm afraid. The government doesn't take this seriously. No minister here is willing to express his opinion on the matter, neither here nor in charge, nor is he irresponsible. Now, we don't have enough lines here, we don't have enough air, we don't have enough air, we don't have enough production, we don't have enough transportation, we don't have to look for the reasons why we have to do this, we don't have enough security measures, we don't have enough terrorism, we don't have enough investments, we don't have to sit down. The CEO of the company who took this job here came to me a few years ago. They've got a problem, they need a source transfer. They say: "The bureaucrats misled us at the Privatisation Administration. " How did they deceive us? If you're applying to a company that's a 70-80 percent fugitive, there's no way you're going to complain about the bureaucrat there with a percentage up and down. Why not? There's the Privatisation Supreme Council, there's the Prime Minister, there's the relevant ministers, there's the signatures. Now, when you look at it that way, you've already done a bad job in your bidet. Now, there's a high number of missing fugitives; there are nine AKP deputies in Şanlıurfa. So the citizen is happy, and the AKP wants to please them. Can you think of it that way? There's no way we can treat a citizen like that, the AKP doesn't want the problem solved. You need to figure this out.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0060par0368	There's not one here. Look, we're talking about electricity in Şanliurfa, there isn't one here. There's no Jaffa, Urbana.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0059par0369	Well, Congressman, you're right, sometimes we have nazires here, sometimes -- what do we do -- we talk to each other, we joke, we joke, we get better understood when we talk, but this is a serious matter. There's also a huge problem with privatisation of natural gas. What should these be done? It needs to be looked at. I'm cutting off the electricity of the citizen there. You're telling the Urban citizen, you can't pay him, we're cutting him off. Okay, he doesn't pay you, but why doesn't the citizen pay you? If he's not paying for a laugh, he's exploiting it. If he doesn't have the strength to pay, if he doesn't have the strength, it's the AKP's fault. Why? Economic conditions aren't good. But this time you're going to say, we've got nine MPs, we've got something there.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0061par0372	And the Minister.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0059par0373	We've got to get this done. We need to figure out what to do with them. It's a real pain in the ass. No matter what you look at from traffic and so on, the problem with the motion goes on and on. Now, what was in the motion given by the CHP's friends? The heavy rain, the damage caused by the storm's electrical transmission, the break-in of the transmission line, the cyber attack that the factories couldn't get electricity from, it says. If an official comes out and says this, for God's sake, it's gonna be a relief, and it's not gonna come up every day. You come to the commission, you give me information, business goes away. We're looking at a serious newspaper, and every day the government's statements are here, and the electricity doesn't reach the west, it's in the tender. Right or wrong? I don't know, I need someone to answer me, this one. Other than that, an hour of power outage costs 18 million -- I talked to him the other day. He says something else: the problem isn't cold -- I think he means natural gas -- it's a lack of storage. Well, this should be discussed every day in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but let's bring this to the bride's commission -- where is the President of the Commission, just now -- let's discuss the Commission, and if there's anything we can do, we'll support it. The AKP already has the power to do so, and it has the power to do so here. Let's get this over with, and we'll back you up. But, every time, here, as if you were very good, you privatized, you think you solved the problem. However, it is necessary to explain how much it costs to be privatized, to whom, to those who use it, and what the cost is. Does this give our industrialist, our exporter, any chance of competing? There's a big problem here. Let's know how much money the distribution companies have paid, and I'm calling the Ministry. Let's see how much the banks, the top 10 banks -- I told you here last time -- have a look at the capital. What are the distribution companies doing when you invest so much capital in a profit margin of 23%? He's working on a profit margin. Where did they get a loan to buy them? From banks. What did they take? They took it for currency, they bought it for currency. He just came at you, he's gonna pay; he can't pay. There are other challenges: I think it's lower when you compare the production companies' capitals with the others. But the capital of production needs to be stronger. And you're locking down the banking system. You know, here we're going to give loans to the KKOBI. You're going to give them to the distribution. What happens when you distribute? There's nothing left for you to give to the other men. And the money you're giving this distribution, I wonder if it's possible to get the loans back. Bring this to the Commission, let's make a motion to investigate here. I signed it. I've completed the research motion. I'm asking the AKP's friends and the group managers, not to be critical, but if this is the most serious problem in the country, let's focus on this problem, let's make a master's plan. My father was a very good late financier. You've become a financier. Ask the nation once, don't ask them again. Every time this problem comes in a different way, it comes in front of us. We'll find 50 ways to criticize. Come on, let's do something constructive here, let's take a pledge from friends from the AKP. There are no representatives here. I quit my job, and I talked about it two or three days ago -- there's no more important place than here -- let's take this seriously, let's see what we can do about it. After that, do maintenance companies do maintenance repairs after privatisation? You got the workers out. I'm privatizing. So now you're trying to get the subcontractors back. There's big problems here in TPIC and so on, in TPAO, and they're reflected in us. You're trying to privatize people. Prices are down, now it's down, and there are companies that will write profit tomorrow when the prices go up. Once you put up with it, you don't push everything forward. What's in the Hinihace? There's something you need. You didn't privatize the carnivore, you needed it, now you're going to another organization. Have we been critical? No. Let's take a look at this one. I expect the AKP's friends to be sensitive about this, especially when it comes to warning the government, because it's not taken seriously. I thank you. I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit02spe0062par0387	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0062par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. The second speaker in favour of the proposal is Samuel MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy to our brothers, Fethi Sekin, who died yesterday in İzmir, and Musa Can, the court worker, who died, and I ask patience for their families, and I ask patience for our nation. Yes, as you all know, Turkey's most important problem is terrorism. What do we spend our days in this Parliament, not terrorism? We spend all our time, all our hours, all our time, handing over the powers of parliament to one man, and spending days on the commission, and maybe days here next week. In fact, what we need to do is, how are we going to solve this Parliament? We need to focus on it, find the common mind, and break the back of terror together, and free Turkey from this terror plague. See, now, political parties sometimes bring in research proposals; the HDP also brought in the electricity problem; the Republican People's Party Group submitted a motion a few days ago to investigate the electricity problem in Turkey. But we can't talk here, we can avoid talking for ten minutes, and how do we produce electricity, how do we distribute it, how do we deliver it? We can't talk about it here. That's all we need to talk about. When a country talks about the blackout in the 21st century, it means nothing has been done in this country, my friends. When housing is not heated because there is no electricity in a country, if people can't warm up, nothing has been done in this country. In one country, industry loses millions of dollars because of electricity, millions of dollars is impossible to talk about a lot of things. We're telling you, electricity... Our friends, who have brought the problems of Glory, want to be investigated. Is there an electricity problem in Turkey? No, 81 boroughs have electrical problems. Each of the 81 provinces has local properties. The electricity problem of the people living in Şanlıurfa is different, the electricity problem of the people living in Marseilles is different, the electricity problem of the people living in another city is different. What's wrong with us? We have a production problem with electricity. Again, in a moment, perhaps, my friend who will speak for the AKP Group will tell us where the electricity production in Turkey is coming from. Guys...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0064par0010	In the right way.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0011	That's right, and Mr. Secretary says that's right. Minister, I have a suggestion to you: I looked at it, and you look at it: Don't look at the ten years before that, when you look at the ten-year period before that, you'll see that more electricity has been produced and invested than Turkey needs. The state invested all of this, all of it made by the state, but in your administration, during the 14 years, Mr. Secretary, the state didn't invest one. For your information, 50 per cent of the electricity production of EUAS is down to 22 per cent in the 60 per cent, 70 per cent in the 60 per cent, 70 per cent in the electricity production of EUAS. Actually, it's no big deal. Now, it's a very technical issue, I won't go into too much detail, I won't go into the HES©s there, I won't go into the nuclear plant, it's very busy, but it has a lot of problems, a lot of transmission problems. Look what you've done: you've divided into 21 distribution companies, you've divided Turkey and our cities into these 21 distribution companies. So, did we succeed after the power distribution companies? After the privatisation of electricity distribution companies, after the privatisation of $15.5 billion, have the problems solved in Turkey? You didn't invest a dollar of $15.5 billion, you didn't invest a dollar of your money from 21 distribution companies. We call it the problem of distribution. When we look at the power distribution companies in Turkey -- we privatised the last electric area in 2013 -- we look at the number of failures and the number of malfunctions after 2011, and we see that there's a huge improvement in going back. When it was in the hands of the government, when it was a single institution, when it was single, without division, the number of malfunctions were less and the number of failures were shorter, but after the distribution of electricity went to private distribution companies, the number of malfunctions increased. Many examples can be given, but when you look at the number of malfunctions of the Tigris Distribution Corporation, where the Glory was found -- I want to compare them with the 2007 -- the number of malfunctions was 188,000, and the number of failures was up to 370,000 as of the end of 2015, and again, what was up from 132,82,000 minutes to 340,000 minutes? It's like that with all the power distribution companies, the number of failures has increased and their time has increased. So your privatisation didn't bring success, we can say that. There are problems with electrical distribution companies that have made a TEDAS app. People are having problems. If they can't get to them, let them get to us. TEDAS has set up a private line. We assumed that this particular line would reach us and the citizens, but unfortunately, the citizens can't, and neither can we. Mr. Secretary, do you know who this private VIP line is for? He set it up for AKP MPs, asked for two phone numbers from the MP. Do you know who he set it up for? The AKP set it up for the mayors, asked for two phone numbers. The AKP set it up for the county heads, asked for two phone numbers. He set up a VIP line for the AKP. We've also diagnosed this. I had an AKP MP call my friend, and he came out, and he said, "Hello, come in." I called, and my phone fell off after the phone was answered. We did this in front of your AKP MP friends. Unfortunately, you've also partyed institutions, and you've turned institutions into an institution of the AKP. It's not possible to expect success from such a practice, such an institution, naturally. I still want to look on the bright side, I have the statistics of the people looking for it, and I have who they are, but... do you know who's in the first three rows of lawmakers looking for it? Şanlıurfa MPs. I'm just telling you how important the electricity problem is in Şanlıurfa. Look, from 13/6/2016 to 19/10/2016, in the four-month period, which is the 1st-ranked MP in the VIP line for you, Shanliurfa MP -- I don't mean to say it, but perhaps it can be passed as the most hardworking MP to solve the electricity problem -- 32 times; in the 2nd row, another Sannliurfa MP called 25 times; in the third row, another Shanliurfa MP called again 25 times; in the third row, another Shanliurfa MP comes in 25 times. These are friends looking for that VIP line to solve the problem. That's the way it is in the glory room, my friends. Şanlıurfa is really troubled about electricity because a city with 1 million, 829,000 populations is third to last when you look at the revenue per million. They just said there are nine members of Şanlıurfa. Isn't this MP ever going to serve himself? There's an event called GAP, which I won't answer to. He said, "Ganliurfa can't use the watering of the GAP." There's a few investments, I know them. When I went on my trip to Sanlıurfa, Mardin... Now, we're talking about the missing fugitive: again, the distribution company, which is the most missing fugitive, is the distribution company, which also includes Sannliurfa. Look, in a missing fugitive, the world average is 15 percent, the European average is 6 per cent, and 8 per cent is the average of our regions, developed areas, but this distribution company has 76 per cent missing fugitives. It was 76 percent before you came to power, and 76 percent when you were in power, you couldn't make any improvement. We've always looked out west: "We don't have missing fugitives; we need these missing fugitives to be punished, why do we have to pay for them?" But on my trip there, I saw that people there use electric engines in water wells so they can farm more, and what does they do because they can't evaluate the height and production of electricity costs? He's got to use the power illegally.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0065par0020	There are no fugitives in Artvin, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0021	I mean, what was it? The government is officially encouraging people to steal. Why is he encouraging you? Because you can't cheapen electricity, you're selling the electricity you're costing seven cents to a citizen for 38 cents. Why does he do it?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0066par0022	Congressman, where do you live? Where do you live?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0023	What does a big dam like that GAP do because you can't bring water there, and that agricultural citizen can't use water? He has to draw water from the well with the pumps.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0066par0024	Where do you live? Where do you live, Congressman?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0025	How much do you know about that?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0066par0026	No, no, where do you live?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0027	Will you shut up, please?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0066par0028	No, I lived 11 years in Van. I lived in Van. I lived in the Van.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0029	Yeah, you're making fun of people's minds. How are you getting by?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0067par0030	Mr. Akar, there are no fugitives in Artvin.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0068par0031	Congressmans, please, sir, please. Mr. Akar speaking, please, listen.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0032	Shut up, for God's sake, if you believe in God, shut up.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0069par0033	Watch where you're going.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0034	Shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0069par0035	Watch where you're going.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0070par0036	Will you guys shut up?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0037	We're gonna talk about something for two minutes, we're gonna talk about something technical, and you're talking about everything.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0069par0038	Don't say it wrong, don't say it wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0063par0039	You talk more than I do.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0069par0040	Just so you don't get it wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0071par0041	Congressmans, sir, please, don't insult the court.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0072par0042	Mr. Haydar, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0073par0043	Mr. Haydar, you talk here.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0074par0044	You talk more than I do.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0075par0045	You're wrong, I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0074par0046	What am I saying wrong? What am I saying?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0075par0047	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0076par0048	Mr. Haydar...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0077par0049	Mr. Akar, address the General Assembly. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0078par0050	If you know anything, come talk to me here.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0079par0051	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0077par0052	Mr. Akar, you address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0080par0053	You guys go ahead, you guys go ahead.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0081par0054	See, that kind of people prevent you from solving the problem there.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0082par0055	Exactly.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0081par0056	And the minister comes out, and he says, "There's a cyber attack." You're making fun of the mind.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0083par0057	That's the way it is when you tell the truth.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0081par0058	I looked at the cyber-attack stuff, there's people on-line in the world, reports are being published. Turkey was not attacked by a cyber attack during the period of blackouts. You know what? 19 of our high-volume poles have been knocked down. Why did it tip over? He fell out of carelessness. Why did it tip over? He fell out of carelessness. Why did it tip over? Because of its many years, metal fell from its fatigue. Who's gonna do it, guys? Who? And when we say it, you say it wrong. He says it wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0083par0059	You're wrong, you're wrong...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0081par0060	Now, he's here to accuse her of something she doesn't know.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0083par0061	I'm not lying, look, I'm not specifically lying.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0081par0062	Why don't you fix me up and come over here, please? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take another minute.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0084par0065	You guys go ahead and talk. It's not like it's the first time that's ever happened in Congress.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0085par0066	Mr. Haydar, calm down.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0086par0067	Mr. Akar, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0087par0068	What did we say? Water wells, they need to be fixed. How do we do that? Yes, the water of the GAP is to be brought to the foot of Şanlıurfa, Mardin, and our agricultural citizens in that area as soon as possible. When did the GAP take place? You know, we're costing $1 billion the same length of road that's costing you all this way, that much to the tunnels, that's 92 million, and that's what we're going to save. So, if we had privatized distribution companies for $15.5 billion, with all the money we've been getting from there, with the money we've made, the missing fugitive rates in Şanliurfa would have gone down, and again, the times, the malfunctions could have been fixed. So we can't plan them, we can't plan them, and what you can't plan... the worst part is you just sold them; you sold our assets, our national values, and you're competing to close the current deficits and offer people a pink painting, but unfortunately... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've seen you exploit people to the bone. I give you all my love, my respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I beg you, come and correct my mistakes here.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0088par0074	I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0089par0075	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Members of parliament, with Mr. Kentaro Sonoura, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who is visiting our Parliament, the delegation with him has now arrived at our General Assembly. [[Applause]] I welcome them on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and send our regards to our Japanese friends.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0090par0082	Mr. President, I'd like word on 60.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0089par0083	Mr. Erdogan, I believe you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0090par0087	I don't want to say that you lied to our deputy. That would be rude.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0091par0088	You already told me.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0090par0089	You said it wrong. I mean, I wanted to ask you how long you lived in that area. Which I did as a taunt of this House, in case it was tolerated. I have lived in that area for 11 years in Van, and I know what electricity, power outage, and lack of electricity are like there, and I know what it's like there. I'd like to say that I don't appreciate the rudeness of our deputy. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0092par0092	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0092par0094	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0095	Mr. President asked me how long I lived in the area, and I'd like to answer that. Second of all, I don't want to tell you this, but... (CHP said rude.)...it didn't fit in a lady's mouth, she accused us of being rude.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0092par0096	Here you are, Mr. Akar. Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0100	Thank you. Mr. President, we're not all members of our districts, we're all Turkish MPs. We need to know that.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0094par0102	Right, yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0103	Electricity is not only the problem of Şanlıurfa, it is the problem of all Turkey, and we must accept it as well. I'll sort it out fast, I'll have two minutes. Third: Look, I'm telling you the truth, 21 power distribution companies have been auctioned and privatized for $15.5 billion. After the privatisation, with your numbers, again, I said the number of failures and times of the institution increased. Again, after it's been privatized, after so much privatisation, you need to know that investments, investments made by private companies, are all reflected in the citizen's bill. You've done nothing, you've done everything in private, and the citizen pays every price for his service. So when you go into the store, the grocery store, it serves you with your money, it serves you as much as you want it, you can shop, people from the government have come to the point of shopping as much as their money, it has come to the point of using its electricity and its way and its water. For the fourth time, you said, "Cross," and I'm not saying that I never thought to be rude to a lady, but even though I warned you a few times, you didn't shut up.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0095par0107	Everybody saw it! Everyone saw what you did!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0108	Yes, he did. And you usually do that, and you sit there or somewhere else, and you talk all the time after the speaker starts talking.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0096par0110	Don't you, Mr. Akar?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0111	Anyone who has anything to say needs to come in here and talk.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0097par0112	We're learning from you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0113	If there is, if I'm saying it wrong, you can fix it, convince me, there's nothing wrong with it, but you're not convinced. You know why you're not convinced? Because you've been indexed somewhere, channeled somewhere, channeled all your thoughts...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0098par0115	Please, please...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0116	...because you're acting according to instructions from there, no matter who's talking here, no matter who's telling the truth here, no matter who's giving the statistics here, even if we give you the data the state's institutions have published, you're still against it.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0099par0117	But there's always teasing. Why would you...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0093par0118	There's no production in this country, there's no improvement in this country, and as long as you don't change your mind, as long as you entrust this brain to one person, it's not going to happen, it's going to happen, it's going to give all of you respect and love.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0100par0119	Congressman, you take care of yourself. Thank you, thank you!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0099par0120	It happens all the time, it's not the first time!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0101par0121	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0102par0123	I reject Haydar Bey's criticism. And the witness thereof is our people.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0101par0124	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0103par0131	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. I hereby salute your delegation. Yes, recently -- the group proposal, though, is related to Urbana, but -- in particular, the electricity blackouts in the Istanbul area just came up. Of course, the seven main lines, the seven main lines that feed the main vertebrae, along with perhaps the first time in history, are malfunctioning, as well as these natural defects, in fact later studies have resulted in some work on the prosecution's leg, as well as the fact that underground cables have been cut at three separate points and similar attempts have been created. Thus, at the moment, the four main lines are on their feet, as well as providing electricity, but at the point where the comfort of this will increase. On the other hand, it's not possible to say that these attacks were not cyber attacks, but there were no blackouts as a result of cyber attacks, and I'd like to stress that in particular, but I'd like to make it very clear that we've been subjected to these attacks. We've been paying very serious money for electricity imports over the last ten years. So the money we're paying is actually one of the most important points we have to think about in the coming process, given that energy is indispensable in parallel to Turkey's development, Turkey's growth. At the missing fugitive point, we also face a proportion of 25 per cent in Turkey over the past 13 years to 15 per cent in Turkey. Of course, that's not the scope of the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. Here, as you know, there are very high rates at the missing fugitive point. Infrastructure investments have been fulfilled to the extent required by the current subscription, but the use of the missing and the fugitive at a high level is causing a violent increase in the electricity used. I mean, normally, a temperature or other needs that can be managed by 10 units of energy, because of lost electricity, which is wild use, can lead up to 15-20 units. Thus, there are also serious failures and electrical blackouts caused by these malfunctions, as well as the power failures caused by the power surges, which cannot be controlled, which cannot be crossed by any kind of counter. Of course, the solution would be the download of the missing fugitive, the legalization of the counters, and thus providing the supply of controlled electricity. Of course, at the moment, the loss of missing electricity rates in nearly all East and Southeast Asia Minor is happening along with a manageable growth, along with these clever counters mentioned. We can see together that this will continue in the future. On the other hand, investment processes related to electrical infrastructure have a history of thirty-forty years. Thus, there are also some challenges caused by the growth and the overload, as we have a power that exceeds 73,000 megawatts. So we need to increase the amount of investment. It's not like we're not investing at all, it's definitely serious investments. If energy consumption has tripled over the past 13 years, it's not possible to happen without investing. But let it be in the Plan and Budget Commission last month that an 18-billion-dollar investment in electrical infrastructure will take place over the next five years, in the budget talks at the General Assembly, we have also heard from Mr. Energy Minister Berat Colonelrak. So the 18 billion-dollar investment in energy infrastructure over the next five years actually tells us that we can really overcome this problem. Of course, in 2023, we have a power goal of 110,000 megawatts. We are now over 73,000 megawatts. We aim for the production of electricity energy to come to 414 billion kilowatts. Until 2023, as you know, we aim to bring two nuclear power plants online. And there's still work going on for a third nuclear power plant, and the options for the location are down to 8-10 points, as far as I know. We expect this to be completed in the future. We know 414 nuclear power plants are on line in the world. There are over 100 nuclear power plants currently under construction. As you know, in France, 70 percent of the energy comes from nuclear plants. After an earthquake in Japan, nuclear power plants were disabled, but we'd like to rephrase the fact that they've been producing electricity in these facilities recently. We're spending a lot of money on energy, so we need to bring in the local energy. In that sense, the production of energy based on local linites and domestic coal production really has to be our priority. Besides, there is a serious acceleration in the process related to renewable energy investments. We're targeting 45,000 megawatts of renewable power by the end of 2019. In the process, the Ministry of Energy has taken some very serious steps that will clear the way for the sector and continue. Hopefully, we'll all get the results of this together. There are also statements made by Mr. Energy Minister in natural gas and electricity, you know, in 2017 there is no increase in gas and electricity prices. The main reason is that in 2009, a thousand cubic metres of natural gas is over $500, while we can now supply 1,000 cubic metres of natural gas within 200-300 dollars. Thus, electricity production from natural gas is important to our country for the use of natural gas itself. And I have to say once again that there will be no increase in electricity prices in 2017, and there will be no increase in natural gas. The diversification of our energy portfolio is important in that sense; as I mentioned, nuclear, coal, hydroelectric, renewable energy. And we're taking serious steps in the sense of diversification. As of Turkey's geopolitical position, we are also on a transition route at an energy point, which may actually be associated with recent political developments. Because in the coming decades, the steps of Turkey's energy have really opened the way for Turkey at the point that Europe, or the world energy market, is an important actor. The Shanghai Co-operation Organization is Turkey's term president as of 2017, on the other hand, taking serious steps in important projects at TANAP and Turkish Stream. It's a revolutionary decision that we're going to make this trade with countries that have our energy volume, the countries that we've bought energy from -- and the steps we've taken for our country -- with our national money, the energy trade we're going to do with these countries. Because the most money we're paying outside is money related to energy, and in that sense, with Turkish money in terms of exchange deficits, these costs are actually steps that can increase bilateral trade. So, while we're buying energy from one side, there's going to be a development that will also pave the way for us to sell our products to these countries via Turkish lira. Therefore, the fact that the energy trade is going to take place through national money, hopefully the very serious steps of our Energy Minister, Berat Albayrak Bey, will turn the situation to our advantage in the coming process. Energy is Turkey's indispensable, one of the most important tools for development and expansion, and I hope, with the 18 billion infrastructure investments in the coming process, we will be re-opened as the EC PARTI governments have dealt with the needs of Turkey in the best possible way over the past 14 years. I say we are against the group proposal, and I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0104par0146	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0105par0148	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0104par0149	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on 6/1/2017 Friday (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The parliamentary research proposal, which was submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 11/10/2016 by Parliament Speaker Lale Karabık to investigate illegal practices against university employees (799 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Friday's Friday's daily assembly and held in the same dated combination of its talks. I'll meet your demands on the Republican People's Party proposal. In favour of the proposal, the first statement belongs to the Lord of the House of Lale. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0106par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious Regents, education at universities is a country's window that opens and actually leads to the future. However, in our country, universities have unfortunately become a tool for politics, and politics is unfortunately involved in universities. Congressmans, the academic doesn't grow easily. We've been here for about a year and a half, and most of you know that I'm an academic, and I know that there are a lot of academics among you -- at every party. He's an academic. He's hard-core. You'll have two years of master's. At best, you'll be out of your doctorate in four years. Then, if you have a staff and you've been able to broadcast internationally, you'll be assistant professor. You cannot apply for a professorship without at least three years as assistant professor. You pass two heavy examinations on the professorship exam, which may sometimes take a few years. You can't apply for professorship without teaching at least five years in a university environment -- these, these numbers I'm talking about are the best odds -- and you'll end up a professor, you'll move on to academicism. Congressmans, I was a mother and an academic. I told you about the difficulties of being an academic. When I was a baby, I had to study and read. When my daughter started playing house, she thought the baby would swing like this, holding the book and waving the baby around. Because it's a way of life, counselors. Why did I tell you all this? Academics don't grow up easy. Academics are the future of this country. We raised students, we raised researchers, and we worked hard on it, we worked on the future of the country. Yeah, I'm getting to the point. On the 15th of July, after July 15th, there were unpleasant situations in universities. Prior to the presidential election, those who were not in that rector's group, who did not vote, who did not vote, who did not participate in the election were not given a position or were kept away. In fact, in most colleges, as you know from the press, the same person is both vice president and dean, director of the institute and principal of the university. Why, no one else? No, he's from our team, he's from the people around us. The time has come, which still exists, more than one congregation has collided in universities, as if it were a war of more than one congregation at the same university. My group, my staff, your man, his man, his man, his man, the training has always come to the end. Look, it's not short, and I have 27 years and six months of experience in a college environment. Members of parliament, while the situation continues, these political positions of the rectors, these communityist attitudes, came to the benefit of the government one day, and the OPEC, which had nothing to do with it, were sadly removed and left to the President's initiative. Is that the solution here? No, it's not. What was supposed to be done? First, we had to give up that logic, so the logic of getting politics into college and the post-election behavior of the rectors needed to be avoided. Did the presidents only deal with academics by not giving them a position or even giving them an appointment? No, they also brought office heads, who served in their own time, to other tasks, to lower levels. Unfortunately, they tried to get rid of their place by appointing them, without looking at the merits, and they couldn't find the people who were going to be on that mission. My university is one of these, and I gave the university to Mr. SEC President and to Mr. Minister in a large number of these examples in Turkey. It's the 15th of July. After July 15th, as everywhere, an operation began in these institutions. Congressmans, the more important it is to punish criminals, the more important it is to protect innocent people. In my opinion, one of the biggest mistakes made in this matter was that after July 15th, the president would be given the sole authority to operate in the universities. Look, not even the ECHR, the rectors were on initiative, all the decisions left to the chancellor's initiative, and we were told: "Give us a list of the suspects that they were suspected of as GERPs." The presidents started giving us a list. I'm telling you the testimony of the 14 rectors I interviewed: when they gave 30 or 35 names, they didn't have enough, it had to be more. When information came to them, they raised it to 90, 100. They named everyone from a distance -- maybe, maybe not. Some gave him the one who didn't vote for him, and some gave him the one who was really suspicious, but some of them said, "Let's increase the number, and then he'll protect the people. Let's not tell me." Then the reviews began, and none of them kept one, Congressmans, but the application at one university did not hold the other. Some have commissions, some have invited, some have asked, some have never called; some have been suspended, some have been expelled; some have been expelled directly; some know why, there is a Bank Asia account or a school or a bylock -- of course by Lock, okay, I'm not saying anything to him, but some have not even been able to say why or why it's not really his. I know there are criminals here, but I also know there are a lot of innocent people. What happened? A new commission has been established in some universities, which is the chancellor's initiative. Oh, and before I forget, when the rectors came to them -- if they had made an appointment and made a speech -- they said, "We don't know; it has nothing to do with us; it has nothing to do with us; it's from the YÖKK. But we know it's not from the YÖK. Because the names of the people who are signed by the rectors are leaving. What happened next? It's been stated that new commissions have been established in some universities, the same people took the files from here, put them this way. Look, if they've identified the real criminals, it's a very good thing, but if there are innocents in them, it's a real plague. The academics in this country don't grow easily, and now, the academics -- if they can -- are even thinking of escaping -- it's a shame. Congressmans, I've always said to Mr. Chief of Staff and to all concerned, how much do you trust the presidents? I mean, sometimes I look at it, that chancellor doesn't have a suspect in his own team, under his command, but he's always had one from previous times. Sometimes I look at it -- we came from that community -- that guarantee is that the person we call "the person" is sitting right there, but the others are gone, who we don't think they are. For that, I insisted, I said, "Put the presidents under a lens." And there's no way to say that there's a representative on every list that the rectors do or put on every list. There needs to be a review here. Those suspended after July 15th... and those suspended are still waiting, by the way, because the rectors can't really account for some things. And I'll tell you, before this operation begins, you, you, you, you retire, because I can't protect you. We know what you're told, and I can give you samples. Therefore, the establishment of this commission and the investigation of those who have been wronged and the study of how healthy the rectors have been doing these tasks, valued MPs. It's our responsibility, it's the plague. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0107par0178	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Burhanettin Uysal, Karabuk MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0108par0182	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Of course, before we begin my words, I would like to say once again that we strongly condemn the incident of terrorism that took place in İzmir yesterday. Especially our hero cop, our martyr cop, Fethi Sekin, and bailiff Musa Can, I ask for God's mercy on our brothers, and for those who are injured, I pray for immediate healing. Of course, our fellow academic MP who came out before me was raised under the circumstances of an academic... yes, I agree with all that my congressman friend said. An academic is growing up under very difficult conditions, his family, our government, they're investing a great deal in him. Both our family and our government work 40 years to raise a professor. Of course, taking this person out of the system after 40 years of hard work is a loss to both his family and our government, but let's not forget the July 15th incident. Here with you, when this building is being bombed, there's a problem if one day the enemy comes and attacks this country with the legal tax of this nation. The people we've handed over to are converting those weapons to the elected parliamentarians of this country's national will, to the President, and to the Turkish nation, which also owns those weapons. Of course, it wasn't the academics or teachers who did this in the first degree, but where will we place the righteous Orphan? We have friends inside of us who are medics. On the evening of July 15th, we put out this fire, we put it out, we cried out here, we held on to the national will. We put that fire out on the evening of July 15th, but who can guarantee that this fire will never happen again? There's a cancer incident, you make the diagnosis, you treat it, but after a while, it metastasizes. If you're a government, you have to take every precaution not to metastasize. The state system derailed on the evening of July 15th. If that train isn't moving on that track, then there's nothing that the opposition or the government can say about it. Come on, let's put this train on this track together, let this train start, then I'll take this train faster and safer, you'll drive it faster and safer. Let's go into the discussion. When the train is not running, there are mistakes, there are victims here, and there is a need to be prevented. Yes, the group proposal for the CHP has been decided in exactly as follows, after the July 15 incident has been explained: in this process you will not trust in the statistics of this state, especially in universities and public institutions, especially in the institutions of the Fetulist terrorist organization, which have nothing to do with its state or its duties. What do you say you're going to do with Haydar Bey? What are you saying you're going to do about it? While you're listening, you haven't had a chance to examine the rectors, the judges, the prosecutors, the defendants, the evidence, but you're listening to a one-sided, incoming citizen, and you're making your final decision here, and you're saying they're not guilty. Of course, if he's innocent, we're behind them. And to that end, decrees are being issued under the law, and we're fighting with our strength to get those who have been found guilty back into the state administration, the state administration, the people who were accidentally removed from the state wheel, back into the state wheel. Yes, education is our essential element. In particular, as the AK PARTI ruling, we boasted that we increased the number of universities that were 76 in 2002. When we say college, we don't just mean physical buildings. It is the academics, employees and students who will bring spirit to those buildings. We also know that there's no point in building those buildings without academics. But if these academics are the brother of this terrorist organization, if they're trying to lead generals inside a headquarters, let the state protect themselves, protect our future. This state protects the child you just raised on your feet, and you protect it, and we protect it. Yes, dear friends, this shouldn't be about terrorism. As long as we're talking about terrorism, even though the opposition won't accept it, we'll be taking advantage of your superior mind. They already want to dominate chaos and fear in this country. Let's talk about science, let's talk about colleges, let's talk about how to produce add-on products, how to grow our youth, let's talk about that together. But unfortunately, the upper mind leaves us with acts of terror today to carry out the incident he failed to carry out on the 15th of July. This is not just for our country, we are Muslims, we are in chaos for the Islamic community. I have a statistic, and I want to share it with you: the Jewish education period for one child is 13.4 years, the training period for one child by Christians is 9.3 years, the training period for the Buddhist children is 7.8 years, and the training period for the Muslim community is 5.6 years. If we don't get out of this ignorance, if we don't get to a certain stage in science, knowledge and education, we'll become puppets of more educated societies than we are. It shouldn't just be a goal of the ruling party, and I think that both opposition and power should contribute to it, as well as to the entire community. Precious MPs, of course, were first appointed officers in state-levels, not only in Turkey; for example, in Czechoslovakia in 1991, in Bulgaria in 1992, in 1993, in Albania in Hungary in 1994, in Poland in 1997, in Poland in 1999, after the merger of Romania and East-West Germany in Germany. Dear MPs, whether it's power or opposition, whoever's in charge, I say it's essential for our country's indivisible integrity to fight together for the removal of the state, along with all the elements of this organization. On the evening of the 15th of July, I salute your grand delegation with the hope that the unity and unity we showed will be permanent.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0109par0193	Thank you, Mr. Easy. In favour of the proposal, Ismail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0110par0195	Mr. President, there was a short explanation.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0111par0196	May I make a statement, sir?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0109par0197	After Mr. Aksu, I promise you, Mr. Karbük. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0112par0200	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the People's Republican Party Party Group on the recommendation given by the Republican People's Party. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. While waiting for the end of the days of nightmares in 2016, for the news of the martyrs to come no longer, for our country to be at peace, a terrorist attack on an amusement center in İstanbul on January 1st, followed by a vicious attack on the courthouse in İzmir yesterday. The traitorous attack in İzmir was prevented by the intervention of our hero cop Fethi Sekin, but Fethi Sekin and his court officer Musa Can were sadly martyred in the conflict. I pray to God for our martyrs, for the mercy of God, and for the healing of the wounded, and for our nation. I call upon the Lord God to bring an end to our suffering. Terrorism wants to refer to our existence, to our unity, and to the common values that hold us together, to break our brotherhood's law and to bring our country into a vortex of chaos. Along with the pain and threats to the future of society, terrorism also wreaks havoc on basic human rights values, democracy, and the principle of rule of law. Turkey is dealing with subcontractor terror organizations in a multi-regional way. Therefore, the struggle against the treachery we face can only be achieved by strengthening the law of unity and unity. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the July 15th traitorous coup attempt was committed to all political institutions, the foundation of the Turkish state, and the entire nation in the final analysis. Traitors of Turkey, who have been in charge of the Turkish Armed Forces and other institutions for years, have pointed a gun at the Turkish nation to set fire to Turkey, to the country and to the nation, and have committed a rare betrayal in Turkish history. Therefore, anyone involved in the July 15th attempt must answer, regardless of name, title, adjective, or position, and pay the price. What happened on the 15th of July has shown everyone that no political debate, country, and nation stand before and above the unity of unity and unity. Therefore, no one has the right to pretend that the 15th of July didn't happen, to ignore this outrageous attempt. Following these events, moves on Turkey's being left alone in the political area and on its economic challenge have also begun to follow one after another. As a result of these unusual developments, the Council of Ministers declared a state of emergency for 90 days in the entire country from July 21, 2016, after which the state of emergency was extended for 90 days after October 19, 2016, and then three more months after January 19, 2017, all three decisions were adopted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As it is known as the National Movement Party, we have supported all three decisions regarding the state of emergency to strengthen the state's hand until the end of the reckoning with the nation, when terror was wiped out. A total of 12 laws have been issued under the state of emergency. The measures needed to be taken under the scope of the fight against the decision-makers. There have been measures against the judiciary and the removal of members of the Turkish Armed Forces and other public employees from public duties as some educational and health institutions, student dorms, universities, foundations, associations and unions were closed. By decree of the law, 85,645 civil servants, including soldiers, judges, professors and civil servants, have been removed from office until now. Of course, the issue does not include the exclusions of public institutions outside the laws of the law. Those among the Turkish Armed Forces and public institutions who are involved in the coup attempt on July 15th, who have turned a blind eye or failed to comply with the responsibilities of their mission should be removed from state institutions, and there is no hesitation in that. However, these findings need to be based on an investigation and consolidated with investigation processes. Since there are not enough investigations and investigations, no one's reputation and dignity should be tampered with in vain. Objection mechanisms must be operated in a healthy manner and demands taken seriously. What happened in the end happened again. The idea should not be made public, the public support won during this process should not be lost, the faith in the state should not be damaged. Those who are unjustly or unjustly suspended or expelled must be put back before they become more victims. The leaders of July 15th, their foot in each section, including those in politics, members of the council of the peace in the dorm must be revealed immediately. Otherwise, the investigations and prosecutions carried out by restricting the right to defend, which will lead to the abuse and dilute of the CHP struggle, will make it impossible for the criminal to leave the innocent, will not reveal the truth, and will damage the fight against the terrorist organization. The National Movement Party is a follower of a political line that believes in the rule of law and advocates the unresolved principles of democracy and human rights. In this understanding, we consider justice to be carried out without delay and to be meticulously obeyed by the right to a fair trial as an essential requirement of law and state. I'd like to point out the problems and concerns our citizens face during the six-month emergency procedure. At the beginning of these concerns about the establishment of justice -- the limitation of freedom of rights, the dismissal of public officials without concrete findings, the disregard of their rights, the disregard of their rights based on false reports and complaints, the delay in correcting mistakes, while dealing with sublevel officials and politicians, and the fact that there is no action on the part of the State of Emergency, we can refer to them as the intentional victimization of the people who continue their duties as crypto, while there is no action on the part of the State of Emergency. Of course, none of us can ignore the following: We receive thousands of phone calls and messages from mothers, fathers, and wives each day. We can't assume that all of this is intentional and unintended. Military students, privates and privates, specialists and many lower-ranking soldiers were taken out that night, not knowing where they had gone and what they had served with orders to intervene in terrorism. Again, there are those who have been expelled from public institutions based on false reports and complaints based on suspicion. On the other hand, the state of law issued after the announcement of the state of emergency also shows that the decrees, which require ground-to-ground emergency announcements, also organise issues other than the issues that require a state of emergency. It is not understandable in this sense that all of the research workers taken under the SEC would be relieved of their duties without conducting an investigation. Now, all of these investigations have been conducted, the circumstances of the concerned have been clearly revealed, in which case, if there are innocents, their victims need to be relieved immediately, because their salary, their home, their car, and everything is being taken care of. If this has been done on the basis of a mistake, then what will later be said will not be able to make up for it. The state of emergency is certainly a constitutional institution that must be applied for when conditions require it. However, it is imperative that the practice be maintained, based on the law, in order to dominate the understanding of justice, and by establishing a just government that separates right and wrong from wrong, and the guilty from innocent, so that the question points of our citizens will be satisfied, and a total sense of struggle will be dominated. The National Movement Party will continue to criticize each development as it carefully supports its rights, law and justice for the benefit of the state and the nation. The attempt and after-terror attacks have caused destruction and injuries that would take time to compensate and repair our national unity and brotherhood. Of course, the main function of the state is to ensure the safety of those living under its roof and not allow anarchy. However, obedience to the rule of law and loyalty to the guidance of democracy are a matter that must be observed and taken care of at the moment. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0113par0216	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Mr. Karbüyük, I believe you have a commitment request. I'll turn on your mic, please.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0114par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. The deputy who just spoke from the ruling party has created a sense that we don't want criminals to be identified. Now, I've stated that this process has to be conducted correctly, and I've said that age should not be burned as well as it should be. I said it's important to protect the innocent, just as it is to punish the guilty. I've stated that the presidents were left on their initiative. You only listen to the rectors. I mean, we don't decide by listening to people, but you only listen to the rectors. Do you trust all the presidents in the process? Let's talk about science, and let's talk about add value products. Yes, let's talk about it, but unfortunately, Congressman, they're not spoken for by mixing politics with universities. So, are you on the right track? I'm just saying, start by saying that the real GERPs are still sitting in universities, starting with the rectors, and study this. We cannot allow you to create a sense of protection. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0115par0226	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Hasan Basri Kurt, Samsun MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0116par0233	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion for practices in universities following the July 15 coup attempt. I salute you all. Today, as in other institutions, there have been talks here about how and how people with connections who are involved with ا in our universities have been terminated, and there have been talks with you, opposition parties. These were determined to be very clear criteria. By keeping all communications channels open, I'd like to say that by keeping all communication channels open, our government is not just accusing someone in some way, but in a way, they're only allowed to do so. It's very clear. The implementations that have been carried out have thus far been clear to all objections, such as the appeals of the courts, political objections, or the objections of the press, each of which can be expressed in a clear way by putting matter into the context of matter. And I don't think anyone can say that this has been restricted to Turkey in any way. However, the CHP's group proposal has some final sentence sentences that have caught my attention. On the other hand, I don't think it's very healthy for the writing technique to have such firm provisions in a motion to set up a research commission. For example, the July 15 coup attempt continues, knowingly, that the opposition to the current political power has been suspended and suspended, and this is a final sentence of judgment... if there is such a thing, the courts of Turkey are present. It doesn't have to be the subject of any evidence, it's the subject of the necessary authorities, and in necessary ways, they get their own response, their own testimony. One of the challenges we face here in the process of legislature is these premeditations. We especially urge them to be treated with sensitivity and attention by the main opposition party. Because the process that we've done when it's really in place, yes, it's only when the day comes when it's just a conversation here, ten years later, 20 years later, it's the elements that go to the transcripts of the House, which go to an archive in the House, where they go to a memory. I think we should be sensitive about these things. I've been here before, on behalf of our AK PARTY group, Burhanettin Hodja expressed his views, I don't want to repeat them, I agree with his opinion, and I want to say that our group will vote against it. I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0117par0240	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0117par0242	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0243	The preacher told us about being sensitive...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0117par0244	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0245	The speaker, speaker, speaker of the ruling party, warned us about being sensitive. This is about the July 15 initiative and the following practices related to academics or other talks at the university. There may be a sense that the Republican People's Party is not being sensitive in the sense that this is a perception. So if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0117par0246	I don't see a problem with that, Mr. Akar. I mean, I don't see a problem with teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0247	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0119par0248	We're sensitive too, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0249	But it's like we're not sensitive...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0119par0250	We're all sensitive.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0120par0251	No, that's a very general sentence, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0252	But there might be a comment, because there are some...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0120par0253	Mr. Akar, it's a very general sentence.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0254	Let me tell you where I am.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0121par0255	Sir, we're all sensitive.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0120par0256	Here, I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0118par0259	Mr. President, the speaker's speech suggests that the Republican People's Party has not been sensitive to people who have been associated with that congregation since July 15th, or that our friends on the stand are not being sensitive about it, something like that. Yes, it is clear and clear that we are much more sensitive than the AKP. In other words, your motion for research has specific provisions. Yes, there are certain provisions because it's a reality. There are academics who have nothing to do with July 15th, who have nothing to do with it. Is there? I do. Even though it had nothing to do with it -- which is most of all at the Samelie University -- they were exported. What were they exported to? They were discharged by a declaration of peace. We also told the content of that peace declaration that we three MPs did not attend on the same day, and we shared it with the public, but an academic can't be banned, expelled, or expelled from the university because he signed a declaration or expressed his opinion. So an academic at the faculty of political knowledge won't reveal his opinion, but what will?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0120par0261	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Karbük, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0122par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker stated that the motion was not observed with technical precision, and began with a sentence knownly. I'd like to say, Your Honor, that we're being sensitive about this. We expect the same sensitivity to be carried out correctly, to be carried out with justice. But I can only show you what's been suspended because he's a social democrat and because he's an Ataturker without any connection. In fact, this is what the term "opportunity" means. We would like you to conduct this process properly, with the right of mind, so that age doesn't burn with it. I wanted to express it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0123par0267	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Friday (now) 06/01/2017, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Law Proposal 447, which was distributed under pressure, was proposed to take the agenda to the second order of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" and to determine the order of other tasks according to this. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP in favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. As I begin my speech, I curse yesterday's wicked attack in İzmir. I pray for God's mercy upon our fallen brothers, and my condolences to his relatives, and to our wounded, that they be healed in haste. With our group proposal today, we propose that the proposal, which has been discussed intensively in the Commission, which has changed some of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, should be placed on the agenda in the second place. Hopefully, on Monday, we'll continue the Constitutional debates at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Constitutional talks will come from here, with the approval of the General Assembly, to our nation, and our nation, the owner of the royal trust, will decide on this issue. Good luck, God forbid, I salute the General Assembly again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Can. Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0294	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, as of Monday, we are faced with a new draft that the AKP and DP have long wanted to dress as partners in Turkey, where a new era was discussed in Turkey. Dear friends, when we look at the conditions of the country, we're going to discuss a system where what we're really trying to do is to index Turkey's will to one person, all the powers of one person; to govern, to live, to hold the judiciary in one division. So, while discussing this system, what has been done, including the way we've been prepared, including the way we've been presented to the Turkish community? By being overlooked, by preparing behind closed doors, unfortunately, what Turkey's society wants to do is to be overlooked and taken behind secret closed doors. Dear friends, we have to make it clear that this is not the right way to prepare and that there are no conditions for this discussion in Turkey today. Why the way he prepared it? As I just said, we're going through a process that's been prepared behind closed doors and abducted from society. Look, Monday, as this agenda begins, we say, let this debate be held in public, let the whole community watch the debates in front of the community, who wants what, who wants what, let the public discuss it in public, and let the community witness it, who wants what. However, the AKP Group wants to smuggle the majority out of society. We're discussing a change that's so important, that at a time when our country, some say, is fighting for national survival -- which is not ours, but the power, the president's -- we're making a collective change that would mean a regime change at a time like this. So, what's the political climate like when you do that? Look, 11 MPs are in prison, including co-chairs of a party. Unfortunately, our co-chairs, our members of the group, our lawmakers, are unable to participate in the legislative activity, which should be in the legislature, which should be at this time. And as long as this constitution is debated, they won't be able to participate because they're being held hostage. The AKP knows that if it can stop such a change, the Democratic Party of Peoples, Turkey's most dynamic power, will stop it. Because what we say is that Turkey has full democracy. We've been trying to express from time to time that the current system is also troubled and that what we need is a complete democracy. Dear friends, not only are our MPs hostage, see, more than 70 of our co-chairs are under arrest, again trustees have been appointed to our municipality; our party workers, those who have been willing to join our party, our new, former executives, unfortunately, are currently in custody, over 3,000 of our party workers, county co-chairs, mayors have been arrested. What's the motive? The reason is to make HDP unable to work, unable to work while heading towards a constitutional amendment in such a chaotic environment. We know that they staged the entire Constitutional Amendment on us; that the political genocide operations against us started after June 7th, in fact, because of this ongoing regime change that we're going to discuss starting Monday. There's been a singular, assimilationist, racist approach, hegemonic perspective in this country for a hundred years; there's a paradigm. The People's Democratic Party has expressed that against this paradigm, a life style based on pluralism and governance is not a cause of conflict in all Turkey, but the need for a full democracy that all Turkey's differences recognizes as a whole, not the colors, cultures, beliefs, ethnic groups, each other as they are. So, this paradigm, when it came to public support, when the People's Democratic Party crossed the threshold and voted more than 13 per cent on June 7th, the AKP lost its one-man dictatorship, not even power on its own. Now, those who saw it, those who saw that the paradigm was accepted by the public, those who saw in a peaceful environment that the people would give us our rights and show us their gratitude, unfortunately, they started a war in this country. There were city destructions in Cizre, Şırnak, Sur. People were burned alive in the basements. Our number of counties, 81, has now been reduced to 80. All this destruction was to start the process of trying to hand over one man's dictatorship, the will of the whole country to one man. Now, we know that between 2013-2015, the effort to resolve this country's ancient problem, the Kurdish problem, unfortunately...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0125par0304	That's not a problem.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0305	There was no such problem, but what were you running between 2013 and 15?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0125par0306	You're the problem. Problem solved.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0307	In the current process, it was understood that in the environment of solutions, there would be a response to the pluralism and position of HDP's administration, and Turkey's society would adopt it. Those who immediately began the war and those who sought war, look in this country, they must have seen this process in 2014, and unfortunately, they planned to destroy it.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0126par0308	You're repeating the same thing.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0309	Look at these collapse plans, Cizre, Şırnak, Sur said 15,000 people were going to die before they even lived, said 10,000 people were going to get hurt, that between 300,000 and 500,000 people were going to be replaced...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0127par0310	Did the PKK tell you?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0311	...and plans to place three million Syrian refugees inside Turkey, especially an Arab belt between Rojava and the Kurds of Turkey. Now, while that's the case...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0127par0313	You're saying what's on your mind. You mean you did it in Kobani, in other places.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0314	If you listen to me, you will know my meaning. If these plans were made in this country, it was answered by chaos, by war, to live together with the peoples, to see each other's differences as richness.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0128par0316	There's no people, there's no people.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0317	Dear friends, the possibility of this Constitution being carried out under such conditions, that there is a possibility of going to a referendum in the circumstances of the state of emergency, in fact, would undermine the legitimacy of the Constitution, which we discussed. In fact, right now, look, let us actually run our election study, and we've been banned from making a press statement almost all over the country today, and we've been prevented from reacting to a reaction to the wrong, especially to the security policies that we live in today's foreign policy. That's what this is all about, and now we're going to miss this change from Monday to... Well, if you don't want to lose sight of the public, why don't we have this discussion in public? Why?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0128par0319	It's done in front of the public.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0320	Let TRT show us what time it is, friends, who wants what and what it is that he's defending. Then it will be really understood what is to be done in this country?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0128par0321	You had that argument at the Izmir courthouse.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0322	When we say pluralism in this country, you want to crown your singularist, assimilationist, racist system with a single man's dictatorship.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0129par0323	We're not assimilation.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0124par0324	But as a society of Turkey, as HDPs, I say that we will never allow this to happen, we will never allow this to happen, we will never allow your dreams to come true. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0129par0327	If we were assimilationists, you wouldn't be here.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0130par0328	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0131par0329	You had that argument at the Izmir courthouse.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0132par0330	Go on, talk. If you have something to say, say it from the stand and don't pick on it.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0131par0331	Even if he promises, I'll take the stand.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0133par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0134par0333	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0133par0334	Mr. President, Mr. Toğrul has basically repeated the issues that have been discussed, discussed, answered, and discussed in the past. We reject them. We're tired of answering them over and over again, but there's a record. Those who want to know can read it.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0135par0335	The situation doesn't change, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0134par0336	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I'm not suggesting...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0136par0338	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0134par0339	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0136par0340	I'm just saying, for the record. Mr. Bostanci has mentioned some of our questions that have been answered. No question has been answered except for a bunch of phrases stuck between three and five sentences, repeating them over and over and over again. For example, I asked myself three times: On February 9, 2016, Prime Minister Mr. Davutoglu, in an answer to the questions of the journalists on the return of the Netherlands, especially before the July 20th Suruç explosion began, he instructed all security units in October 2014...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0137par0341	That's not the way to speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0136par0342	On February 9, Davutoglu himself confirmed our claims. This is just one of many questions that they can't answer.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0138par0343	Well, Mr. Lightning, thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0139par0345	Mr. President, they've been answered. Perhaps Mr. Yıldırım wasn't present at those hearings. They are constantly trying to justify their own arguments by referring to what Mr. Davutoglu said at different times in the past. We reject that understanding.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0140par0346	I started it, he says!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0138par0347	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. In favour of the proposal, Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0141par0351	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal, with respect to the General Assembly. First of all, I curse yesterday's terrorist attack in İzmir, and I pray to God for mercy, and for immediate healing to our martyrs, including Fethi Sekin, our hero who died in this attack, but was in the way of a possible disaster. But we would like to rephrase from the bench that the terrorist organizations, PKK, DAESS, YPG, NYD, each of the killer packs, the best answer will be the unity of this country, the unity of this country, the brotherhood, the unity of this country. Mr. President, valued MPs, the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is relevant to the agenda. Today, we'll continue our talks on 446 rows, the retirement chest, which we've been interviewing since Tuesday, and the bill, which includes a pardon of record, until the end of its talks, and we'll complete it. As of Monday, hopefully, we'll begin negotiations with the Constitutional amendment proposal. Talks were held on the constitutional proposal, the Commission on the amendment proposal. In these talks, all of our highly valued MPs, both the opposition and the Justice and Development Party, have made a very valuable contribution and have come to a serious stage. I believe that the General Assembly will have the same sentiment, the same faith, and the same contribution, and I believe that the constitutional amendment will be presented to our nation's national will after we get out of this parliament. With these thoughts and feelings, I express my opinion in favor of the AK PARTI group proposal, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0142par0358	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Against the proposal, Levent Gök Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0143par0362	Ms. Tülay, you have seven minutes left, can I use that too?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0144par0363	No, time is precious.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0143par0364	Mr. President, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. I salute you all with love. When we look at the group proposal, it is a motion that the Commission's report on the final constitutional amendment will receive a number of rows, and this proposal for the number of constitutional amendments will be brought forward. As you know, there was a program here last week that said we were going to start a constitutional amendment on Monday. It seems that the Justice and Development Party's priority agenda is the Constitution, if not the Constitution. The bombs that exploded in Istanbul and the bombs that went off in Kayseri, and the bombs that went off yesterday in İzmir, are an area where the Justice and Development Party will never pay attention.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0145par0366	Of course, apart from our interest, it's obvious what's relevant.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0143par0367	Dear friends, in exactly one and a half years, 464 people were killed in the bombings. Our martyrs from Operation Final El Bab Fırat Shield are not included in this issue. Turkey is in hell all over, Turkey is in hell, and even in our most trusted provinces, terror shows its face mercilessly. It's all our job to study the causes, the consequences, to contribute to it. We say we make it happen. Look, terror hurts so much, mothers cry, let's take away the tears of the mothers. As the Republican People's Party, we will prevent terrorism when we bring it in. Bring an offer of law, or bring a change, we say we will support it immediately, but there is no word from the Justice and Development Party; otherwise the presidential regime is more important. So you don't care about terrorism, you don't care about a regime that's certain to evolve to the presidency. Now, the day before, the Home Secretary gave us information about terrorism here, and he said exactly these words, Mr. Süleyman Soylu: we're following the terrorist organization one step at a time. And as we watch the terrorist organization, he draws the bottom, and he says, "Mr. Secretary, we're also learning what actions and tactics they're putting forth, so we're making a move before the actions of the terrorist organization." My dear friends, a government, say: I think before terrorist organizations, what they're going to do, I'm going to follow things one step ahead. I mean, that's what they're going to do. With the number of our citizens who died yesterday in the Noble period, 120 of our citizens lost their lives. 464 of our citizens died in a year and a half. This is the terrorist organization being followed. Dear friends, let's be serious. So why don't we discuss Turkey's burning problem here? Come on Monday, Parliament is open, let's turn on Parliament TV; all parties in the matter of terrorism share a common stance, everyone sends a union message, but let's get a result out of this. So why don't you do that? It's a constitutional amendment. So, at this point in Turkey, what's in its power for terrorism to escalate? Is there no power in this? Syrian policy... we've told you all along, you're doing it wrong in Syria. One day in Syria, it will return to us, and you will change your Syrian policy. We became Assad here, and became I don't know what, and you became a nation. When we did these righteous warnings, you created a world that was almost polarized, the Republican People's Party was accused of wronging the Syrian policy, for saying, "Turn away from it." You don't understand what we're saying, but the other day, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Saved says that our policy in Syria was wrong all along. My dear friends, how did you get here? Will you be able to get away with saying that the moment you say that? So if the Syrian policy is wrong, won't the political responsibility and accountability be given? Because of the Syrian policy you call it, Turkey has turned into a fireball. That's why uncontrollable jihadists come to Turkey, so they nest. Don't you have any share? If you're doing it wrong, you'll do it. Why don't you take responsibility? Let's discuss this policy, no, let's keep this policy aside, let's discuss the Constitution. Here is a bomb that explodes in Izmir. It takes away our citizens, our lives, and many wounded appear. You're opening up an argument called "Strength Base." The bankruptcy of the Turkish Republic's foreign policy, my dear friends, is the current position of Turkish foreign policy. A Minister comes out, he says: "There is no point in staying at İncirlik Base." Now, that's what the journalists are saying the day before, and they're telling us, "Don't let them Blöf, if they're going to do what they have to do. We're telling them to do it. The day after the minister said these words, we have no opinion of İncirlik Base. My dear friends, with such attitudes, neither Turkish foreign policy nor Turkish politics are governed. The investigation... we're warning you, we've just been dismissed from academics, thanks to our ministers, look at the people we know, how do you do the painting? Do you know what government officials tell us? The issue is based on the lists from the rectors. My dear friends, well, if they are based on the lists from the rectors, can you trust them? That's the problem. The presidents are sending reports of a number of professors against him because of their conflict at their university. Well, that doesn't go through a filter. I mean, we're dealing with presidents, but we're dealing with the government because the government publishes the decree under the law. Naturally, this should be very thorough. We're really trying to tell you that the academics who are the victims have been suspended from work. Oh, whether you like it or not, I hope we don't get hit by bombs again one day, that's what we want to warn you about. We'll do it again, but take it under advisement, folks. You didn't take that into account either, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education said, "Don't accept this assignment the moment I'm found out that I'm going to be in this position." He explains, "Any kind of work can happen to you." My dear friends, a grave painting, a serious painting; is the government questioning this? Yeah, what did the Undersecretary mean? Who is this minister? The AKP's minister, not CHP's minister, not the Minister of the CHP, not the Minister of the HDP; a minister came out of the AKP (AKP) -- I don't know if he's on duty now, he'll know about it -- and he said something like that. Now, does that mean anything or doesn't it mean anything? Do you ask who is this minister? No. Are you going to a breakup? No. After that, the fight against the Undersecretary should have been done exactly five minutes after he had said it, in five minutes, even in one minute. We've been waiting for three or four days, no one's saying anything; trying to be forgotten, blacked out and cooled down. E, can you compete with a painting like this? Come on, we'll back you up. Let us know who this minister is. If he is on duty, if he is not on duty, do what he has to do; many people are being arrested, taken into custody, do what you have to do, my friends. Well, when we say that, let's put them aside, let's discuss the Constitution. My dear friends, Turkey, the place of fire, the economy, they're on the alert, they're on the clock. If Parliamentary Television is to release the talks on Friday, it will also have to publish the Constitutional talks starting Monday. We've been waiting three days for an answer from the ruling party. Produce your will to run Parliamentary Television at the Constitutional Talks, which will begin on Monday. They're still arguing. Hold on a second. What can change, my friends, until you come to us? Is it that hard to turn on a Capitol TV? I mean, what will the public know about something as important as the Constitution, something they won't know about? Don't let the public know, don't see, don't hear. Don't let the right reviews be met. It's a constitutional amendment. Dear MPs, this road is not a good road; it is a path that polarizes Turkey. Please give up your insistence and let's discuss the people's true agenda together in the House, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0146par0380	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0143par0384	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit03spe0146par0385	There's got to be a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Karabiyik, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Akın, Mr. Bacheloğlu, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Kara, Mr. Köse, Mr. Blackdeniz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Torun, Mr. Köksal. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit04spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law, and with the draft of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the past session, the last motion on the 21st article, in the second part of the Law Bill 446, which was considered the basic law according to the 91st Article of the Civil Code. To remind you of the motion, I'll have it reread and vote for you. However, there has been a request for correcting the motion I'm going to make. The motions submitted to the General Assembly's information should be put to such a vote, but it appears that political party groups have been briefed on the request to correct it, and there has been no objection from the groups. That's why I'm having the motion read again: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 21st Amendment to the 446th Amendment in accordance with Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Act, and to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "A further Article 4 of the Law No. 21-4706 has been changed as follows. EK MADDE 4- Turkey's Kızılay Association, Turkey's Yeşılay Society and Turkey's Yeşleceze Foundation, Darülaze Presidency, Darüşşfaka Society and the Turkish Air Agency may establish the necessary property to be used in accordance with its objectives, the Association, the Foundation, and the Association of Public Institutions. On top of the government's jurisdiction and savings, they can be allowed to use it for free. You don't get a cut on these. The property register of the rights of altitudes is condemned not to be used against its purpose. In favour of those who meet the conditions established by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Education, who have been granted tax exemption by the Council of Ministers, the right to unlimited altitude for forty-nine years over the removal of property to the Treasury or public institution and its institutions to be used in accordance with its objectives. On top of the government's jurisdiction and savings, they can be allowed to use it for free. You don't get a cut on these. In this way, all of the income obtained by the foundations, which have been established or allowed to use the right of altitude, is used to pay for the production, maintenance, maintenance, operating and so on. The property register of the rights of altitudes is condemned not to be used except for its purpose." I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The motion issued by Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and his friends on Article 21 was read in the previous session. Now, I'm going to ask this motion if the Commission and the government have participated. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0147par0008	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0146par0009	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0148par0010	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0146par0011	I'm reading the reason for the motion: The amendments to the amendment to the 21st amendment of the bill shall be made in Article 4706 in Article 4 of the Law; - It was founded in 1895 for charity, aiding a total of 72,000 people, including 30,000 children -- care, health care, housing and education, and education -- and in 1863, the first civil organisation in our country's education, regardless of the difference of religion, language, race, gender and sectry -- the mosque, church and synagogue -- and the use of the oldest and most important non-existent country's institution -- the Darülaceze presidency (the Darulace Museum), and the institution of education and the institution of the United States, which has been established in order to support the education and education and education of orphaned children, the first civil organisation of our country, and the use of its institutions, and the use of the country's institutions, and the institution for its use and the use of its use of the most important non-profeastrial institutions, and the use of its institutions, and the institution and the institution for its purposes, and the use of the country's services, and its use of its access to provide for its services and use, and its services, and its services, and its services, and the institution and its services, and its services, and the institution and the institution and the use and the use of its services and its services, for its services, and the institution, and its services, and the institution and the institution, and the use of its services and the institution, and the institution, and the institution, and the institution, for its use, and the use, and the use, and the use, and the use, and the institution and the use of the use of the use, and the institution, and the institution and the institution, and the institution, and the institution of the institution, and the institution of the institution and its its under its objectives, and the use, and the institution and the institution and the institution and the institution and its objectives and its objectives and its objectives, and its its its objectives, and the institution, and the institution, and its its its its under its objectives, and its its use, and the use, and the same; and the same; and the use, and its use, and the use, and the use, and the use of the I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion adopted just now: Those who don't agree... Article 21 is accepted. Members of parliament, there are four motions on Article 22, three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 22 of the Law bill to the Amendment to some Laws and Laws by the retired Ark Act of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramazan Can Osman Look at your love The following temporary clause is added to Law 22-4706. "Secondly, those with education and housing activities for students who have been granted tax exemption by the Council of Ministers, who have been granted the right to altitude or the right to use the right to use the property in favour of the Treasury or public corporations, or the right to move in favor of the property under the state's jurisdiction and subsidies before the date of which this clause is in effect, can be changed to the right of the Law within a year, or to the right to use its right to use its rights or to use its rights to use its rights under the second clause. Permission to use or charge for the use of the subsidiaries left under this clause is not collected or retrieved. Now that three motions I'm going to read have the same effect, I'm going to process the motions together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Berdan Özturk Mahmut Toğrul İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Erhan Usta İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Lightning The signatures of the other motion are: Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip The Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0149par0047	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0146par0048	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0150par0049	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0146par0050	I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested the same motions. The first say belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0151par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is a substance we've been discussing since yesterday, we've talked about, we're trying to compromise, but let me just say, we're against being brought in this way about the nature of matter. First of all, the foundation is the allocation of wealth and capital to a fixed purpose; it is the institutionalization of good deeds, and its continuity. Foundations are founded on this purpose: institutionalization and continuity of charity. Don't do charity work from the government, that's the principle. It is you who spend for the cause of God and the cause of God. You spend for the cause of God and spend for the cause of God for the cause of God. It's not right for the government to enter this. That's what we think. And let me tell you, there is a Law number 4706 about the allocation of these treasures, which came out in the 2000s. It's a lot of use these days. There was a time when it was said that most of the government's property, sir, most of its property, or rather most of the property in Turkey, belonged to the government, the treasure. In fact, it's 53 percent. It has to be passed to companies, individuals. It's called Turkey to produce more. But after that, the Treasury Law number 4706 was issued, they didn't move to treasure, they started to be assigned to industry, production, certain places, and by the decree of the law within November of the State of Emergency, you know, it's only about the issue of the State of Emergency when it comes to the issue of the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0152par0058	Mr. Kusoglu, just a second... Congressmans, I see a group of chatter, sounds coming this far, laughter. Please, please, sir... Go ahead, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0153par0061	Thank you, Mr. President, for your warning. Yeah, well, my brain's broken. There was a decree issued in the court of law in November. As part of Law 4706, many treasures were previously rented for twenty-nine years to their employer; this was removed for forty-nine years, and the cargo was removed from them. In fact, it shouldn't have been made by the law, it should have been done here. Then, with a full-page announcement, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President were thanked. I don't object to its content, but it was an arrangement that had to be made here. I still understand that, after all, it's an allocation for production, for industry, for the development of the manufacturing industry. The government gives you treasure land, it says, if you contribute to production and employment, I give you this land. I understand that, but the government has a job to do here, education. We're keeping it in context of this, which we're assigning to the foundations -- which should be for charity, which should be for charity. We keep the work that we have to do as a state, and we try to get the other side to do it, which is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. It's kind of a charity through the government, it's not true, it's a state-of-the-art charity situation. For him, we were against it once, and now we're against it. Some corrections have been asked on this. The right to altitude for forty-nine years has been established, as well as the sale of these foundations. We stood up to him, thanks to them, they understood, he was removed. But it was asked to expand; on the one hand, it was asked to expand in the same way to associations, foundations, and associations that are useful to the public. My dear friends, that's not true either. So, in conclusion, as I just said, the fact that a government's fundamental task was to be done by foundations, by charities that are good for the public, which are founded for charity -- these are also the allocations of treasury land by the state, the low price of its rights, and the lack of other financial, paraphilical costs, which unfortunately were all wrong.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0154par0066	I'm going to turn on your mic and complete it, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0153par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in principle, we, the Republican People's Party, are against it, I'd like to point out that. Treasure land is much more efficient, especially in Turkey, it needs to be used in jobs that increase employment, increase production, increase the industrialisation of Turkey, and should not be wasted in this way. In particular, we think it would be a waste of very neat, very productive treasures, real estate, real estate, and real estate, as a result. Mr. President, thank you very much for the extra time. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0155par0072	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya has asked for a say in the other proposal. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0156par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 22nd article of the proposed bill. I salute your high council. In fact, the 22nd article is a derivative of the 21st article. The 21st article is a clause related to the waiver of the rights of some public rights that have been transferred; its basis is the 21st article. Dear lawmakers, the 22nd article, which is actually 21 and the interim material in the course of this article, shows us that we still have not learned from a lot of things, especially things that have happened in recent times, things that have happened in some educational institutions, things that have happened in the foundations that haven't made enough sense to us. Without any more control mechanisms or structures, we've passed the decision to transfer public resources significantly, the law. Dear lawmakers, look, we're potentially opening the way for a government source so large, I believe that once this law is in effect, the ministers will be in great difficulty, the bureaucrats will be in great difficulty. There's no limit to this, the limitation is just about the side to be passed on to, you know, the tax exemption to the well-known foundations, and from these, their purpose for education will be transferred to those in that direction. However, we're making it possible for all public institutions and institutions to potentially transfer all assets, places and places in the saving of the public. The three ministries will sit down, set the criteria for this, but the three ministries will always be able to come together and change those criteria when asked. As a foundation official passes by, when he likes a public-owned building, a land, land, or a location, for example, TORGAV, (X) likes a building in the city of the public institution or institution, which minister, who, if asked to transfer it to the foundation? Dear lawmakers, we've been through this in bureaucracy. We've seen how much pressure has been put on the bureaucrat to transfer some of the resources of the utilised public institution into places. This law will allow us to transfer public resources, which we cannot control, to certain groups and communities without supervision, with the acceptance of either 21, or 22, which we refer to as a derivative clause. Before we lift a finger at them, we need to know what kind of result it can bring and what kind of plague it can cause. Dear MPs, look, we had a fire in Adana Aladağ, where we lost many children. We said, let's ask about these issues, investigate them, avoid prejudice, determine their shortcomings, create a commission. There were no ashes left at the scene of the fire, but that commission still hasn't had a single meeting. I hereby salute your high council again.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0157par0084	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. Ibrahim Ayhan, MP of Şanlıurfa, is the third speaker of the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0158par0088	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you first. Cemal Zayya has a very beautiful saying, in a verse: "We are going through poisoned times. " Indeed, now is a time that has been poisoned to the fullest when we pass through it. Of course, who makes these poisoned times? Of course, they are not the creators of these poisoned times, they are the rulers of poisoned times, and they are the rulers who try to poison the people by bringing their policies to an insufferable point of life. In a very popular way, what does that mean? ▪ Power poisoning is a concept called "a cognitive." The power is now experiencing a tremendous amount of poisoning through its 15 years of experience, and with this poisoning process, society is severely demoralized, society is severely affected, and life is insufferable. Of course, a lot can be said about power. Although I disagree fully with his views on power, Foucault is a very powerful, very extensive analyst. When Foucault does the ruling analysis, he also talks about another phenomenon besides power, and he says: "Where there is power, there is resistance." Resistance is not independent of freedom. There is an ontological union between power and resistance. This, in fact, has happened so much in the past, in communities, and in governments that we find examples of this, especially in nature. For example, in the deserts of Arabia, there were camels who particularly liked the kind of desert thorn, so the species of desert thorn was very popular with camels. When these camels found the desert thorn, they ate the desert thorn with a great appetite, a place where they liked the taste of thorns. From time to time, thorns thought that blood was the taste of thorns because it bled their palates and tongues, and they went on eating with appetite, and the camel who ate it was finally drowning in its own blood. In Arabs, this action is called Engagement, and it means ambition, ambition, and power. So, what we call power poisoning, especially in nature, is a power built on thorn in some animals, a power built on eating thorns, and ultimately, it causes its own death. For him, the antidote to power poisoning is to spread democracy horizontally, equally, into society. That's what Foucault says, and that's what's in the desert camel sample. So, the only thing that can eliminate this excess of power is not to stand in the way of resistance. The right of resistance is being pushed as hard as it can in the days we've been through, trying to get as much of it removed as possible. What is the right to resist? At the beginning of my promise, it's human rights, democratic rights, rights from freedoms. So all of this needs to be given. If all this isn't done, believe me, there's no way to get rid of this power poisoning. This is not a pathological situation that is unique to Turkey, where we are now facing the current political power. Like I said, it's happened in a lot of places in the past, and the only formula for that is that the only antidote is democracy, freedom. I pay my respects. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0159par0096	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Mr. Secretary, I believe you have a request for a statement. Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0160par0100	Mr. President, thank you. First, the arrangement, hopefully, produces useful results and results to contribute to services conducted by our government in the field of education and home services. What I, in particular, wish to present to the General Assembly is that we have provided this opportunity to the foundations that have been tax-exempted by the Council of Ministers in the arrangement we've made. However, the heart would wish that together, we could give the same goals, the same goals, and the same activities, to the public organizations, which are declared tax-free by the Council of Ministers. As a result, these are NGOs, they're charities, they're founded for charity, they're founded for charity, they're built for charity, and they're given a huge amount of support and gratitude to the community. I wanted to make that very clear. In many arrangements, especially with the Council of Ministers, we see that the arrangements for tax exemptions have been brought in the same way for public benefit associations, but hopefully, with the support of our other parties at some other time, I hope we will also make an arrangement in this area. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sky, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0162par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we learned today that two of our soldiers were killed and four of our soldiers were injured during the operations conducted at Mt. Kubeeli, Şırnak. The day goes by so we don't get shaken by the news of the martyrs every day. Seriously, Turkey is in a circle of fire, with bombs exploding in our provinces, with soldiers dying in conflict with terrorists, with our police, all of us. Today I ask God's mercy to our soldiers who are martyrs in Şırnak province, and wish our wounded immediate healing, and my condolences to our nation.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0111	Thank you, Mr. Sky. As the Crown of the Presidential Court, we pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed in Şırnak province, our condolences to their families, to the Turkish Armed Forces. I'm reading the other motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 22 of the Law bill to the Amendment to some Laws and Laws by the retired Ark Act of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to Law 22-4706. "Secondly, those with education and housing activities for students who have been granted tax exemption by the Council of Ministers, who have been granted the right to altitude or the right to use the right to use the property in favour of the Treasury or public corporations, or the right to move in favor of the property under the state's jurisdiction and subsidies before the date of which this clause is in effect, can be changed to the right of the Law within a year, or to the right to use its right to use its rights or to use its rights to use its rights under the second clause. Permission to use or charge for the use of the subsidiaries left under this clause is not collected or retrieved. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0163par0125	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0126	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0164par0127	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0165par0128	Motive.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0129	I'm reading the reason: Writing corrections are intended to be made in the matter in order to address any hesitations that may occur during the application of the substance. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes in accordance with the amendment adopted by the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the 22nd article has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the terms of the terms of the law, which are included in Article 23 of the Law Bill 446. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446 billion Turkish Lira of Turkey shall be changed into.30 billion Turkish liras, which have been passed under Article 23 of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Argi Erdem Deniz Depboylı Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 23 of the Civil Code to the Amendment to some Laws and Laws under the Laws of the Republic of Turkey, which are currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip The Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer (MADDE 23-28/3/2002.) Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0166par0159	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0160	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0167par0161	We can't agree.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0161par0162	Bült Kuşoğlu wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0168par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on Article 23 of the Law Bill, which is the number 446. Dear friends, this bag is the most ambitious item of the law, Article 23. Because this clause has been repeatedly explained to the press by the Prime Minister and by the Minister. The amount of funding is raised to $25 billion Turkish dollars of KGF (KGF) and thus, according to the Prime Minister, 10 times the amount of $25 billion, 250 billion tradesmen and artists, in this crisis environment, our businessmen can use loans. First of all, it seems like a really beautiful, very meaningful substance, and I wish it was, but we have reservations about that. Now, the limit of the fund right now is $2 billion, just like I just read it. So let's see, how much credit has been used in case there's a $2 billion limit? In six years, the amount of loans that have been used since 2009 has produced an increase of $8 billion, $8 billion. What's the situation now? And now there's a $3.9 billion loan being used, so at the same time we're talking about the Plan and Budget Commission, 72 million of the Treasury is at risk, and the Treasury has to pay for it. Now there's a $2 billion fund in the Credit Guarantee Fund, and there's a 3.9 billion bail risk, and we're taking it up to 25. But we're changing the system. So, so far, a COBI has been applying to a bank, where it's being examined, and it's being sent to the Credit Guarantee Fund, and the system has been slow. Now, it was said that after this, the system would work faster, the procedure would be accelerated by a new program, the larger masses would be reached, 9.200 businesses would even be covered. But here's the thing: in the new system, outside the old system, there's a risk-sharing, not a profit and loss account -- according to the minister, so from now on, both the Credit Guarantee Fund and the banks will share the risk. But what we're afraid of in practice is the fact that the bank will do its review, guarantee its own risk, block a certain bank account, the owner of the SME, the owner of the business -- he's already in trouble -- wants a $100,000 loan -- he'll agree to 60,000 lira, he'll say it's enough -- the bank will block 40,000 lira, he'll get 60 grand, he'll get a mortgage on the other side, and the Credit Guarantee Fund will pay it. The Loan Guarantee Fund, the Treasury, will ultimately have to guarantee this non-payment. The bank won't take the fall for blocking it. Unfortunately, in practice, it's going to happen, and that's the example from the past, because that's the banking system, the banker wants to guarantee himself. We have experienced similar examples in the past, and we fear that a similar situation will arise. What are we afraid of? There's a record pardon coming up on the following items. A record pardon will not be taken into account by the banks. I told you in my speech yesterday, there's no warranty, it says that a pardon of the record can be taken into account by a recommended substance, the banks, especially by private banks. In a client who's come with a record pardon -- as I said just now -- he's going to block his own risk -- he's going to send the rest to the Credit Guarantee Fund, they're going to do their reviews, they're going to have a record pardon, they're going to consider the private bank, they're not going to pay particular attention to the bank, and there's going to be a great risk to the Treasury. We think this should have been arranged in a better way, and that's how I want to say that this 250 billion-dollar fund is actually not true, and if that's true, it's a huge risk to the Treasury. I hereby salute everyone with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0169par0172	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446 billion Turkish Lira of Turkey shall be changed into.30 billion Turkish liras, which have been passed under Article 23 of the Law and Law Act. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0170par0179	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0169par0180	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0171par0181	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0172par0182	Motive...
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0169par0183	I'm reading the reason: The amount of loans provided by the Credit Guarantee Fund is expected to be increased. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the terms of the terms of the law, which are included in Article 23 of the Law Bill 446. Ahmet Yıldırım (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0173par0192	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0169par0193	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0174par0194	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0169par0195	Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0175par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group regarding Article 23 of Law Bill 446. I salute you all. Precious lawmakers are raised from 2 billion to 25 billion dollars in the current legislation, with the current transaction of cash from institutions that guarantee loans to companies. There are two things that need to be focused on from our point of view: one is the size of authority, which is that the Ministry alone has the authority to transfer a large amount of funds to a single signature; a second dimension is the lack of control and control mechanism. Thus, the lack of these two issues can lead to a number of subjective decisions at the next stage. Of course, in front of the House, with the ruling party's motion, it would appear that on Monday, the constitutional amendment package will be down to the House, and we'll probably start negotiating. Of course, dear friends, the whole community, the whole community, all its beliefs, all its ethnic structures, all of its different ethnic structures, the social contract that has to be covered by different classes and layers, in fact, the society as a whole, conceptually, let's call it nation, nation, people, whatever we say, but the constitution that connects the entire community, the constitution that actually connects the society, should come in a way that all parts of the community feel like it's a social contract. But, unfortunately, this arrangement, as in the constitutions of the past coup, would be like the constitution of the majority, not all parts of society, which would, unfortunately, deepen the policy of fear that is now present in society, the policy of division and conflict that exists in society. In short, when we look back from the past to the present, look, after June 7th, the country was judged by chaos after the failure to form power alone, because there was no way for it to come to power on its own. As of November 1st, the AKP came to power on its own, but, unfortunately, in the country, chaos deepened, so there was chaos, not a peace, a stability. This chaos is getting deeper and deeper, unfortunately, in our country, we need to see this. In domestic politics, the country is in chaos, a fear is dominated by politics. Fear politics, even in the most peaceful societies in the world, breeds dissolution and conflict, even in the most democratic societies. The policy of fear that prevails in the country today, the policy that walks practically in accordance with the state of emergency and the rule of law, is unfortunately causing serious cracks, emotional breakdowns in the country. We can sit here and argue for hours, but reality doesn't improve at the level of our discussion here. Unfortunately, in the country right now, a serious Kurdish-Turkish dissolution, a Alevi-Sunni dissolution... is being drawn to ethnic and religious society ghettos, starting to form their own ghetto. In the past, but mostly encouraged by the practices of the ruling party, the neighborhood pressure went on to become more and more lynching culture, this time, until it reached media, television, or coffeehouse talks, threats, killing, punishment. Now, in such an environment, in the coming days, it is not possible to discuss a constitution in which all communities, beliefs, all different ethnic identities, and society, in some sense, can be part of a common form, and perhaps have cement, on such a basis, to carry out the constitution of the entire community, on this axis, on the public agenda. I hope that the government will give up the culture it has built on this warrior, this separatist, this empire of fear, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0176par0205	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes... III-. Exposure
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0177par0209	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit05spe0176par0210	There's got to be a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Küyükoğlu, Mr. Büyükoğlu, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Ustündağ, Mr. Kazım Arslan, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Torun, Mr. Sibel Özdemir, Mr. Sarıal, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Tekin, Mr. Köse, Mr. Topal, Mr. Kara. Yeah, I'm starting the roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 23 of Law Bill 446, the meeting was not enough before the vote of the motion given by Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman and his friends. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] I'm going to identify the presence of lawmakers who voted by compass in the General Assembly. Mr. Karaburun? Here. Mr. Mustafa Şahin? No. Mr. Orhan Miroglu? Here. Mr. Mehmet Akyürek? No. Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh? Here. Mr. Haci Özkan? No.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0015	Guys, how do you send people who aren't there? How can you send people who aren't?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0016	Mr. Vedat Scholar? Here. Mr. Metin Bulut? No.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0018	Yeah, well, you guys are sending the ones that aren't there. No way.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0019	Mr. Abdulkadir Ascendant? No.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0020	Mr. President, please process the senders. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0021	Mr. Sky, please, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0179par0022	The ones that didn't exist.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0023	Where, why are you sending him in? For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0024	Mr. Cemil Flower? Here. Mr. Burhan Kayaturk? Here.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0026	No. Where are they? I'm going to press charges against those who don't show up, so be serious about those who don't show up. Oh, man, that's not gonna happen. You're sending people here who aren't.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0029	Congressmans, please, sir. Mr. Serkan Bayram? No.
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0178par0031	No. There's no more than half of it. No way. Not even one person, is that right?
tbmm-2017-01-06sit06spe0176par0032	Since the second roll call did not find enough meetings, the decision required that the bill and proposals meet with other commissions in order of Monday (January 9, 2017) at 14 p.m. on Monday (January 9, 2017). I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
