tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 118th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0002par0003	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0003par0004	Oh, Mayor, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0001par0005	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bilecik MP Yaşar Tuzün, who wants to talk about Bilecik's problems. Mr. Charter, please. These podcasts missed you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0004par0013	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all. Today, I have taken an off-the-topic promise to address the problems of our Bilecik province, which is the center of the organization and salvation. I salute you all. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a city with marble, marble, soil, ceramics, and silk. We know that such a city, along with its historical and cultural features, has been in the government for fifteen years, and that the word of Sheikh Edebali will live on so that the state can live. We also know that the state and the republic have not shown enough interest in this holy land, and that it does not support it enough. And I think it's my job as a member of the district to bring these problems up here. Dear friends, keep the people alive so that the state can live. Your authority, unfortunately, does not allow you to live, nor does the government support you at the point of life. So far, the law proposals we've made at the point of service in our region are not accepted by your power and parliament group. In particular, the proposed law at the point of national parking in our Bozük Metristepe, which we call the center of the organization and salvation, has been rejected over and over again. Again, at the point where the governor and the trustees who were appointed to Bilicik will be able to serve Bilicik, I have to make it clear that even though we know the state well, who knows bureaucracy well, and who we think is always with us at the point of service, even the child who will come into the world is nine months and ten days, we cannot accept the appointment of a governor for nine months. Because if a governor is appointed by your government, by your government, it is your duty to follow and control his services. But if you have any dissatisfaction with the governor, you'll take him to headquarters, but I'd like to say once again that it's not right to relieve a governor of a nine-month-long county in nine months and appoint another governor. Dear friends, our Bilecik has more problems than we can count, but Bilecik is also an industrial city with historical and cultural properties. Organised industrial districts, 186 factories, over 20,000 employees, and unfortunately, we have more than 10 companies in your reign among the top 100 tax records in Turkey. Right next door, you're building a customs department with a $200 million exporter in Bolu County, but you're not setting up a customs department to handle the business of industrial companies in a county that exports over $1 billion. Again, you refuse to accept the laws we've made so far. Unfortunately, your ministers -- today there is one -- but most of it never happens -- and yesterday, unfortunately, there was no minister here -- when the Turkish Grand National Assembly was being discussed. I repeat once again that I have filed a complaint against their ministers, the Council of Parliament and the Parliament's parliamentary speakers, and I know that they have not responded to any of the questions we've submitted regarding Bilicik. Dear friends, once again, you have a slogan for love that doesn't end, knowing that the way to Bilecik-Bursa doesn't end in your fifteen years of power, and we know that. We know that one of the most important problems of the bracelet is the hospital problem. In the last few months, seven ministers, four deputy ministers, were not enough, the Prime Minister came to Bilecik, but none were present at the groundbreaking ceremony, nor were any of them present at the opening ceremony. It's not the minister's job to come into a city and drive around. It's not visiting the governor, visiting the city, visiting his party, buying plaques, giving plaques. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you have a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0005par0023	Complete, please, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0004par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister, no matter which way he goes, the Prime Minister, with whichever way he goes, has to bring service to that constituency. It is not a minister's duty to visit the governor, visit the mayor, or visit the political party, and receive plaques, using all his means. So far, in the last few months, seven ministers, prime minister, minister's assistants, president's advisors -- they got plaques in billecik, plaques -- to the people of Bilecik -- by shouting at the General Assembly that they did not make the necessary contributions, I salute the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0005par0027	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Karabuk MP Burhanettin Uysal, who has asked for a word on problems in Jerusalem and Jerusalem in the last days. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0006par0032	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the violations of human rights and freedom of faith in Jerusalem, the first direction of Muslims, the city of the prophets, and the recent days in Jerusalem. I salute your high council. Jerusalem is the first of the nation's qiblahs, and the third sacred temple in Islam, after the Masjid Haram in Mecca and the Nebevi in Medina, is a separate place and a significant one because of its presence in the sanctuary of the Masjid-i Aksa. The al-Masjid al-Aqsa is as sacred to us Muslims as Mecca and Medina. We have a responsibility to Jerusalem, and Muslims must take care of this case. The second conqueror of Jerusalem, Salahaddin Ayyubi, slept in a tent even when he was not with his army on the journey, and those who saw it asked: "Salahaddin, why don't you lie in your house like the rest of the sultans?" The answer to this question was this: "How does Saladin sleep in his own house when God's house is in captivity? " With this precision, he conquered Jerusalem. It is every Muslim's duty to take care of Jerusalem, to show him the respect and sensitivity he needs. The case of Jerusalem is not just the case of our Palestinian brothers. In World War I, we fought our greatest battle on the southern front to protect Mecca, Medina, and Jerusalem, and we could not stop the invasion, despite the victories we had won in Çanakkale and Kutal Amare. Since the first Crusades, Jerusalem, where we have shed blood for her, has not seen or seen peace since that day. It is unacceptable for Israel to close the Harem-i Sharif (Harem) for three days in East Jerusalem, where it has been occupied since 1967, and then to try to bring new restrictions on the entrances of Muslims to the Harem-i Sharif (Harem). Everyone knows that the purpose of Israel's administration here is not to be a security concern, but to be completely isolated from the mosque of Muslims. I would like to say once again that the sacred city's religious and historical heritage is to claim our past and identity in the face of the practice of Israel's Harem-i Sharif, and the heavy violation of the Holy Mosque's Aksa, and the unacceptable savings of Jerusalem to change its multi-religious, cultural structure. The Jerusalem case is not only the trial of our Palestinian brothers, but the haremism and honor of the entire Islamic world of 1.7 billion. It is a legal obligation to respect the blessings and historical status of Jerusalem and the Harem-i Sharif. The control of the Masjid al-Aqsa (Aksa), both by law and by our faith, should be for Muslims. I also condemn the excessive use of the Israeli forces against our Palestinian brothers, and ask God's mercy and urgent healing for the wounded, for our brothers who have lost their lives in the events of the Harem-i Sharif. Israel persists in violations of the law with the courage it receives from various powers. Jerusalem continues to live and live without Muslims. The search for peace and stability in the region is doomed to fail without being questioned about the murders, massacres, and persecution of international law. The only way for lasting peace in the Middle East is for an independent, sovereign and geographical state, which is the capital of East Jerusalem, within the borders of 1967. As Turkey, we just want to be respected by the Muslims in Jerusalem. On July 15th, we will, of course, give the answer to this injustice sooner or later, just as we gave the best answer to those who wanted to silence the voices of the tyrants from the sky. By Allah's grace, I say we will not allow the oppressor to be silenced in the skies of Jerusalem. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0007par0041	Thank you. And we would like to express once again that we condemn the attacks on our first honorary qiblah of all Muslims, the Masjid-i Aksa, who is in the position of the harem of all Muslims, and that we invite all advocates of freedom of religion and conscience, human rights advocates, and the international community, as a whole, to be sensitive to these attacks in order to ward off the attacks. Now, third off-the-book, the word belongs to Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez, who wants to talk about Şırnak's problems. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin my speech, I salute our first co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, who have been in unlawful custody for months and are the will of millions. Well, now I'm going to tell you about the endless problems of the city that didn't exist, lawmakers. Over two years across Şırnak, a systematic regime of persecution has been under way that has never been seen in history. The AKP government adopts a special concept for Şırnak, where it activates all of the state's difficult and persuasive devices. The city of Şırnak was wiped out by the government's special demolition teams in the blockades that lasted for months. The Justice and Development Party (AKP) government has unfortunately launched special destruction policies in order to dehumanize Şırnak province, to wipe out the identity, dates, memory of Şırnak people. As such, there is no difference between the city of Gdansk, Poland, which was destroyed 90 per cent during the Second World War of Şırnak. Dear MPs, there has been a special kind of regime in our province of Şırnak for months. The most important feature of this regime is that it does not recognise law, morality, and human values. A regime that wipes out the city center completely, loots, plunders before its own land, puts its own citizen in a refugee position. Every day, however, the homes that remain intact continue to be destroyed. The people of Şırnak, who were turned into refugees in their own town, were not offered an alternative place to live at the first moment. Sadly, not even temporary container cities, which have been memorised throughout the world in an extraordinary situation to prevent the return of our citizens, who have been staying in tents for months, who have generally docked around Şırnak and settled in districts and villages, have been set up. The AKP government, which has launched a regime that has not been seen in history in Şırnak, is not enough to wipe out the city from the map, it turns the city into torture, even the frequent walking of police checkpoints inside the city into flat terrain; it continues to burn forests, build dams, slaughtering its nature for security reasons; it is not enough, it shows that it will not stop its province by bringing its presidents to a permanent agenda of political sanctions. In the entire city, hundreds of people, especially our party staff, have been taken into custody, arrested, still under arrest, and haven't been put in court for over a year. Constant home raids have been made, villages have been banned; not enough, mandatory services for citizens of a state are linked to their record files and conditions. The services to the villages have been suspended and neglected. Again, temporary and military security zones have been declared under the name "safety" and the public's agricultural and animal activities have been cut off. Our municipalities, elected by the will of the people with 80% and more votes, have been condemned, appointed trustees, and the will of the people has been ignored. The trustees, for alleged better municipalism, have actually finished municipalism and have made a little more of an effort to wipe out the memory of the municipalities by simply cutting off the last of the last of the Turkish Cypriots and 121 municipal workers from their jobs. All municipal trustees and exports are requested to be purged of municipalism. Again, it's as if the projects that have not been carried out in the DBP municipalities in Şırnak province and districts have been approved by your trustees, as if they were their own, to be carried out and played with perceptions, as they say, is the least tricky, but they don't eat. In Şırnak, the owners of private regime policies, established by the AKP government for more than two years in violation of law, morality and human values, and all property and administrative officials responsible for urban destruction will be tried in national and international courts for crimes against humanity while they are in charge in Şırnak, and there is no doubt about that. In addition, government officials who seek to deepen and deepen the right to human rights should know that throughout history those who have slaughtered people for their own lust for power and who have committed brutal destruction against cities have always been cursed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Irmez. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who entered the system in accordance with the Civil Code 60. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0010par0069	In 2007, one gave a flash drive to Tuncay Ozkan, a journalist at the time. Tuncay Özkan delivers this information to the Commander of the Land Forces, which includes the organization of the organization. From there, the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of National Defence, and finally the Air Force Command and the Solar Work Group are formed. Then this case will be closed. In 2008, Tuncay Özkan is arrested and, as we all know, remains in prison for six years. Now, I ask you, if that case hadn't been closed ten years ago, would we have been martyrs of July 15th and the 249th? Today, Tuncay Özkan is going to hand this case over to the prosecution and we're waiting, and we're really going to ask again if the political foot of this construction is going to be uncovered today, and I'm going to ask you again if it's the people who turned this case over, or the ones who closed it...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0009par0072	Mr. Aydýl is Mr. Arik instead of Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0011par0074	Mr. President, democracy is not about power, it's about opposition. The goal of the amendment to the Civil Code, which the AKP and the MHP have brought up under the direction of the court, is to destroy the opposition, democracy. Here, it is the peasant who wants to be silenced; it is the worker who wants to be silenced; it is the shopkeeper who wants to be silenced; it is the industrialist who wants to be silenced; it is the unemployed who are asked to be silenced; it is the college graduates who are asked to be silenced; it is the alumni who are not appointed. In short, it's people who want to be silenced here. The AKP and its party may view its parliament as a complete fulfillment of the palace's instructions, but we know well that our people did not send us to the Veteran Assembly to be the gatekeepers of the palace. We will continue to be the voice of this saintly nation. History will write down the palace's doormen and its true representatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0012par0077	Watch your language, watch your language.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0013par0078	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0014par0080	Mr. President, I'd like to read to you a piece of the statement of Akin Atalalay, one of the defendants in the trial against Cumhuriyet daily: Hüseyin Aktaş, who I sent $2,500 via EFT on March 28, 2011, is a parquetist. There's a payment on him for renovating the floorboard in my living room. Here's the prosecutor, who's on his way. Meanen says, "O Akin Atalay, there's a son of Hüseyin Aktas, who you had done the hard work in his house six and a half years ago, who you paid $2,500 for. Your son's name is Attila. This is Attila, who one day eats at a restaurant in Burma. X is a company that runs a restaurant where he eats. There is a report on the owner of this company, Şaban Aydın. Give me your check. Mr. President, I'm very curious to know who will be able to identify this order. A scheme to frame people through the restaurant where the parkec's son eats can only be called the wildebeest regime. So, to hell with desire, may freedom live!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0015par0084	Mr. President, the new education curriculum, announced by the Ministry of National Education, aims not at the growth of creative and highly-equipped young people, but at a generation that is free of modern and scientific criteria, from secular principles, from Ataturk principles and verses, from memorists, not researching, not questioning, from dogmas. The efforts of an Ata (Ada) who calls his children peace in the land and peace in the world are typical of today's ruling mindset. How can this educational system reach the technological age? Alas for our beautiful country, our future generations. As our ancestor said, for all things in the world, for civilization, for life, for prosperity, the truest disciple is science, science. The Ministry of Education must quickly return from this ignorance and ignorance.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0013par0086	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Ismet Yilmaz, who is prepared for the curriculum prepared by the Ministry of National Education, says it is prepared according to the requirements of the curriculum. The situation is grave when it is considered a reflection of how the Minister views the age. The view, the values of the republic and the understanding of non-democracy education, are also alarming for the future of our country, which has limited our country to almost banning and celebrating national holidays. The future of education in Turkey will be troubled by this far-reaching approach to modern knowledge and science throughout the programme, which has moved away from secular education, led the concept of aturisticism from its curriculum, ignoring the decline and disintegration process of the Ottoman institution and the process of ascension. Education that does not meet the values of the Republic, Ataturkism, secularism, knowledge and science cannot reach modernity. The point of our education is that the future of our education can't be corrected that way, when the PISA reports have bitter consequences.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0017par0092	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. The character is a whole of the spiritual lines that exist in human beings. A weak character is not a sin, but it leads to sin. A good character is earned by facing difficulties. Every evil is born of a weak character. If you put a frog in the chair, he'll jump in the mud again. A character is a moral order that surrounds a person. A beautiful thought combined with a strong character reveals wonders. There's nothing wrong with a person who doesn't have one. Protecting its essence, it can regain its shell. Broken characters can't give themselves an idea. Even if the lion starves to death in the cave, he will not eat the dog's leftovers, and the jackal will be a jackal. Sheikh Sadi said. There are characters in countries and nations. Crimes committed in Palestine and Jerusalem are also an embodiment of ionist character.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0017par0096	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, the Official Gazette has published regulations concerning the establishment of upper rights for public transport and housing activities. This regulation is based on Law 4706. Despite the absence of the name of the President of Religious Affairs in the Law, the application for education and housing in the regulations has been imposed on the President of the Religious Affairs to take appropriate opinions on plans and projects. This is unacceptable in terms of the field of education that unites different parts of society, and it is incompatible with the democratic and secular understanding of our Constitution. I'd like to inform you that this mistake has to be returned at once.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0017par0100	Mr. Tarhan is replaced by Mr. Doğan...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. President, three of my colleagues, Mr. Akin Atalay, Mr. Bkent Utku and Mr. Mustafa Kemal Güngör are being tried in the case of the Cumhuriyet daily which began yesterday. The case, in this case, is the removal of the right to defence, as well as the efforts of Turkey to condemn the AKP's ruling to one voice. As a matter of fact, the right to a fair trial in Turkey has been suspended in violation of the law since July 20, 2016. As part of the State of Emergency, attorney-client relations are also restricted to preventing the right to defend themselves. Even our fellow lawyers under arrest have been restricted to their rights as defendants. Like justice, defense is everybody's right. If the lawyer is thirsty, the defense will shut up. Release the arrested attorneys.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0017par0103	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0021par0105	I'm asking the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. One: Water from Menderes is not regularly given to water the Plain of Baklan, and the products cannot be watered. Do you come up with any solutions for this setback? Two: The watering of Denizli Sarayköy Plain is not regular. It's said that the water used for irrigation was cut by the Rough Holdings. When are you going to make sure the irrigation is organized? Three: When will you finish the Cindere Dam, which continues to be built in our Denizli Southern district? Four: Do you have a project to water the entire plain of Denizli Tavas County? If so, when will you implement it, or do you not plan to water the entire Plain of Tavas? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0022par0111	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0023par0113	On the way to the one-man regime, we began to discuss the changes in the Civil Code, which wiped out the thorns and led to the 1980 coup. MHP MP Mehmet Günal wrote this book entitled Law in Torba, which says in his book: "I rebelled against the imposition of the AKP (AKP) to force parliament to become a finger democracy, and I spoke in the commission for four hours, as a manifesto. In the end, I blocked a bag of laws that cleared the December 17th-25th operation. The bag, which is the poison of corruption, says, "We will not swallow this poison, even if you put honey on the laws." He says, "We will not swallow it." And he talks about the struggle he's been fighting for four hours. But unfortunately, books like this can't be written anymore, because it's a profit if he can talk for four hours, let alone four. So Turkey, which has been silenced by democracy of the silent, will be created by blocking the way the facts are spoken. Why, then, does the opposition turn down its own voice, and with this Civil Charter, which contains toxic substances, it approves the cognitive understanding? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0024par0116	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0025par0118	The Adularya Energy Electrical and Mining Corporation has been seized and appointed trustees on charges of being related and defected. There are also allegations that the appointed trustees, aside from the fact that they're paid exorbitant wages and salaries, are irrelevant. The workers of this company who work at the mine in the village of Eskişehir, Mihalıçük district of Kömeteli are unable to receive wages for months. Despite the exorbitant fees taken by the trustees, our workers are disciplined by poverty and their labor is exploited. There are also allegations that 80,000 tons of coal found in this company's warehouse were not sold because the trustees were away from the issue, and that the company was mismanaged. We ask: When will the victims of these workers be compensated, when will their salaries be paid, and how much do these trustees charge? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0024par0120	Mr. Constantly....
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0026par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. In my dream, I saw Aksa. He was saying hello to the Muslim. I can't stand this separation, Let him embrace me, he called me Islam. Israel has been an invader in Jerusalem since 1967. As in many parts of Palestine, Israel, which has been despoiled by uncertainty in the land of Palestine, continues to spread throughout Jerusalem. Finally, on July 14th, the mosque Aksa was closed for worship. We still remember the brutal slaughter of our sister, who wanted to perform her religious duties in her own temple. Last week, Israel killed three Palestinian brothers and wounded 400 brothers to prevent Friday's prayer, a symbol of Muslim freedom. Although the world today plays three monkeys trapped between the lips of five countries, we never give up the rights of Palestine. Al-Masjid al-Aqsa is Our first qiblah. This attitude of Israel...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0027par0129	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. I expect newly appointed ministers to offer good service to our country, to our nation, and to wish you success in your duties. Especially as Giresun MP, we have expectations from Mr. Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. We especially expect him to demonstrate policies that protect the rights and interests of our producers, unlike the ones that we have now, about the nuts that rotate the wheel of the six provinces, which are the only source of income in our region, about 8 million populations. Mr. Secretary, my first call is to immediately take concrete measures regarding the currently crawling price of nuts and to form intervention policies for 2017, taking views from the sides of the nut. We want and wait for him to become minister of foreign monopoly, not their native partners, but nuts and manufacturers. Eight-nine lira is a price made by the colonists, not by the right of nuts. I want it known that we can't remain silent about our country, our region, our producer's further victimization. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0029par0134	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0030par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Ministry of Health has decided to renovate and repair at Tarsus State Hospital. There is no basis for a new hospital, which will be held in the June 7th elections, a nail that has yet to crash while waiting for the state hospital, which is said to have been auctioned off, which is then said to have been approved. The hospital, which is expected to be destroyed, has been renovated, which has led to the city's insurgency. Unfortunately, the hospital is pathetic in a city of 400,000 people. Again, construction at the Cotton Dam, which has been repeatedly promised by our Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, has stopped again, and workers are unable to receive their wages. From our Minister, it's time to... He promises this side every year from 2013, but it just doesn't work out. Every time we meet, he calls the DSI Regional Manager, calls the Director General, but unfortunately, it's the same thing; we want a solution now, Mr. Secretary. Please finish the Cotton Dam. All the land to Mersin shall be watered by the Cotton Dam. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here we expect you to open this dam in 2018. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0031par0142	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0032par0144	Mr. President, Istanbul's last handful of green fields are being destroyed. It is unacceptable for parks, gardens, squares, and green areas to be opened to construction based on infrastructure work. The heart of the city we breathe in is also a natural massacre in the construction site of Maçka, Ashian Park, after the Nuts and Göztepe Parks. With an arbitrary understanding of these parks that have been marked in history, I do it, it does it. The destruction of our cultural heritage is looting. Look, concrete gulls, no green fields in fillings. There are no highways in parks. The opening of green areas to construction is not a public benefit, it's a public disaster. Remember, nature takes back what's been taken away from it. We've lived and seen this with the earthquake of marmara on August 17th. Let's not commit any more crimes against Istanbul, history, culture, nature and public memory. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0033par0149	Mr. Aydemir, once again, we say we're sorry for your loss.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0034par0150	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0033par0151	I pray for God's mercy to Mother Mother.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0034par0154	God bless you, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Like any mother, the embodiment of chastity, Islam and glory; the source of virtue, happiness and praise; the spirit horizon, which shares our pain, tears, without precedent, with the loss of the noble mother, the mourners, the conquerors, the prayers, and the amens. [[Reading the 156th verse of Bakara by the preacher]] ...to our Parliamentary President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Council of Ministers, members of our Council of Ministers, members of the political party who have taken our undying heartbreak off the agenda of the General Assembly and shared it with our presidents, deputies, brothers and sisters of Erzurum, who have personally come to Erzurum, to reach us through various means of communication, to wipe out our tears, to ease our heart storm, and to all of our members of our Parliament, to our citizens and staff, to all of our past. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0035par0159	Thank you. We wish you mercy once again. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0036par0163	Mr. President, the first qiblah of Islam, the honor and honor of the nation, is a major attack on the freedom of religion and worship of the Masjid al-Aqsa, which our ancestors served for four centuries. The Harem-i Sharif in Jerusalem has not been shut down since 1967, especially since Friday prayer. Mr. President has called upon the international community as President of the Summit of the Islamic Union to remove the application that restricts freedom of worship in the Harem-i Sharif. Despite all warnings, I condemn Israel's conduct against human rights and the use of force and violence against our brothers for Friday prayer. Let's not make the Muslim temple cry, let's all take care of it together. I pray for the mercy of God to the three brothers who lost their lives in the events in the region, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0037par0168	And finally, Mr. Backup. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0038par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Women, who are the main factor in the struggle for democracy, will not hand over the shorts they could wear to the Middle Ages darkness that you wanted to take to our country in the 1930s, and women, Republican women, will give the best answer by continuing to be in the shorts of women with every kind of immorality and morality. We can wear whatever we want, go anywhere, laugh all we want, because we're Republican women. Stay out of my clothes!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0039par0174	Thank you. Now, Mr. Akçay of our Group President, please, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0040par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is in a fearless, crushing struggle with all kinds of environments, formations, groups, organisations and structures that sharpen teeth at its back, want to dynamite it. On 16 June 2017, our teacher, Necmettin Yilmaz, was killed and thrown into the creek, and on the night of July 15th, Ankara's Special Forces Command, Petty Officer Omar Halisdemir was fighting a fierce battle with terrorists and his minions, who had killed 250 of their sons. In the northern part of Iraq and Syria, the terrorist government, which is planned to reach the Mediterranean, wants to strike gold. The United States delivered weapons and ammunition to the PKK/PYD area 434 times in shipments from June 5th to July 9th. Britain's Ambassador to Ankara has confessed to co-operation with the YPG, moving further, stressing that they do not consider ا a terrorist organization. Turkey's political, economic and diplomatic siege aims to raise its surrender flag. For us, the motto is either will or death. The password is a guide to national consciousness and conscience. Relations with Germany are another important bet. The presence of a German citizen among the so-called activists detained in Büyükada, İstanbul, later arrested on July 18th opened another breach in Turkey-German relations. Activism, the new mask of agents, has been on the agenda since July 15th. What relationship networks do Germany worry about being exposed? If he's uncomfortable with the arrest of his own citizen, why is he so eager to protect the criminals we want him to extradite?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0041par0182	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0040par0183	Germany will release the so-called activists, surrender the traitors and terrorists in his country unconditionally. We hope that relations between Turkey and Germany will improve. The German Foreign Minister has been very patient with Turkey. He has gone so far as to say. Don't let Germany forget that Turkey is not a worthy slave. It should be well known that in Turkey's Middle East and global political equation, we will push back the plots to suppress the resurrected national consciousness. It's called Germany, it's England, it's the United States; the national rule won't change. Sadly, mankind is weak and silent in the face of the cruelness of Israel. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0042par0188	Complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0040par0189	In particular, the hesitation, conflicting, looseness of many countries in the Islamic world is extremely thought - inspiring. When will many Islamic nations, who have surrendered their will and future, make an effective debut in the drama of the Masjidi Aksa, and when will they come to the side of their principles and beliefs? Why are the Gulf countries that raised the Qatar crisis timid? Unfortunately, the sense of solidarity and cooperation of the Islamic world is damaged. Those having an open or secret relationship with Israel are indifferent to the traumas and abuses of the West Bank, Gaza, Jerusalem. In a way, this indifference shows the misery of Islamic countries. Israel must withdraw its hand from the mosque Aksa, where it is haunted. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0042par0191	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0043par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. With the State of Emergency process, we have launched a 24/7 conscience and justice watch, which will take place in Diyarbakır, the beginning of the Democratic Party of Peoples, and the beginning of the democratic struggle, the freedom of democratic politics, as part of Turkey's rapid antidemocratic and monotheistic practices. Today at 12.30 p.m., we started a group meeting at Diyarbakir Ekin Ceren Park in Diyarbakir, where we were allowed to have a conscience and justice watch yesterday, but today, all sorts of obstructions have been attempted against our MPs and our party spokesman. The park has been blockaded by police and armored vehicles, and public access has been blocked. One person is trying to destroy democracy and freedom. He's monopolized both the judiciary and the media, and it's being systematically studied to absorb all the opposition. I want to show you these pictures. So Turkey wants to be turned into a prison. So in a park, our lawmakers will use a democratic right and start a watch, but that's what they do. In the same way, our deputies are asked to stand in a certain corner in the 55-degree heat of Diyarbakır against the press alone. But I'd like to remind you that we've actually seen a lot of examples of this in history, and we may continue to see it today, but we know that we're right, and we really...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0044par0198	Complete.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0043par0199	...we know that democratic politics will win in Turkey. After that, we will continue to keep these seizures in Istanbul, Van and İzmir. I'd like to report to the General Assembly. Besides, yesterday, I was on trial for the Republic, where my thirty-year-old colleagues were tried as prisoners. And that will go down in history as a disgrace to this country. For the first time in our legal life, we have even witnessed a practice called the secret expert. So the expert, the self-proclaimer, is actually my expert, that's my specialty. When it was supposed to be the person who said it, there was a secret expert on this file. We're really having a hard time understanding this law freak. My dear Akin Atalay has refuted all claims within four hours. From now on, we say it's either law or beer. We'll see about that. Moses' defense, which Moses Kart had shown especially since the 1980s, was very brief, very profound, and very impressive. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0045par0205	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0043par0206	We are looking for the proper ground to climb. By showing a cartoon of Fetullah Smiley's bubble -- which he drew in the 1980s -- we are looking for the proper ground to climb. It's obvious why they're there, because they said, "We've never been the rose of the parallel, parallel, congregation structure, we're not the same mountain mane, that's why we're judged." That's why they're on trial. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0046par0210	Thank you. Mr. Special, I believe Mr. Seyit Torun will speak on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0047par0212	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0046par0213	Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0048par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday we removed the funeral of our 24th-century Samsun MP Ihsan Calcutta. I ask God to have mercy on him again, and his place will be in heaven. My condolences to his family, his relatives, the Republican People's Party. Also, I'd like to thank everyone who attended the funeral, who sent wreaths, who called, on behalf of our party, and thank you. God rest his soul. He was a real man. Yes, I'd like to talk about a nut that's a very important livelihood in our Black Sea region. In about a week or so, the nut harvest will begin, starting to gather, but there's still, unfortunately, no recollateral forecast, no explanation for the price. The Black Sea manufacturer, the nut maker, is now reluctant to enter the garden, which is completely doomed and will begin the harvest these days. We're talking about a product that deals with 8 million people, which directly supports 500,000 people. We're talking about a product that makes $3.5 billion in foreign currency in this country, with a significant export income, even on days when it needs 70 cents. What did the Black Sea man, the nut maker, do to this government? What did this government do to punish the nut maker? The government gets the most votes on the beach when it's looked at, the AKP gets the most votes. The nut maker is loyal, but the government is not loyal to the nut maker.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0049par0220	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0048par0222	Right now, there's no telling how much the nut-picker will get, how much the manufacturer will give, how much it'll be harvested, and now there's desperation. Unfortunately, the manufacturer who came from out of the country, who came from abroad, who came to the garden with great joy and enthusiasm during the nut harvest, is broken down. Please hear this cry, take care of the nut maker. The nut maker is now a victim and is on the verge of not entering the garden. So let TMO explain it if it's going to go on the market, so if there's going to be a price, let it be known now. There's a Department of Agriculture a week away from picking nuts, and they still don't have a recluse. We're celebrating the Minister, and we've served with him in the past. He may be new to the mission, but he needs to be dealt with right away and taken care of by the nut maker. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0050par0226	Thank you. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0051par0229	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, on the 1st anniversary of his death, I won't be able to pass the memory of Halil Inalcık Hodja, God rest his soul. He was a scientist who made significant contributions to Ottoman-Turkish history, leaving important works in the history of civilization, both in political and economic matters and in cultural matters. Information is also coming about the position of Israel on one of the most sacred sites of Muslims towards the Masjidi Aksa (Muslims), Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is our President, as well as our government's initiatives and international community's calls continue, and that Israel has decided today to remove the metal barriers in the mosque Aksa (Muslims) and that the removal has begun. We said yesterday that his extradition to the situation before July 14th was important for both human history and freedom of faith, and that we were on the side of Palestine's righteous cause. It is not acceptable to treat our Palestinian brothers as terrorists who have come to pray with metal detectors placed at the entrances of the Mascidi Aksa, on the basis of the counterterrorism. Other than that, this week, we started the Civil Code negotiations as of yesterday. We would like to express in particular that we have never accepted this perception... that the Civil Code is an important, silent constitutional document, considered a silent constitution, which regulates the working procedures and forms of the House. In this sense, the changes made here, especially in the conditions of the very rapid legislature, the world conjunctive, especially given the situation that our country is in, on the contrary, is a key text that regulates the determination of rights to the end, with the Interior Charter.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0052par0233	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0051par0234	We would like to express in particular that we do not accept the rhetoric of perception, that we support democratic politics very strongly on every platform at every opportunity. In addition to the constitutional amendment after April 16th, we took a very important democratic step in the sense that the tradesman, the merchant, the voice of each section could be announced even more. The Civil Code includes an important change and arrangement, especially in order to ensure that Parliament's work can be much faster, more efficient, and more efficient. I'd like to point out in particular. Other than that, information has just come in that an assassination attempt on our trustee has been prevented in Hakkari. Terrorists have been captured here, which has been identified as terrorists who have already martyred our soldiers. I'd like to point out in particular that Turkey has declared an State of Emergency in the wake of its July 15, 2016 occupation attempt, and for 40 years this country, which has been fighting the PKK's terrorist organization and its derivatives...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0052par0237	Let's get it done, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0051par0238	...to preserve unity and unity, and to this day, many of the sons of his country, including July 15th, have been martyred. And after that, it seems that he will continue to give -- in view of the attacks -- but it is clear that we do not have much land to give to others. In this sense, national and domestic... it is our greatest hope that there will be no cracks in the fight against those who actually support terrorism in parliament, who are the spokesman for the terrorist organization. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0052par0240	Thank you. We, the Court of Parliament, remember the 24th-century Republican People's Party Samsun MP Ihsan Kalkavan (Ihsan Kalkavan) once again. May his place be in heaven. My condolences to his family, his relatives, and the Republican People's Party. Again, I'd like to remember our teacher Halil Inalcık here once again on the 1st anniversary of his passing. So, we move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the continuing effects of asbestos used in different occupations before being banned by the rural asbestos. 02/03/2016 As it is known, asbestos has been the most common industrial intermediary material since last century. Besides, it's been known for its negative effects on human health, and almost all the world has focused on asbestos with great interest and cost. Asbestos, in most of the world's countries, in many businesses, as heat preserves and inflammable materials on the walls of fire furnaces and boilers and incinerators, insulation of electrical lines, insulation of wires, insulation of heat and water-resistant fabrics, in the production of gas masks, instructs of cars, trains, insults, incinerators, incinerators of burning gloves, as a contributor for cement industry, roofing materials such as ethernites, as roofs and walling materials, in the flooring materials such as parks and Marleys, in the glues, in the heating caps, in the pipes of the pipes, such as pipes, in the heating, in the heating of the furnaces, incresulatories of the furnaces, incinerators of the furnaces, in the ovens, in the ovens, in the ovens, in the ovens. Asbestos, with such intense use space, can cause permanent damage to the pulmonary and pulmonary membrane (plevra) tumors, ▪mezotylotyoma, and lung cancer. These problems are common in contact environments with asbestos, with sufficient amount and time. Over the next 30 years, there has been great concern over the high probability that 500,000 people will die due to cancer development, depending on industrial asbestos contact in developed countries. Asbestos contact in Turkey is an important public health issue. However, much different from developed countries, asbestos contact in Turkey is happening in industrial areas as well as mostly in rural areas, and related diseases are more common in rural people. The inhabitants of the countryside used asbestos soil in the soil around them asbestos for the properties of heat and water insulation, coverings on the roofs of houses, plaster on their walls, painting. This contact in the countryside continues to be reduced. In Turkey, information on the results of professional asbestos contact is very limited. In Turkey, between 1983 and 1993, 310,748 tonnes were imported at least 471,000 tonnes of asbestos in 1993-1995, 60,691 tons between 1995 and 2005. Production is about 10 percent of that number. Thus, from 1983 to 2010, asbestos use was a great potential for 500,000 tons of asbestos disease, which was used until the exact year 2010, when it was banned. In regard to the products used by this amount, employees will be in contact with asbestos for at least the next 30 or 40 years. Therefore, it is vitally important to investigate what measures should be taken to avoid the dangers of asbestos. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In particular in Van, the reasons for the power shortages in the provinces covered by the Van Lake Electric Distribution Inc (VEDAŞ), I propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be launched under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the necessary measures and policies for the removal of these effects on the tradesmen and all citizens. 1) Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan [[Van]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] In the developing world, electricity has become as essential as water to sustain our daily life under the influence of technology. If we say that electricity is one of the basic rights and is one of the essential things to sustain our lives, we're not exaggerating. However, as in all Turkey over the past decade, there have been significant increases in electrical failures and cuts since the privatisation of the power distribution business in Van and around it. As a result of the tender by the Privatisation Administration in 2013, Van, Bitlis, Mush, Hakkari purchased the Vangölu Electric Dispersal Corporation (VEDAŞ) for $118m. Van, Bitlis, Hakakari and Mush have distributed energy under the license of 3,829,628,862 kilowatts, serving 2,082,470 populations and 485,318 subscribers in 43,492 square kilometers in the area covering the provinces of Hakkari and Mush. But the blackouts across Van suggest that this energy is a problem in distribution and that this privatisation is not in the interest of the province of Van. There is a serious electrical problem due to problems with electricity distribution in Van and its districts. Our citizens in Van's central and districts have come to a standstill with unscheduled, short or long-term blackouts that have become daily routine. Electricity cuts also bring the heating problem of housing and workplaces, especially in the winter months, as well as the interruption of daily life. The Van economy, damaged by the restart of the conflicting process, has also been hit by power cuts. Even computers can't be opened because of the voltage change, and electrical devices are often malfunctioning. No matter what industry he worked in, the tradesman was unable to do business because of the shortages almost every day, and he lost his clients. As a matter of fact, the president of the Van Employers and Artists' Chamber Association listed the failures and blackouts of power due to the old or incapacity of the domestic distribution network and the closing of the 668 tradesmen in recent months. The problems with the power failures and blackouts in the Van province have been summarized above. While the electricity distribution service is privatised, it is the responsibility of public institutions to make the necessary audits to address the negative impact this privatisation has on society. I would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened by the TBMM to investigate the victims of power cuts, especially in the area of the duty and authority of VADAS, in particular in the province of Van, and to determine the necessary measures and policies for the removal of this victim. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the issues of women refugees and asylum seekers in Turkey and the necessary measures and policies necessary to address these problems, I propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan [[Van]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNMYK), 4,815,360 people have thus far been sheltered in neighbouring countries, fleeing the conflict in Syria. The same database shows that 2,715,789 Syrian refugees were recorded by Turkish authorities. This makes Turkey the largest refugee country in the world. Turkey has always been an important migration centre for people who have fled from their country's oppression and persecution, even though the immigration flow for Turkey has increased especially since April 2011 and has attracted attention. According to UNMYK statistics dated January 31, 2016, there are 253,952 asylum seekers and refugees in our country, except for the Syrians. As we assess the migration moves towards Turkey, we should also remember that this issue consists only of people registered to the UNMYK and that there are a large number of undocumented residents. Information provided by the United Nations reveals that women are half the refugees from both Syria and other countries who come to our country. So even if we only consider the numbers above, it's possible to say that about 1.5 million women have fled from oppression, persecution, and violence in their country to Turkey. The focus of immigration policies in Turkey on Syrian refugees since 2011 makes the problems of other groups invisible. However, the diversity of each refugee group and refugee group is also ignored, and refugees are considered a whole. However, reports of NGOs, such as UNMYK, show that at every stage of their journey, during conflict and before escape, there is a more special situation in the refugee country, during return and deployment, in the process of integration than in the men. In addition to all the reasons for emigration for women, refugees and other refugees, they also have to leave their country and take refuge in another country to avoid social gender-based discrimination and persecution and oppression, mainly because they are women. Similarly, social gender problems can occur in the countries where they migrate. For example, domestic violence, lack of access to justice, lack of access to services because they do not speak Turkish and are not translated in their own language, and incarceration is at the top of problems facing refugee women in Turkey. Sexual violence, abuse and harassment, which women have been exposed to during the journey, continues to pose a risk for refugee and refugee women in Turkey as well. These problems are often expressed by refugees who work in the area where public institutions and charities fail to protect women refugees. Sadly, the inadequacy of the camps, the lack of human dignity in the send-back centers, the lack of sufficient services and help for those who try to live outside satellite cities or cities on their own grounds outside the camp, strengthens these claims of failure. In short, it is possible to say that the registration and placement process in Turkey and services for refugees and asylum seekers are insensitive to social gender. Above, only part of the problems facing refugee women in Turkey could be provided. Given the fact that refugee women need different and special protection than male refugees, I would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened by the TBMM to determine the measures and policies necessary to address the problems of women refugees and asylum seekers in Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 25/7/2017 (today), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Council of Constitutional and Justice Commissions Membership 489 ranked in Articles of Laws and Proposals and Other Commissions from the Commissions, shall take the 1st place of this section; the Council of Constitution and Justice Commission Report of 493 rows distributed; and the Commission's Commission Report of Compulsion of the Constitution and Justice Commissions, which shall be distributed in accordance with this order; and the order of other tasks shall be taken into the second place before 48 hours; It's recommended. The first word in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal belongs to Kurıkkale MP Ramadan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0053par0395	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. With our group proposal, we propose that the meeting of the Karma Commission Report on Van MP Tugba Hezer Özturk (in the 489th row of the agenda), and the meeting of the Justice and Constitutional Commission Report (in the first two places) of the agenda, which is 493 places on the agenda. We can, of course, talk about a legal process here. As a result, Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldıldağ, there are also allegations that both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Ministry of Justice, and the Justice Council of Turkey, are serving abroad from their own declarations, that their duties are a political party mission, as well as that they should be allowed to state their health reasons for Faysal Sarıyıldıldil. The Court of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has convened to decide whether they should be allowed to count. As a result, it is understood from the statements of both the Justice Department and the parties that the absence is constant. It has been determined that they did not participate in 47 mergers in the three-month period, especially in the year of the Second Amendment, and that the Civil Code exceeds 5 mergers in one month according to Article 138. As a result, this assessment was contested, and the objection was rejected by the Presidential Court, and the Civil Code 138 referred the report linking the relevant reports and objections of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Supreme Assembly Court to the Commission, in accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution. Karma Commission, you know, for the Constitution and the Justice Commission. The Constitution and the Justice Commission discussed, negotiated, and compiled a report under the same law. Here, one of these reports has the number of 489 rows and the other has the number of 493 rows. The report of the Presidential Court and the report of the Karma Commission have reached the conclusion and has been submitted to the General Assembly. As of today, political party groups in Turkey's Grand National Assembly will assess this issue, political party groups and the General Assembly will address it. Of course, it's the General Assembly's decision, and we think that in the General Assembly, lawmakers within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will come to the conclusion of a decision that will be made by 276 lawmakers, most of the time. I submit this issue in group recommendations from the General Assembly, taking Justice and Constitutional Commission Reports 489 and 493 from the Karma Commission in the first and second place on the agenda. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0054par0401	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to the Manisa MP Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0055par0405	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're looking at one of the endless group proposals of the Justice and Development Party. They run the House just like they run the country. Daily policies, taking shapes in the wind's direction, standing upright, bowing, bending when the wind blows hard, attacking on the other side when the wind stops, and the Parliament is led just as the country is led. No one knows what to do tomorrow. If there's anyone at the Justice and Development Party who has an opinion on what to do, other than the Civil Code Change in Congress this week, let's bring him in. Mr. Ramadan Can is carrying out a difficult task. To come here and explain the text you've been given, to defend, especially in a group of 317 people -- let's say 5, 7, 8, 11 to the Justice and Development Party MP -- so he chooses citizens, he sends them, not even 5 percent to the living room. We spoke yesterday, and he's already lost his ability to govern. Today, the president of the Justice and Development Party, who he called "metal fatigue" before, brings conflict, conflict with the soul, jihad disputes to a place within the party, he says, "Look into the inner war before you win the war outside." So we've spent years fighting so that these men can be ministers, who are in charge of the cabinet change, who think they deserve a job, who express their dissatisfaction? For years, shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up in every assignment, what's going to happen to us? There's a brotherhood law between us. I'll cut off your arm even if it's my brother who says and steals. As a result of saying that, his political head is cut off, and his deputies in his staff are pushed, pushed and isolated. They don't come here to stay out of sight. They're not coming, but it's sad that today we'll reduce the immunity of those who didn't come. Now, a party with a name of justice knows that a rule, a law, a code, a rule of law, and a member of the law must be applied equally to all, he says, standing behind it. Now, today, you're going to talk about ending the MPs because of the absence of two MPs. Has anyone seen Ahmet Davutoglu continue in parliament, the former Prime Minister? Has anyone seen your team continue with the House? You create the fact that the team you took out of office, isolated, feared to say hello, but who stood in line when you were in power, who had the power, who had been hailed, who had been complimented on them, didn't come here today, but you apply a rule to the opposition party MPs that you didn't apply to someone who didn't come here except vote in the Constitutional talks. Where is equality in front of the law, and where is the principle of equality in the Constitution? It's all a negative note in your political history, a black mark, and it's an earmark to the voters. I'll fight corruption, poverty, bans. I'll fight corruption. I'll say, "It's a country that raises its income inequality by 25 per cent, it's a country that has increased its income inequality by 25 per cent, it's the highest, it's the richest, it's the poorest, it's the highest, it's the poorest, it's the highest, it's the highest, it's the highest, it's the poorest, it's an 8.5 per cent, we'll fight with the law. We'll use it in every square inch of every square inch you know, we'll use it in the state, just twenty days after you said, we've done the first time you've done it in order to eliminate the OHALHALHALHALHAN as you's in order to remove it. You're running this country so much that we've criticised Mr. Davutoglu politically, that it's not our job to deal with people who are politically withdrawn, who are exhausted, but we have to tell you something from him: when it comes to people who sit down when it suits them, they're the nightingale. So, when the day comes when you sit down... of course, you have a guarantee for everyone if you have a Republican People's Party, just as the victims of the past need justice today, as the oppressors of the past need justice, and they have the right to justice, and they have the right to a fair trial, there will come a day when the CHP will defend us too. But if you sit down and sit down tomorrow, you won't hear the voices, no matter how beautiful you sound. And I have to tell you very clearly that today, the generation you're trying to raise, the training you've given him... Mr. President told me last week, just before I left, I looked at your website, and it's standing right there. The AK PARTI Academy of Politics is also available as the 10th Period Lesson Notes, electronic books, which you have published and distributed, and what Mr. Tanel Demirel says there -- what you are doing today -- the origin of your politics must be seen in the scope of physics, where he has received reference, and what he has received from the next generation of politicians, and he said to me last week, look at the work you've been trying to improve the quality of your current staff -- he also said: politics isn't only democratically done, and we have to look at the opposition that can prevent you from carrying out your own policies. It's obvious that those who take this course have learned the lesson, that you have to imprison the opposition, that you have to suppress it in every way, that you have to surround it, that you have to silence it. Now that you've learned the lesson, and you're raising a generation of those who are spiteful and religious, if that's what the family thinks about raising the child, if the child's consent, no one comes between the slave and God, it's not part of a political party's directive. But if you're raising a spiteful generation, you're digging your own well, all of us, and that's something to see. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, of course, the notes of this political academy, aside from what this political academy says, what they teach, there's one fact that we need to focus on. It's obvious that you care about education within the party, but it's obvious what you're doing. The education system in Turkey, a jihadist education system, is a single-referencing educational system. We, the Republican People's Party, against the education system, against which all their students and families are targeted from one religion, from one religion, from one religion, from one belief, from Etnisity, not from the pluralist, from the one type, but from which the majority is trying to get them through a tornado that we, as the Republican People's Party, as a political party that aims to overtake them in science, in technology, and democracy, will completely eliminate the modern system of education, after which Ataturk has been set in motion, we will be able to bring it into life, not to create its own political material. Speaking of education, speaking of culture, Halil Inalcık, the one we lost this day last year and the name Halil İralcık is a fully grown teacher with the republic's resources. I thank you all for the kind of science and knowledge that gives the republic his rights and the rights. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0056par0417	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0057par0418	Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0056par0419	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0057par0420	He made statements in his speech earlier that would have to be answered, which would have been a place for taunting.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0058par0421	What is it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0056par0422	What did Mr. Inceöz say?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0057par0423	A few moments ago, our group was accused of not knowing what they were doing, and yesterday the group made a suggestion, giving them a new group proposal, saying things like that. You have to answer them.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0058par0424	Isn't that a criticism?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0056par0425	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0430	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, first of all, should be noted that these plans for the work of the House were made not today, nor yesterday, but a long time ago. Sometimes, of course, in the circumstances our country faces, we have to take different issues, the agenda here, and sometimes the obligation to take them in agreement. It has to be known that before we shut down the House, it was known to everyone that we would open the House on July 15th, and that we would hold the Civil Code talks, that there would be commission work, and that the agenda would be taken after that. Here on this bench are our MPs speaking on that day, our members of the group, our deputy presidents... these are in the transcripts. In fact, the group proposal for today was due tomorrow, but it was agreed to be given today as a result of the talks, to be brought up today. The group we're going to give tomorrow's proposal to hold a vote today... as a result of these mutual negotiations. So, what's the authority doing out here? He doesn't know what he's doing, his agenda isn't clear. I want to make it very clear that we have rejected such words. Of course, the opposition can make statements in that sense, but some facts must not be overlooked by our people, our nation. I'd like to point out that this is a very ordinary statement to our fellow lawmakers, who are looking into our party. I want to make it very clear to you that we need to deal with ourselves and what we're going to do with our calendar and the reality of our country, and that we expect a proposed opposition to solutions to problems. Now, while we're comparing our congressman friends here, I would like to point out that it's very unfortunate to compare this with the MPs we're going to be interviewing today, which we're going to be having a little bit later. When we look at these, one of them attended the terrorist's funeral, the other gave the Turkish nation, the saint Turkish nation, a martyr so that 780,000 square miles can stay together, and looked into the eyes of our nation, which has been fighting the PKK for 40 years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish my words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0060par0436	Complete, please, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0437	The PKK will choke you with its saliva. In this sense, they have left the country in the process of using those statements and removing immunitys, both of which are now lawmakers who are not within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, and have been separated from the General Assembly work for a long time, possibly if they have already come, but will already walk in their rights, so they prefer to stay out of the country behind those statements.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0061par0438	I wonder if he went to Pennsylvania and covered his head.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0439	Look, don't bring it up every time you're hurt.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0061par0440	It's just that nothing happens when you're hurt!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0441	Look, our position is very clear, before December 17th and 25th, and after that, you can't take it personally with cheap remarks like that.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0061par0442	You were good out there! You were a claw!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0443	I'm going through all of this in that sense, and I'm saying that the comments here should be evaluated at this minimum, and that the talks that we're going to be interviewing later are planned a long time ago.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0061par0444	What did you plan to go to Pennsylvania?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0059par0445	...again, the need to give such a speech in the sense that both our fellow lawmakers and the public will be informed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0061par0448	Were you expecting an Iqbal?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0449	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0063par0450	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0452	I don't need to explain. Do you want me to explain why?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0063par0453	Tell me.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0454	Don't tease, don't tease.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0063par0455	Okay, here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0457	Now, if we were to look at the photographs taken by Mr. İlknur Eyüsöz in Pennsylvania and say that he is a member of the terrorist organization. And how, of course, can you compare it to our representatives? I mean, is it possible? Our deputies were absent, and he was a member of a terrorist organization. Are you a superior judge? I've said this many times, which one of you is the supreme judge?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0064par0458	Their testimony is very clear.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0459	Which one of you is the court? Then close the courts! Then close the courts!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0065par0460	Judge, you are the prosecutor!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0461	There's no need to judge, you're judging here. It's already been discussed, and it's being brought in tomorrow, and it's being brought in today. If we had said no, wouldn't you have brought it? Aren't you doing the majority justice in this House? It's always what you call power, isn't it? But we don't make these accusations about anyone without a trial, without a conviction. We're not on the same level as you. You're going to get out of there, you're going to get out of there, you're going to get out of there, you're going to talk about our MPs, you're going to talk about academics, you're going to throw out about the students, you're going to put yourself in charge of everyone, you're going to put yourself in charge of the judge, and then you're going to sit in your seat. That's not true! We don't let anyone say that, we don't tolerate it. That's what you should know. We follow a peaceful policy, but there is a limit to our patience. You're making a person like me scream out of here, and that's because of you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0066par0462	It doesn't suit you. Don't yell like that.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0062par0463	Speak behind your words, and speak in a manner that protects your past.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0067par0465	Don't doubt it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0068par0469	In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the second word in favour of Bilecik MP Halil Eldemir (Keldemir) is in favour of the ruling party's proposal.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0069par0470	Mr. President, Mr. President, I'm just trying to get him to file a report...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0068par0471	It's not over, I haven't closed the combination. Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0070par0474	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our group's proposal under the 19th Amendment of our AK PARTY Group. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. Last night, after midnight, at 01.42, as you all know, we were discussing our proposal for a Change in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 492. We've finished our talks on the whole. And three of our party groups have given their speeches about the first chapter. Now, today's group proposal is about the introduction of the two statements sent by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which are listed in 489 and 493 rows. I would like to express in particular that this proposal, which we gave in accordance with the Civil Code, is in the discretion of the General Assembly. My fellow lawmakers, at the beginning of today's merger, the Republican People's Party Bilcik MP, Mr. Yasar Charter, gave a speech here at the top of the agenda. I especially thank him for bringing Bilecik to the agenda, but I felt the need to make a correction on one matter. I'd like to say a few words about that, too. The minister visits to our province of Bilecik are not a protocol visit. If we make such an assessment, it would be a mistake and an injustice. Each of the seven ministers who have arrived in the past year or so have closely followed the issues related to their investments, related to their ministry's Bilicik. When our Minister of Forests and Water Affairs came to Bilecik, both State Waterworks and National Parks, the Director of Forest General, and the Meteorological Directorate had co-ordinated, co-ordinating meetings, and assessed investments. When our Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications arrived, he also followed the ongoing land roads investment in Bilicik, as well as the issues related to investments that our fellow citizens have been waiting for. In this regard, Bilek is now a construction site in terms of land roads investments. And here he gives good tidings of our way between the willow and the willow. A long trial process has occurred, as our member of parliament has stated, in our way of Yenişehir, which connects the Bilecik to Bursa, but at the moment, the work continues at its full speed. In their investment in the Ministry of Health, the foundation of our Bilecik State Hospital has been laid. Our Bilek State Hospital continues at its full speed. We just don't get enough of it. In front of us, we have implementation projects in both our government hospital and our government hospital. I'm trying to attend all of our ministers' meetings on Bilekik visits and issues on these issues, and I'm going to try to attend from now on if our legislative activities don't continue in parliament. I hope, if our deputy is available, if he supports these visits himself, if he shows up, we can all see what our ministers have done for Bilici. I, the group we gave according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, present our proposal to the General Assembly, and salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0071par0483	Thank you. Mr. Can, please, you have something to say.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0072par0485	Mr. President, in fact, he was bullied by the CHP group's deputy president.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0073par0486	What did I pick on?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0072par0487	I won't take any promises from you, I want him on the record. I'm telling him my regrets, and I don't think it's right for him. We're having a conversation here, one at a time. I'm a lawyer, and we'd like to contribute to the Parliamental work as much as we can. Besides, if the AK PARTY executives had any instructions for us, if they'd just hand us something, we wouldn't be bothered to read it. We had something in our own vocabulary, so I made a legal assessment. I offer my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0074par0491	Ramadan Can is a person, the whole General Assembly knows, and most of all, Mr. Special Knows. He didn't mean it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0075par0492	Mr. President, I'll take a look at the report, but you're being handed something, reading it. I didn't say that. If that's how it's understood, we're taking it back. I also respect the contribution that Ramadan Can could have made to his group. I wish everyone would continue with the House like him.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0074par0493	Thank you. Thank you. The second and final speaker against the Justice and Development Party Group proposal is Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0076par0497	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, have brought up a group of proposals for the agenda, AKP. The two of our MPs have been asked to discuss the initial reduction of their parliamentary position due to a lack of continuity. Just now, while the AKP's deputy group leader was speaking here, he also put aside the subject of the proceedings, which went directly to court. In a moment, while these proceedings are being discussed, two dear friends of ours will destroy all of these claims, and I won't say much about it. Sırrı Sırrıyya Leader and Bilal Danış Beştaş will use their right to defend these proceedings in the name of our representatives, and they will tell you how unfair, unresponsive and even ugly these allegations are, if you are in the General Assembly; and if you are not, they will tell the public and our people in the best way, and I will make it clear to them now. In fact, debates about the Civil Charter continue at the same time, and we are trying to explain that the arrangements that were brought there were a complete dictatorship, even more than that, Fascism regulations. Sometimes we do comparisons. These comparisons seem to be disturbing the AKP Group. Yesterday, I told you that only Israel had the same arrangement that was meant to be brought here, now, in the Civil Code. Yes, there's a right-wing racist block in Israel, in power, and they've adopted a law that stipulates that MPs' parliamentary power be reduced simply because they've expressed their opinion. For two reasons, the law orders to reduce MPs' representation by voting on the general council before immunity is lifted. What are the two reasons? To provoke racism against the state of Israel and to support the armed struggle against the state of Israel. These are very familiar arguments, aren't they? If you're uncomfortable with these comparisons, I suggest you don't follow those mentalitys here, don't do what those powers do. If you do, we'll hold you a mirror here, if you have a face, if you can't look, if you can't, bow your heads. Why are these arrangements here? There are two important reasons. You know, there are 20 per cent Arab minorities living in Israel, Israeli citizens, and they are participating in the elections. They formed parties, and in the latest election, they won 13 MPs with a unified list, entering the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament. It's a very effective opposition from Arab lawmakers there, but the racist right-wing power is very uncomfortable with that. For example, three MPs from one of the parties in this bloc visited three Arab teenagers who were wrongfully killed by Israeli security forces, and went to offer their families their condolences. They didn't just visit, they also held a moment of silence. Netanyahu came out, started a lynching campaign against them, and he said: "These are terrorists, terrorists have no place in parliament." Arab lawmakers from the united list have another attempt at honesty and courage to embarrass you. What did they do? They said: "All Israeli soldiers who participated in the operation of Mavi Marmara are murderers." They also said: "The pilots who used the Israeli army planes that were dropping bombs on Gaza are terrorists. ▪ Netanyahu went mad and immediately wanted to bring this campaign to an conclusion, and a high court was sued to shut down the Balat Party. The Supreme Court said: "They're using their political rights, so I won't close the party." He refused to close the case, but Netanyahu was not getting cold inside, he said: "No, we will not keep terrorists in this parliament. They can't support terrorist activities against the state of Israel by taking money from the state. The Israeli President warned Netanyahu. He said: "Don't do it. If you make such a law, there is only one thing: you follow racist policy against the Arab minority. The left parties in Israel also opposed it, and they said: "There is only one reason why this is to convert racial mentality into law. There was a strong reaction, but the racist right bloc had a sufficient majority in the Israeli Parliament, so they passed it. Of course, they wanted to reduce Arab lawmakers' rights with other penalties until they passed this law. For example, they've issued temporary extraction sentences in two months. Why? For defending the rights of a oppressed people. And when they stood up for the rights of a people who were oppressed, what did they label them with? Terroristism. That is what you used to do. You follow the mindset of Israel's racist and right-wing cruel rule. Go, look, there are countless TOMAs in Diyarbakir today who are doing a peaceful act on behalf of democratic politics, surrounded by fences. The other day, here at Güven Park, the police took custody of the demonstrators by breaking their arms. How is that any different from what the Israeli police did to the Arabs in Israel? The practices of the right-wing racist power of this power of the Masjid-i Aksa are unjust, cruel, but the legitimacy of opposing them is only for those who oppose persecution everywhere. Please, tell your government, and consider this warning, and do not condemn this persecution of Israel in the mosque of Aksa, but when you condemn it, Israel does it even more because a tyrant has no right to teach me. Is he wrong? So let not the wrong-doers blame one another, but whosoever seeketh justice for the wrong-doers, and whosoever seeketh justice for all, he hath the right to do wrong everywhere. So we have to hold this mirror for you, dear friends. We will continue this crisis of conscience and justice, and we will follow democratic politics to the end, just as the Arab MPs in Israel did, and we will insist on democratic politics. Why, then, do you not ask yourselves, why is Israel so cruel? Just because there's cruelty in his genes, racist governments like Netanyahu? No, they're cruel because they reject a peaceful, democratic, egalitarian solution to the Palestinian problem. Any government that doesn't follow these policies is cruel. Maybe he'll be more racist than he is, maybe he'll be more cheeky than he'll ever be, reckless. This is why the right hand of Israel's right handmen, and the recklessness of the racists in Israel, have increased the persecution of the Palestinian people, because they have constantly drowned democratic politics on behalf of the Palestinian people. The AKP is doing the same thing. If you don't accept a democratic, peaceful, egalitarian solution, if you insist on war policies, if you insist on persecution in prohibitions, your future is the racist right-wing mentality in Israel, where you're now pouring great anger. But against him all the Democrats and the people of conscience, the people of the Arab people and the people of Palestine, we are here with all the people of conscience to resist your policies to the end. The end of the wrong-doers is the same, and the end of the wrong-doers is bound to be judged. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0077par0503	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0078par0506	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit01spe0077par0507	There's a roll call before the Justice and Development Party Group Proposal to your votes, and we'll make that request first. Mr. Engin, Mr. Enriyet, Mr. Erol, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Ilgezdi, Mr. Bezeler, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Kayüşoğlu, Mr. Demir, Mr. Akaydım, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Koç, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Arik, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bachelor, Mr. Tuncer. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 118th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/275) I move that our main Law Proposal, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. Yours truly. On the motion, the bidder is İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin brought the material prepared in a roll by Tanrıkulu to the parliament stand]] Mr. Godkulu, the clock is ticking, but I turned on the microphone.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0079par0025	Mr. President, there's no regulations, there's no political ethics, what in God's name is this?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0026	Look, guys, let's just keep our heads down.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0079par0027	Let him hold a press conference, let's see him there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0028	It's like this, not a theater area.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0079par0029	It's the best picture of how right the Civil Code is. Start the clock, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0031	Your Holiness, look, I've opened your time, your appreciation, don't speak.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0079par0032	It's been five minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0033	Look, this doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0080par0034	Oh, is this any smart guy stuff?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0079par0035	You're a grown man, look at you!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0077par0036	This isn't a playroom; this is a place to preserve seriousness, please...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0081par0037	Mr. President, this is not acceptable. Please don't let this happen.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0082par0038	What council did this happen?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0083par0039	Mr. President, we used to do this in middle school.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit02spe0084par0040	Dear Godkulu... Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0084par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 118th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Article 37 of the Civil Code, the motion was held in the talks. In turn, Istanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu is the owner of the proposal. But, members of lawmakers, this image is not a pretty sight, so I'm starting the clock with my wish that things like this don't happen again. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0085par0007	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a pledge under Article 37 of the Civil Code, and I salute you all. Dear friends, at the beginning of this period, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, I began to discuss my legal proposals with the General Assembly. I've talked to these law proposals 17 times in the past period. Before today, I spoke for eighty-five or 90 minutes, and all the friends who wanted to have used that right, including the opposition parties. As a matter of fact, it is the right of the opposition to make an offer in Article 37 of the Civil Code. So what ruling party MP has proposed a law that hasn't been discussed? He must have come as a government bill. We've raised ten minutes on Tuesdays to add five minutes, five minutes to the problems of different parts of society that you don't see with the same right that the Civil Code has given us, but I know that our talks have disturbed the majority of the Justice and Development Party. Why did it bother you? The content of the law, the content that corresponds to the agenda... And when you raise your hand here, I believe that a lot of MPs, too, raised their hand against their will, about the agenda.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0086par0009	No, we all raised our hands willingly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0085par0010	For example, that Diyarbakır Prison is a museum. I brought the law proposal for Diyarbakır Prison to be a museum here, brought it here on September 24th, but the vote was rejected. Or Madımak was rejected again as a museum of shame. Or he refused to let them become temples. The problems with subcontractors have been rejected. The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations has been rejected. As a majority here, you've raised your hand to all of this. Look, here's a list. He was coming, but you didn't want these samples to be discussed in this Parliament. That's why I rolled up the law proposals I made and brought them here. You don't want us to talk anymore. Look, you have nothing to do with this agenda because it's not coming to you. Naturally, these problems don't come to you, they're more to us. Why would this contractor come to you? The architect of the subcontractor is the Justice and Development Party. It won't come to you, but it's coming to us.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0087par0012	He's coming to us.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0085par0013	Or a statute of limitations on torture cases. Is he coming to you? No, it's not, it's coming back to us.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0088par0014	It's coming to us, of course.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0085par0015	We've been through all this here. My dear friends, look, if these sections don't use this bench in this Parliament, this Parliament will cease to be Parliament, that's for sure. Look, this may not be legal, but we need to talk here. But you're lowering the voice of the opposition in terms of this amendment to the Civil Code. Second of all, you're preventing anyone from talking about anything other than what you want. You're saying that there are limits that we draw, and that's the limits that you can't talk about other than that. You can talk all we want. We'll set the agenda. The opposition can't speak here, the MPs can't, except on our agenda. Look, it's a right given to lawmakers, so why go to group management? Can't I or any congressman bring up an offer outside the group administration? And how can you say that, just once, how can you say that? It's all against parliamentary democracy, pluralism. And you're in the spirit of this era, you go, you don't look back, you don't look left and you're doing it all wrong. To draw attention to this error, I asked you to see this effort. There were a lot of law proposals waiting to be discussed here, and you didn't say yes last semester, and you weren't going to say yes this semester, but why do you feel uncomfortable that our citizens are being talked about, that our citizens are hearing about this, that their own problems are being expressed on this stand? Ten minutes a week, just ten minutes. It didn't get any longer, there was no debate, but you were uncomfortable from time to time. Isn't that the essence of democracy, not to tolerate, to tolerate opposition? But, look, this insufferability is taking you somewhere else; it's called autocratic, it's called fascism, it's moving fast here, Turkey, you don't see it. Turkey is rolling down a cliff, not on the edge of a cliff. Before we find the bottom of the cliff, we still have that possibility, still, if you get a little bit of yourself as a congressman... look, we're working on these, we're doing questions, we're proposing research, we're offering legislation, what are you doing, do you have a question proposal, do you have a research proposal? I know the offers you get, the job chase -- right, you can follow -- other jobs, I don't want to say, no teasing, but you know what's going on, what's being talked about.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0089par0019	Don't be suspicious, if you know something, if you know something, say it, don't slander, don't accuse people here; you don't have that right, you don't have that right.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0085par0020	I'll tell you, it's coupons, land pursuit, auction pursuit. I didn't want to say it, you made me say it. You're doing this, and we're doing this, dear friends; don't worry about it, these things need to be talked about here, so that this Parliament can be the voice of everyone. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0090par0023	This doesn't look like your motion picture, it looks like your clerk's communication bill.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0091par0024	Did you pay for the photocopies out of your pocket?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0092par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0093par0026	Just a second, I promise.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0094par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0093par0030	Congressmans, the working order of our General Assembly is clear, we have internal regulations and regulations. So, please, let's give up actions that do not suit the seriousness, dignity, weight, or metaphor of the House and disrupt the general council's working order. Let's never repeat such acts again. This Parliament is the House of all of us, as lawmakers and all of the political parties, together we must protect the reputation of the House. So let's please refrain from this kind of behavior and never repeat it again. Such attempts, in this sense, also show us once again how justified the change in the Civil Code is. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0094par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0093par0034	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0094par0035	As we speak here, Mr. Godkulu said, "We're making a question motion, we're making a research motion, you're pursuing a job, you're following a tender."
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0093par0036	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not make a new mess.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0094par0040	Mr. President, dear friends, it is our duty to follow the work of others. But if Mr. Sezgin Godkulu is referring to a hint that will implicate us, I strongly forbid him from saying that, it is our right to ask him to come in here and explain who's following what he says is what he's doing here. It's not the right attitude to leave such things out in the open; it's one. Second: where Parliament is spoken. The floor is where the speech is being held. If you use the platform in a way that trumps speaking, in a way that comes out of the media, in a way that's scandalous, you make your language insignificant, your expression trivial. My language, my expression, is not enough, I use these images to convey my message to others... (AK PARTI rows) If such understanding prevails, this place, the place where the language should be used, the place where the children in elementary schools are told about themselves through images, shapes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Godkulu, thank God he's got a tongue, he says he's gonna say it, and I don't think he needs them. It's our job to protect the right to speak on that bench, and it's yours. This is where the speech is being made, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0095par0045	I did.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0094par0046	But your attitude will be understood by a very large environment, which is not true, and it will not abide by the rules of this bench. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0049	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0097par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0098par0051	Let's just file a report.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0052	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0097par0053	Mr. President, I know where the show is going to be. And until today, I've only used this chair as a parliamentary speaker, within the scope of legislature activity, and I've never used it for anything other than that, and the whole Parliament knows it. But today, a right that I have earned under this Civil Code, the rights of all Parliaments are being restricted, my rights and the rights of my fellow lawmakers are being restricted. That's why I gave you this visual. The law offers all this, it's my own work. I won't be able to talk to you the rest of the time. That's why I wanted everyone to see it here. Because these friends of ours, unfortunately, majority lawmakers don't write proposals, unfortunately, they don't need them because the government is writing them down. But we're doing it, and now we're being restricted. So I said, in what way have we done this, that these things may be seen? Otherwise, I don't have any communicable opinions about any of my fellow congressmen, but I've expressed a general opinion here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0056	It's in the transcripts, Your Holiness.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0099par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0058	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0099par0061	Mr. President, I'd like to rephrase a situation in which you've just expressed the presence of the House. Our Co-Chair, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, our deputies, who cannot participate in the General Assembly's discussions on the proposal for amendments to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as they are in prison; Çağlar Demirel, İdris Baluken, Besime Konca, Ayhan Bilgen, Selma Irmak, Gülser Yıldırım, Burcu Çelik, Abdullah Zeydan and Farhat Encu. Their statement is that the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which governs the law of the Constitution, but in particular in Article 80, represent the whole nation, not the region or those who choose themselves. The mandate of the National Assembly of Turkey, which is part of Article 87, is to place, to change, to change, to change, and to exercise the powers prescribed by the Constitution, and to carry out the other provisions of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0064	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0099par0065	In the 61st article of the Civil Charter, which regulates the right to speak in the General Assembly, I shall be given it according to the order of speech, registration, or request. That's why I propose and propose that the talks on the Constitutional Amendment be stopped, our friends say. I wanted to express it. There's one thing, it's very important; his information just came in. In the case of the attack on our Diyarbakır rally on June 5th,
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0068	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0099par0069	...DaEŞ member Burhan Gök has been released today in the case held at the Ankara Western Courthouse. In simple propaganda cases of the people's chosen, there is a suspicion that they will escape. Those who call ISIS have released the members without a single, judicial control. I'd like to present this to the attention of the High Council, the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0096par0071	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Now, on behalf of a member of the Interior Charter 37, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0100par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. So I took the oath according to the Civil Code 37. In his speech, Mr. Godkulu said, "We see and bring things that power does not see; this is being prevented." Indeed, Mr. Godkulu's proposal for this law envisions a change in the 86, 87, and 88th amendments of the City's Finances Act 2464, such as the removal of contributions to expenditures. As you know, some of the municipal services contribute to the expenditures from the neighborhood, and there is a lot of discrimination when these clauses are applied, and that neighborhood is our neighborhood. That street is ours. There are people over there that I am annoyed with. They are treated as things that cause great injustices and unlawfulities. It's a burden on the citizen, and he's being asked to remove it. Look, you don't see this as the ruling party MPs; you see opposition and bring it here, why do you feel uncomfortable about it? The values of my friends, the Justice and Development Party, as time passes in power -- that metal fatigue -- or power. The more the matter goes on, the more transparent it goes away from transparency, controlability, openness, but in everything, not just democracy, human rights, and so on, economics. For example, I've just had a huge reaction to the tender, Mr. Vice President of the group. Look, there's no need to do this, because I think you've seen the Law of Deal over and over again -- I don't know the number -- over 50.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0101par0081	A hundred and change...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0100par0082	You've been through it 100 times, and a lot of things, even though the law is clear, are provided directly through procurement. What's all this? It's that you're afraid of transparency, controlability, what you're doing, whether you're afraid of being known by the opposition or the public. My dear friends, an understanding has grown stronger in you: you choose us as citizens -- you call us nationals -- and so the nation chooses us as we want, so we can't rule as we want. You can't rule, dear friends. If this country is a democratic country, and it has taken as many distances in democracy as it wants, you can't rule as you want. What are you going to lead on? You have to rule according to the law. What we call law, we have a majority, we make everything we want legal, we make it legal. Thus, the nation wanted, and no one had anything to say. This is not law, my friends; this is pluralism. So we have a majority, so everyone thinks the way we want, everybody talks the way we want; we draw boundaries on how to talk to all citizens, even lawmakers, and they have to talk that way. You've come this far. That is the meaning of the amendment to the Civil Code that is now on the agenda of the House. That was the meaning of many of the amendments. You've really strayed from the path you've made, and you're going into dangerous waters, my dear friends. It's not sustainable. So you can't control us, no one can answer to us. Don't say that, my friends, we answer to the nation. Of course you will answer to the nation and you will, sooner or later. Just because we answer to people doesn't mean we don't answer to the courts, the opposition, my dear friends. That's your problem. It's called, and the name of this system that you're building is now getting further and further away from democracy, my friends. You're setting up an authoritarian regime, dear friends. You're becoming a one-type regime, my dear friends. In Turkey, it is not possible for you to establish such a regime in this world of 2017. This leads to Turkey's division, my dear friends. You will think the way we want you to think. You'll talk as much as we want. If you want to talk within the boundaries we draw, there will be no peace in this country, there will be no fighting, there will be serious problems in this country. There may be serious problems in this country. The sentence may not interest you very much. We're in the majority, we'll be fine. You can call us that. No, friends, it happens to all of us, to all of us. He says we should take lessons from what's going on around us, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0102par0086	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the part of the law bill and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. We will begin negotiations with the Commission for the Commission for the Commission for Computation of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey on the grounds of the Union of Turkey's 47th and Constitutional Committee on the basis of the Dissolution in October, November and December 2016 of Van MP Tugba Hezer Ozurk, ranked number 1 (the 47th Amendment in the Union of the General Assembly). Members of parliament will not be asked to represent the government during the talks, as it is a matter of the functioning of parliament. Commission? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 489 rows. The talks on the Commission report will be held according to the 72nd and 138th amendments of the Interior Charter, and the Commission will be promised one member on behalf of political party groups, two members on behalf of individuals. Finally, it will be made a promise to the member of parliament who has been asked to lower his membership within the scope of the right of defence or to a member of parliament who will report to the defence. The deadlines are 20 minutes each for the Commission and political party groups and ten minutes for individuals. For the defense, we won't give it a moment. No words for the bands. The first word for the individuals is from İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0103par0103	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Right now, we're discussing a report from the commission on the dismissal of a member of parliament for the absence of an MP, my dear friends. Now, first, I'd like to point out that if you're really lowering your parliamentary position because of the absence of a member of parliament, then there's a serious follow-up going on here. Lawmakers with other absences need to be identified and brought here in the same way. Oh, it's not for absence, but for other reasons, we're lowering this MP's parliamentary power. If you say so, then you're a participant, you're wrong. We'll tell the precious friends. Look, I don't want to name names, you all know, there are different lawmakers, lawmakers like this from the ruling party, they never come to Congress. Sir, he was a minister in the past, he was a prime minister in the past, he was like this, but as a result, he's a congressman today and he needs to come to the House, and he needs to come to Congress like the MP we're talking about now. This is discrimination, my dear friends, and I need to be clear. What are you accusing this congressman of? How do you blame him? You'll bring him here. If there's a legal process involved, it's my dear friends who will process it. This is a member of parliament that we don't like, or that we don't approve of, which constitutes a crime, which makes us violent, which makes us uncomfortable, so that's why we do it, and that's why we don't do it for the other one, and we know it's our pleasure. As the phrase means, it's really arbitrary, it's really not incompatible with the state of law. My dear friends, if this MP is being demoted here for some other reason, we need to talk about it here. How do you talk about it? If this MP's ability to act as a deputy has been eliminated -- our constitution, our laws have determined this -- our parliament will be identified, determine the law, determine the courts, come to our parliament, and the Parliament will determine that; it will come to us, and we will talk about it, and we will act that way. Turkey was the Grand National Assembly, the Gazi Parliament -- already a veteran, and again a veteran on July 15th -- to a parliament such as this one, a majority party that has ruled Turkey for 15 years, not fit for the Justice and Development Party, not for our democracy. We're going to do something openly, and what we're going to do is we're going to do it: we're going to do it -- I've just expressed it -- something is going to come here at the end of that process, and we're going to look at those files, we're going to be convinced, and we're going to be convinced that this MP is not qualified to be a congressman, and we're going to remove it. It's not the right thing to do. Is this really a job for the Turkish Grand National Assembly, dear friends? Look, we haven't all been new for years, I mean, we've been burying our heads in the sand ever since your time, we don't want to see it; we don't want to see it; we don't want to see it, we can't identify the problems; we can't identify the problems, my dear friends, because we can't identify the problems, we can't find the solution. The issue we're talking about right now is that the issue we're trying to reduce the MP's legislature is actually the Kurdish issue, dear friends. If we hadn't buried our heads in the sand at the time of the Kurdish issue or -- the terrorism issue -- in the matter of terrorism, in fact, if we had seen it, identified it, decided what had to be done together, and had the courage to do so, we wouldn't be doing this right now, we wouldn't be putting the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in this situation. We're lowering this MP's parliamentary position because of the absence. My dear friends, not like this. No one has the right to bring down the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this Grand Assembly, this Veterans Assembly. It's a Kurdish matter, my friends. Turkey's Grand National Assembly did not really handle the issue called the Kurdish issue. He didn't handle terrorism, either, my friends. Was it 1983, 1984, when the first PKK terror began, and all political parties who represented the Turkish Grand National Assembly were together, and if they had actually been identified, there were a few marauders, and if they hadn't been ignored, what it meant, what it meant, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, and what it was, and what all the political parties that represented it, and if they had talked about it, if they had come up with solutions, we wouldn't be in this ridiculous situation right now, dear friends. This issue -- the issue of terrorism and the Kurdish issue -- even the issue of terrorism -- is not just a matter of safety policies, especially the Kurdish issue. My dear friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey does not have a security policy that it does not apply to the PKK. In the 1990s, strict security policies were implemented by outside the law. This nation has paid a great price for Kurdish, Turkish, we have lost thousands of children to our country, but we have not been able to solve it, we continue to lose it, our people still continue to die, dear friends. You know why? Of course, I'm not saying that you're a terrorist, because we all buried our heads in the sand, we didn't see it happen. That's why we're responsible, too, dear friends. You still think you're going to get out of this, my dear friends, by constraints in 2017, restraints, times behind the distances you've taken in your time. We've got young friends, they're going to continue their parliamentary position. Two semesters, three semesters from now, if you continue with these policies, we'll still be talking about it here on this bench, but in the meantime, maybe -- God forbid -- we'll lose new decades, hundreds, thousands of children. My dear friends, there is nothing more precious than man, nothing more precious than the life of one man. (CHP cheers) That's what humanity requires, and that's what all religions say. So, my dear friends, you've always said on these platforms, everywhere -- your leaders always say, "Don't you say, "Live man so that the state can live." You have sanctified institutions, friends; you have sanctified structure, system, status quo. You're wasting people. What would happen if there were three people, five people, a thousand people, 2,000 people? Dear friends, God forbid.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0104par0115	Who are we talking about? You're making it up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0103par0116	God forbid, dear friends. If, indeed, our country, our nation, our honor, our honor, our dignity is threatened, we will all give our lives for this country, for this nation, for religion, for honor, for honor. God forbid. But that's not the point. The important thing is not to bring them there; the important thing is to keep people alive, my dear friends. Kurdish citizens are people, people are friends, they're all people from Adam the Great. What's happening to these people? What have these people wanted for a hundred years, 40 years? We can't get out of this without honestly asking this question from this platform and having the courage to answer it. And we're all, and we're all responsible for this, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0105par0119	Thank you. Now, Mr. Mush, they've asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0106par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are a political party who knows that a life is more precious and more valuable than anything else. We say three, four, one thousand, two thousand people, two thousand people, what happens? We can't say we don't say that. Man is the most honorable creature on earth and the most precious being. In that respect, we certainly reject this statement, which your honor has used, a little beyond the limits of criticism, and we will not be able to accept it, and we will continue to take all the measures necessary by our 80 million citizens living in Turkey to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0105par0125	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0107par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0105par0127	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0107par0128	He kind of said something I didn't say.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0108par0129	Like he said what? It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0107par0130	I'm not being sarcastic, but I'm here to make a statement...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0109par0131	Here, I'll give you my word on that for a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0107par0133	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I did not just mention a political party group, Justice and Development Party, when I said that we don't value the death of 1 person, 10 people, 100 people, 1,000 people. By putting all of us, myself, into this -- those who are present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, those who have been here in the past -- I spoke of a lack of politics -- and I made a suggestion with this. If we put a man before everything, without distinction, but if we put that person aside, by putting his identity aside, by putting that person to live, by freeing that person, we can all cross the Kurdish issue together, as well as all the issues that stand before us like mountains. If we don't, we've lost thousands of people because of the negligence of the past, and because of our negligence, we'll lose thousands of people, and we'll all be responsible together. That's what I tried to tell you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0109par0136	Thank you very much, Mr. Bachelor. The second and final speaker on behalf of the individuals is Tunceli MP Gürsel Erol. Mr. Erol, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0110par0143	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Before we get to it, I'd like to start by making a statement. On Friday (July 21st) I would like to report to you first that my speech at the rally, which we had held after our march in Tucson, to commemorate and condemn Necmuddin's teacher and terrorist organizations, who were killed by the PKK in the past date. From here today, I salute all the land of the righteous Baba, the city of Munzur Baba, the city of Quraysh Baba, the land of Baba Mansur, the land of Dervish Cemal, the land of the Yellow Saltuk, the land of the Agaçan, the land of the Sultan Hıdur, the city of our furnaces, the city of freedoms, the city of Tunceli. An innocent, a hope, a labor, an educator's clean, pure blood has been poured into the land of our stoves by a terror organization, a traitor and a traitor, a traitor to the sanctity of our land. The blood of the Nejmudtin teacher became fire in our hearts, tears in our eyes, and the pain of his mother's father became our pain. Once again, I apologize on behalf of the people of Dersim for not being able to take care of our Nejmuddin. There's no description of this pain. From now on, your child is our child, our honor. The land of my lesson is your home, too. The bullet that was sprayed on the teacher was a bullet in the history of the teacher, in the culture of the class, in the traditions of the lesson, in the beliefs of the teacher. Nejmudtin is the bullet that was fired on the teacher, on the teacher, on the teacher, and on Turkey, and on humanity. This land has been the land of liberty, tolerance, human love, and resistance for justice for centuries. This is where I speak to the terror organizations that are causing trouble to our country, to the lives of 80 million of our citizens; to the murderers of blood, to the criminals of humanity, to the traitors; and if you are going to continue your acts of terror by spilling blood, by taking lives, by taking lives, there are millions in Tunceli, and in Tunceli, and in Dersim. There are millions in Turkey, who will pay the price for the country. That's enough! I'm speaking as a citizen, a father, an MP, and, above all, a teacher's child, the only institution in our country where children are orphaned and mothers don't cry... is the political institution responsible for the continuation of the terrorist process, because the political institution is not only a voice of problems, it's not just to keep the martyr funerals pure. Today, terrorism is a national issue of our country, and it is the duty of political will to resolve it. No more fires in the houses, no more mothers crying, no more orphans, no more terrorism, no more freedom, no more democracy. From here to the people of Dersim, you are a people who have fought for the glory of mankind for centuries. You are only a nation who have rebelled against the truth for the sake of justice. You are a people who have disobeyed the worship of man. You are a people who have paid a price for your beliefs. Now I invite you to start a new story of resistance to counter terrorism in order to call it right, law, justice, democracy and freedom. This resistance story is called the story of opposition to terrorism. And I say, "Long live democracy!" Long live justice! Long live the brotherhood! Long live peace! Long live freedom! Long live the secular republic! Down with terror! Down with terrorism! [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Members of parliament have used the statement that after this action and after this talk, I must pay the price and that I must be tried during the water process by the member of the TKK Executive Council -- one of the five people who founded the PKK -- Mustafa Karasu accused me of treason -- which, according to him, is correct. So in Turkish for this: execute him where you catch him. Now, look, I'm going to give you two examples. First of all, what some political forces have accused of being a fascist, what the state has done so far, what it has accused the state of, and what the state has done... A long time ago, the state caught Apoh in Kenya, put him on a plane, and said: "I will hold you responsible for the death of 30,000 people, and I will judge you, and you will take your lawyers, and defend yourself." The state said: "The local court may have made a wrong decision, appeal to a superior court, the Supreme Court." The Supreme Court approved the trial, and the Supreme Court approved the death penalty. Then the government said: "Impression is a crime of humanity. " He lifted the death penalty and put it in prison. My dear friends, I am the only MP in the CHP Group who does not participate in the first vote and does not find it right -- I do not make concessions from anything I know correctly -- and I am an MP who criticises the detention of Pervin Buldan. Tell me now who is a fascist in the event that an expert sergeant of the department decides to kill a teacher in this chair? Tell me, who's the fascist? I'm a politician, politically I'm a politician based on the ideology of my own party and the reality of my own city. I may not think like you, I may think contrary to you, but it is not my cause of death that I think contrary to you. Now, I ask the HDP MPs: If I have criticised the removal of your immunity on this stand yesterday, if I have criticised your imprisonment and criticised the treatments against you, I ask you to come to this stand with courage and courage to criticize the death warrant against me. (CHP and AK PARTY) If we are to protect this Parliament's dignity, the reputation of this Parliament, and the reputation of its MPs, then we must make no distinction.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0111par0154	What does that have to do with anything? What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0110par0155	To date: If an MP behaves against the Constitution, acts against the law and commits a crime, everyone must be equal in the face of the law and the law, but it is not a right job to be tried by an MP, it is a mistake. And in the same way, it's not right for a congressman to be demoted. I don't care what they think of me, I'm telling the truth. It's called national will, isn't it? We're hiding behind national will in everything, aren't we, fellas? Well, then, what we have to do is respect the national will, and let's not drop the legislature of our fellow lawmakers. Our fellow lawmakers who didn't come to the swearing-ins should come to this hall and swear, and be dropped in case he doesn't swear. But it's not politically correct, or morally, that a sworn MP should be demoted because he did not participate in the General Assembly's work. And it's not right for lawmakers to be tried again. Look, I'm speaking to you from this stand as an MP whose life has been threatened by the organization. That's not true. I don't care what our friends say, I tell the truth. Democracy, human rights should be universal, should be valid for everyone. In Ankara, I must be able to defend the republic, democracy, the beliefs of Mustafa Kemal. I must be able to defend in the most remote village of Tunceli, Tusimi. I can't go to every county in my county, I can't go to every county, I have issues with my safety. But I'm asking you now -- my other Tunceli MP friend, are you able to travel all over Ankara? You're traveling. Can you go to every village in Tunisia? You're leaving. Well, tell me, then, who has democracy and who doesn't have democracy? I can't go, I'm worried about life.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0111par0157	For God's sake...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0110par0158	Now, don't say God, I'm telling the truth about the region.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0112par0159	You're worried about life.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0110par0160	Then you will stand on this stand, and you will show courage and will to defend a congressman who has been wronged by the organization, just as you have been wronged. If you just call yourself democracy, human rights, you'll only fool yourself. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0113par0163	Thank you. Now, the last word is defense. On behalf of Tuğba Hezer Ozturk to defend, I pledge to Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder. We're not going to any time constraints. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0169	Mr. President, I'm going to give you the answer that you deserve, but before that, even though it was the Parliament General Assembly and commission halls, our first co-chairs, including Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, did not drop the word of the people's will, but did not address the municipal council halls, including my class, ignoring the local election results in one-third of this country, including the people's will. All the elected councilmen there, our co-chairs, I'd like to greet them as well. From what you've written, from what you've drawn, from what you've drawn, from what you've thought, I salute people who have been stripped of freedom, no exception, who have fought for all rights, who have done their job. I'd like to start with a word by Ali Shariati, who says: "If the state is speaking only in a country, it is all lies." From now on, it's probably not just the government here, but the government here, and somehow it's empty, and I'll try to do it if the friends around it remain silent. Now, first of all, I would like to say to Mr. Erol that as a person, not only you, but any chosen one, let him come into our eyes, under the fingernails of any citizen, a soldier, a policeman, a government official, a parent, let him come to us who has the right to breathe in this world, every living creature. I'm going to tell you the truth about you, but it's going to violate a very important principle. I give you an open call from here: come to this backstage, and I will tell you what is spoken of in Kandil. What message did you send before you were chosen, and what did they answer? I am a witness to this from the language of the Blackwater, and from the language of Reza Altun, whose name you mention in Kandil. You come to me, take any witnesses you want, and I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0115par0173	Sir Sýrý Bey, there's no need for backstage, here, here.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0174	Okay. There was a cardboard thing here about you being chosen to do politics. Your mayor, your mayor, has made a very real speech. Yours was very synthetic, very plastic. He did it, let me grab a cup and I'll catch up... It's not out of the public eye. Who are you throwing forts at here? Your carat, your caliber, the people of Dersim know, the Turkish people know, the whole country knows. Who called you, who encouraged you, they'll be out the day after tomorrow. I will not fail to celebrate this creative choice of CHP. On a day like this, sir, the gentleman was kind enough to say so when Pervin Buldan was taken in. That's all anyone said, sir. The trick isn't there, the trick is elsewhere; the heart of this story is somewhere else. Don't stoop to such cheap jobs, you'll only cheapen yourself. You're nowhere to test our democratic policy, our loyalty to democracy, our devotion to honor. You said if you had the courage, then you turned yourself in. Yeah, I've been all over this country. In some places I was greeted with roses, and in others I was lynched. And I haven't stayed since I was lynched. You're trying to teach us a lesson in courage with your own mouth, telling us that you can't go somewhere in your own constituency with your own mouth. What kind of sauerkraut is this?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0116par0178	Because of you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0179	Mr. President, I'm making a plea, please, Congressman...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0117par0180	Please don't interfere, Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0181	This is not a debate. I'll start over where they cut, where they talk. Look, I don't have any paper, I'm not gonna look at any notes. I have done nothing to abuse the Civil Law on this stand, and I will not do it today. We're going to talk about our problems, a defense, and it's not independent of what's happening today. Last word, you don't deserve all this, so let me see what you've got. Wherever you can't go, wherever you're scared, call me, if I don't shield you from my poor body, I'm an asshole. Call me, wherever you wish to go, if you can't go in this country and because you're scared, I'll shield my body from you. When we were talking about him on the eve of the political dissolution of two Kurdish deputies, such as absence, a true mayor of the city, who, al-hahayal faith, made a statement from our president of the prison. It's not worth it if you're hoping to harvest something from around here with three or four bids.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0118par0184	Know your place, sir. Know your place, don't lie!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0185	Your body didn't stoop to this disgrace.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0118par0186	They don't suit you. It's not good for you. Know your place!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0187	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0118par0188	Know your place! Don't lie and say the wrong thing. Speech!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0119par0189	Congressmans, do not interfere. Then I promise, if I have to promise. Please...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0190	You've been talking to us for two hours. What kind of insufferability is that? You've been counting on us for two hours.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0118par0191	To this day, I have never compromised my lordship and respect in this House. But you're a fraud and a liar.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0192	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0120par0193	Mr. Erol, please...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0118par0194	Everything you say is a lie. I've seen a lot of guys like you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0195	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0120par0196	Please, Mr. Erol...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0197	If you're curious, come and I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0120par0198	Mr. Commander, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0121par0199	It's not like having fun in a sniper bar. Know your place!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0200	You come, I'll tell you. Sit down!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0121par0201	Know your place!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0202	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0122par0203	Mr. Erol, please... please, let's not interfere. Mr. Commander, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0205	On the dare, I'll give you...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0123par0206	Courage is not slander.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0207	Look here, my lion, in the bet of courage...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0123par0208	Know your place, watch your mouth. There's no one else in front of you, know your place!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0209	...the genius of our courage makes you Richard the Lionheart, forget it, pass it. Now, let's get down to business. This was actually very instructive in showing how people were aligned in this country, when you said the Kurdish problem, or the Kurdish issue, or the Kurdish reflex. Good Father, they've broken your heads with the HES. No one ever said a word about this Good Father, and it's hard on you. Whatever. We're talking about a delegation for absence. What does that mean in the Civil Code? I'm going to tell you, the members, who are going to vote on this, that this is not the case. There's a document in front of you, and you're going to look at it, and you're going to make a decision with your conscience, okay? But you're not here. So there's 276 votes, that's supposed to be accepted by 276 votes, there's no 276 people here, there's even a possible reason to break it. But we don't care about the procedure, we say well, it's not a job for us, it's an honor. There was a drought in one village, and the drought reached a point so unbearable that they went out to pray for rain with the village imam, with the teacher. And the rain prayer didn't cure it. The rain prayer has a number of procedures and shapes, so that's what everyone needs to be abbreviated. But there's one thing that's very important: that all of the ready to join that prayer must be true. So we pray this prayer. This may be the cause of this rain. It must be in the woman, the thing of the rain prayer. If someone says, "Do we pray like this, but does it rain in prayer?" "If someone says, it becomes a swamp, it does not constitute a rat's wife." When the village's imam, the teacher, the muezzin didn't make a profit, they set out in the neighborhood to look for another teacher with breath and prayer. After a few tests and disappointments, they called on someone who was called a very deep Zat. He came, too, a few prayers, and the congregation started grumbling again, if it didn't rain. When he began to question the imam's ability or the teacher's ability, he said to the congregation: "It doesn't rain because of you. He said, "You have no quarrel." They said, "It's all right, it's all right." If you had faith that it would rain, you would have come with an umbrella. Now, there's no commitment here to the work of the members or the ruling party. If he did, he'd come, we'd say so, but let's hear the truth of it, what it is, what it is, what its generation, what it is. It's history we're worried about. Don't let them come now, thank God. As a burden of conscience, tomorrow they will answer for it to their children. Every semester the legislature is remembered for one thing, it's called the term of the murder of a deputy, and it's the period of aalaturka fascism, but it's all the same. Now, after the Civil Charter has passed, God knows, as an insult to Turkishism, you'll be on the road to a pay cut, so we'll continue using these concepts, not as much as we can afford, but as much as we can afford, and as much as we can rely on. The ruling party's approach in this business is nice, nice, and it's all about money. Pay him, you can do it. Pay him, no matter what. It's a phase like this. Don't you think it's a shame to say that to a congressman, so I'll take it out of your salary? Horse, if that's a thing, put him in jail. What do you mean, I'll cut you off? So, Bar-i-Huda... I mean, Hüda is the world, why are you playing with his livelihood? On the day when Our fortune shall be made manifest, it shall not perish; and if it be set, thy Lord will not withhold; and He will not create for me an unsustainable creature. he said. You, now, are you going to train us with money? Are you confused with yourself? Is that even possible? So, what's the real deal? The fact of the matter is, members, I've been acting in this Parliament for three semesters, and I'm a little more than a two-term Executive Director, so I'm a member of the Presidential Court, so I work in the kitchen where all these jobs are cooked, and I have a duty and responsibility. How does this work so far? The agenda of the Presidential Court, sometimes 3 points, sometimes 13 articles, 23 articles. The income proxy's alibi, motive and absence rule is prepared every two or three months, or, in fact, held every day, sent to members every three months. As the final agenda, many of you wouldn't even know it, your secretary would write and send these petitions to Parliament. We used to call the acceptance of all of them....... that would take us a minute at most; that's the established application. Ladies and gentlemen, when the established applications are applied to a certain time, you know, we call it, and what's called, teamul, is one of the most important Muslims in the Parliament's administration, one of the 3 columns. The law, the law, the Constitution, but with that, there was a process. Well, we're looking back -- I mean, I've been here for three semesters, but -- it's been almost like this since this House was founded. You can condemn, criticize, criticize the absence of a deputy, you can say, "He's lost the most." And it falls to the voters who choose him. Your choice, brother, we chose you, but you didn't give him enough time in the House. He says, "The next election will punish you." That's the way it's done, and it's a very heavy sanction for a self-knowing politician because you're putting in a lot of work, you're going down in history, you're here. Being a condemned, condemned, criticized deputy by his constituents is much heavier than being sent down here as an artema. Now, what happened in the new era? It started with the immunity process. There will be three parts of this talk: the first is this information phase, the second is its legality, the third is that we think it's all a political statement, so it's a political assessment of the issue. Now, we knew how to remove the immunity, how to assess it, the practices of the past and so on. This government is against the closure of more than one political party. We are the anthem. Since it is bound by its promise, let's take down these MPs one by one and sort this party out like this. You remember, there's nothing we haven't been told about us from terrorism to relationship to aiding and abetting. Now, the statements against us have been lifted with a total disregard for the Constitution of the General Assembly, even against its spirit. But here comes a freak, counselors, we've drawn attention here, but here we are, who reads loyalty, who listens? Here's the thing: in the rare practices so far, what would happen if there was a condition in which a deputy could be denied immunity from law enforcement, and that was considered appropriate to the commission of preparation, then the Karma Commission, then the General Assembly? It would have been removed by the end of the legislative period. Thus, all judicial procedures would have been cleared. What happened here? Here's what happened: since the ruling party did not see its MPs in safety -- why -- from the current state of judgment, from the monopoly of the congregation in the judiciary, therefore -- he did not see himself in safety, so he did not say, "Come, brother, let's remove the immunity of the law of all of us or all of those who have a file." The heart of the matter beats first here. What did he do? Like a barrier, like a parking entrance, he lifted it up, and he said, "Let the people in there go this way." He said, "As soon as they passed, he took it down." That's its essence; there's no need for long, technical and legal evaluations. What was the result of that? As a result, our trial barriers to all of our current files have been lifted, but on the second day, we've been restored to whatever the spirit, the essence, the shape, the form of immunity. I explained this to the judge in a court where I was taken into custody: Now, if I swear to you here or come and slap you, you will not be able to judge me, you will not search me, you will not search my house, you will not control my communications, you will not search my vehicle. A cop can't keep me off my back because I'm already a congressman with immunity. I mean, right now, our pyrup friend inside of you -- if there is -- my situation is the same with the law, so whatever they can't do to you, they're gonna have to be able to do to me. But it wasn't done, so the weirdo followed one another. Of course, in the future, political historians will write, and on that day, we will vote against the Constitution of the opposition, but yes, we will vote. I will not enter into the bargains behind his saying, his commitments, his promises that are not kept; I will not enter into the history in the future, in case there is speculation. What was said? No deputy will be arrested. Were they promised or not? Convinced by what? Or are we just going to arrest HDP people, not touch you? These will be illuminated in the light of political historians and memories. That didn't happen, and that's why such a freak appeared. Now, in addition to many other reasons -- such as this, there is no need -- it has been considered appropriate for our two deputies to stay abroad, to have a few friends of ours to tell the world's public about this matter when their intention of turning towards us and political destruction has been revealed. Now, the Speaker of the House has committed a wrong job that he has never done, and he probably won't do after that, in a manner that has no place in the law. What did he do? He's become a detective, but there's no definition of the law as to what the deputy is doing abroad. Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldıldı was treated with the same disease here at Trust Hospital earlier, and he ignored his reports, and Mr. Tuğba Hezer Özturk was assigned by our party, and they ignored this report, and instead, on Facebook, some psychological war product broadcasts, he gave himself the task of identifying where they were at the hour or so. If there's no trouble here, our deputies don't do anything in secret, it's obvious where they are, what they're doing. Now, at the end of this matter, which has nothing to do with it, let's drop them because of the absence. Because we're going to live, we're going to see, for all of us, for reasons that aren't political or -- I'm using it in a non-political way -- in a non-terror crime -- Mr. President Ahmet Yıldırım has been sentenced to a year, three months, or thirteen months. The law has been so violated that only in crimes committed against state security or in crimes such as shameful or embezzlement has been added to the rule of right to be elected. I mean, that's enough to give you a clue about intent. Mr. Minister of Justice: They don't come, they don't testify, which is why we're making arrests, arrests and arrests, and we're taking them by force, he said. I'll tell you in a moment why we didn't go, but the one they've brought in on this occasion, the one they're still charging, where he'll be tried, and let alone in front of the court, has yet to be released from the case he's being held before the judge. I mean, anywhere you look at it, they're accusing us of running from court or running from law in a political operation, prepared with political opinions. On behalf of my friends and friends, we have decided that it would be disrespectful to the law, to the general principles of the law, to the universal principles of human rights, to go to these courts with our own hands -- to take us to these courts, not to defend us, not to make a political assessment, because it is not a normal, legal, legal procedure that we are walking -- to follow this ritual, it would be disrespectful, it would be an insult to the universal principles of human rights. We are quit of them, and We observe that which you do not observe, so we are not going. That's because what shape you are is not a judgment as content. On the other hand, there's something called justice, the first concept of your party. They have ontological meanings, such as justice, fucking root and distribution, equalization, but the common response is, we know, equal behavior. So, is there an application union in this House about the continuum? No. So basically, not just far... Today, Mr. Vice President has opened this House through observation, where he has a place in the Civil Code, which is the eye decision; he looked, and said there are sufficient majority. Do you guys know what the technical, legal consequences are when he says that? All of our friends who aren't here are being counted here today. We called it a team, we said an application unit... If you'll excuse me, it'll take a while, forgive me, and I'm a little uncomfortable. All of the members, so now 100 people in this House, are not coming to Parliament as much as these two MPs. If I could just leave you 100 people -- our own friends, every political party -- you can count these 100 people in a heartbeat. I consider it shameful to call names, but do you know of an ex-Prime Minister who's known to the public very closely and has never been here, what appears to be on the non-responsibility table? Only one day he didn't show up, he filed an appeal. No, I was there that day. Well, now you can't help but ask: brother, there are two ways. I mean, we didn't see you, and God knows we didn't see you here, except for a vote of confidence and a constitutional referendum. So you encouraged someone to lie, a friend gave a compass for you. Is there another explanation? No. Since the application union is not being met, this process is unfair. What could have been the way? Whether we all oppose it or oppose it, we have no right to speak up for the price, for the price, if we don't obey it, so, brother, you knew it when you came in, that's the practice, that's the law, that's the law. When we're called it, we don't have an argument of objection. But here, when the Council of Presidents decided to take these two deputies into account and eliminate them, he said: "From now on, we will follow the issue of non-existence more seriously." We proposed a method for this -- Mr. Pervin Buldan and Mr. Pervin Buldan -- in the presidential Court records, in the minutes of the meeting -- that after this, all sessions should be opened by default. You guys do this, so everyone who doesn't show up is equally exposed to this sanction, and, of course, we're looking at it with our heads. They didn't do that, that's what I call detective work. You're going to count the other 548 deputies coming in, you're going to assume, except for those who petition for excuses and so on, but actually, we had all the members on that day, but look, this one sent us a petition, which means they don't have a warrant. Look, we also don't accept this request for permission. Look, the day he made a statement here, he was in Germany, Belgium, that day he was in Belgium. Without an application union, precious friends are meant to lift justice forever, or else you threw it away, in this day's glory, in today's dust, in today's mass, he can be greeted with no sense of shame. But we all know we've lived, we've all been here as members of this House, we've all been humiliated, oppressed, hurt, condemned, cursed for treating Kurdish MPs in the past. Today, those who received that treatment are in history's garbage bins, whose names are not read. It's a matter of the day after tomorrow when you don't remind yourself of yourself like that, or else you've thrown out two deputies, and you've got nothing. We're not on that beach. Now, that's not fair because the application union is not being met. Let's get to the other side of this. Yeah, well, that's what makes an illiterate like me an expert in this matter. The other issue, friends, is that the Council -- again everything is based on justice -- is that about 12.8 per cent of its members are not officially obliged to continue with this Parliament. Who are they? I don't have one. If it were me who was wanted or me who was going abroad, it wouldn't be a negotiation for me. Why? He's been held back from roll call? Who? 25 members of the Presidential Court. We've separated them. The group is out of the question before the vice presidents check in. Parliament Speakers -- let there be no count in the presidential court -- commissioners, heads of the parties' headquarters, vice presidents, there's a change in the charter. So when we multiply these rates and add them up, the total number of members of the Assembly is 12.8 per cent -- because of the change. But with practice... Mr. Elitaş, I know, I know, I've studied them all. Don't ask me, is that so?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0124par0229	More than 12 percent.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0230	Now... I'll be there. But there are applications during the semester. For example, there were new members of the Constitutional Spelling Commission in the 24th term, 12 MPs. Members of the new Constitutional Spelling Commission, here, when your General Assembly opens, there are presidential presentations -- one of which is indiscriminate, hear-and-hear-run -- excluding members of the new Constitutional Spelling Commission from their obligations to the House... We served, like, three years, we didn't meet every day of those three years, but none of those three years, our names were filed on the General Assembly's sequel, and certain commissions, if certain commissions coincide with the General Assembly, would be in Parliament without inspection. And when we add these up, it's variable, so I can't give you a constant ratio, depending on the period, depending on the agenda -- almost one-third is not necessarily required to continue. Now, where's the justice in that? Let me tell you from the point of point of view: if we had given him our congress right after that, if we had made him vice president at that convention -- we didn't appreciate it, and we knew that -- we would not have had this meeting today -- because he was the head of the general centre, or because he was the relevant vice president, he would have been exempted from this roll call, and he would not have had that obligation. Here's one of the things we have left in the case of justice, where we're trapped. So this work, if you will, is a useful task, one, an unjust deed, two, and three, not fair. I think I made a commitment not to abuse time when I started talking about it on this stand. So I put it in this frame: I'm not going to read an article, I'm not going to look at a written note, I'm not going to repeat what I said. That's why I'm trying to stop myself from repeating it on the basis of its importance. Therefore, you will deal with your consciences in this matter. I salute all the members who are here in particular, and I salute the members who are not here, and I say to them: In a session where you do not stoop to listen to your own defense, I use this vote to get the deputy reduced because of the insurgency. Think about it for a minute, if you don't shake your mind to answer to Hakkk, then go ahead. You're very brave people, you're very fearless people. This is what I observe in these matters: that everyone believes in God, but they do not trust in God.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0125par0235	Get him out of here. No one forbids it, let's go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0236	Let him come out. They'll come out. And by oath of those (angels) who come out
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0125par0237	Yeah, let's vote no.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0238	Congressman, what did we do to those who came out? Then let's look at him. That's a nice way to put it; I took it, I took it. Let him come out. We've had deputies who went out and didn't go out. The government gave me a little space. So, Ulan, we can't handle this much, so if you're going to run away, run. He's arrived, he's held our group meeting, Mr. Besime Konca. There was a warrant for his arrest, there was no reason for him to leave; he didn't come out, he came in. That won't be necessary yet, Mr. Idris Baluken, whom you all know very well. The court, where he was detained and arrested, followed: He collected all the evidence, one; took his statement, two; listened to the witnesses; three; the file was taken, finished, four. At one point in the trial, the court committee wrote, "The evidence collected, the change of the crime frame, etc., etc. we know about the defendant, etc., and the current court of the Constitutional Court, which, in our midst, Mr. Member. I must say with gratitude that friends from many political parties -- including the ruling party -- have especially felt the need to mobilise and evacuate for some of our friends they know, who they know closely, who have been unanimous, as I said. Do you know what happened next, Congressman? After that, the Diyarbakır Chief Prosecutor has appealed to another court, another criminal court, to re-arrest another court, to re-arrest an MP who had come to the decision-making stage of a criminal court, which has no place in our history of law, whose wife and precedent we have not encountered. A case like this in the history of Turkey's legal history, we looked for it, we couldn't find it; if you look for it, maybe you'll find a case or two. The Attorney General objected to that. So, what happened? It's a unanimous decision. You'd look for, of course, my brother, maybe there's some new evidence in the same file that wasn't there before. We called Idris Bauken a member of the organization, and the situation doesn't show that he's a member of the organization, but it turns out that the evidence came through, brother. With an objection made without presenting any new evidence, not offering a proposal, not mentioning its existence, Mr. Deputy, a warrant has been issued for the arrest of İdris Baluken. You know, we're going through some weird days. So, what happened to the Attorney General of the Republic, who made this effort? Mr. Attorney General has been treated with suspicion. So, what happened to the parole board? It's easy to talk to such stereotypes here, and that's Diyarbakir 8. The President of the High Criminal Court has been appointed as a straight judge in Ankara's court of law without suspicion that this part of this assessment is mine. High Criminal Chief. Here are the MPs from the AK PARTY, who are following the issue. If there's a financial error in what I'm saying, it's enough that they say there is, I apologize, that's all. Now, do you understand, Congressman? So you're saying they're coming, but they're doing it to people, they're doing it to them, they're doing it to them.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0126par0241	Whatever the reason, the deputy can't escape.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0242	No one's running, no one's chasing, no one's running. Why should we run away? When did we escape? If he'd run, there'd be so much about us, these deputies would have escaped. Well, let's get back to another matter that might hurt the sense of justice. We have been removed from this barrier, and we have been ordered to stand trial, which we do not have a paralegal -- the judge, who has signed under the proceedings, the prosecutor, not one of whom is on duty, but the whole of whom has either been expelled or in prison. I mean, this is all just a bunch of press conferences from the community. Leave him alone, he's got sincere confessions. Diyarbakır's former chief prosecutor declares in his statement what sort of false documents were prepared for the TK operation. But the same prosecutor, the same operation... When nearly 11,000 civil politicians were arrested, all in legal, supervised civil policy institutions and party politicians, who had not even been caught with a nail knife on them, we had to pay compensation to those judges because we said so here, and therefore again -- many of our former group -- had to eat. And at that time, you, the members, were giving us a lecture on the analgesic and anesthetic effect of the finger that the judge cut off and identified the law with the court. We saw razor blades, scalpels... We've seen you get hurt a little bit if you get a fly like this, when it touches you a little bit. You've counted them as traitors who didn't swear together and as soloists. But that's what we're saying, we're saying that this operation is in these hands, and more than that, we're familiar with the negotiations process, the facts that we're dealing with. They're the subject of the political assessment, and when we get there, we'll tell him... Give me some water.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0127par0245	Drink plenty of water, Mr. Sýrý Bey.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0246	Sir, don't count on it, Congressman. I'll talk to you that long, so just relax. You can visit your home, your elders, patients, if you have them. Because this end, from now on, the opposition will see the back of his neck, and he won't be able to see these platforms in that time; you bring them in; lift them up, bring them down. But it's very important that if we don't keep it from now on and try to understand each other in this state of mind, trying to understand each other, listening to our place, our world of faith, our world of belief, our world of thought, and listening to each other, it might not have come to this extent, or if it does, we've done our part tomorrow when we get to Hakkk. Well, we've done our best; it's a great peace, it's a great comfort. Well, that's what we said about the political dimension of the issue, so I guess there's nothing we haven't been told about the technicality. There's so much to tell, but I've chosen the ones that seem most innocent, and you can calculate the rest from here, I'll transfer it to your fear. Now, why did this happen? Mr. Bachelor gave a very sincere speech and demanded courage, and I thank him. Now, bravely, we will talk about what the Kurds want and what they want. Kurds want the right to education and teaching in their native language, like all Turkish children of this country, like all civilized peoples of the world. And when we demand that, what stands in our way? Here's what we're looking at: Mr. President was then Prime Minister, publicly saying, "Don't come to me with a demand for education in the native language. The request for primary language education divides the country." he said. There are some things that, when said more than once and not discussed on a tidy floor like this, when the object is not found, after some time it seems as if it were a reality. Let's see if education in the native language divides the country or not. And the opposition party's primary language education... In constitutional studies, the main point of opposition in the new Constitutional studies was: "Let all obstacles in primary language education be removed, but we are opposed to education in the main language. There's a difference between these two. So, let people learn their native language as they please, but let them not be taught in the native language." It's in the new Constitution. You remember, I'd like to remind our friends, the 24th term deputy, that I'm speaking to them. The matter of the mother tongue was discussed, and there was dust from the hammock. I went out, I read an anti-war poem here in Latin. I'll tell you exactly what happened that day. When I began to read Latin poetry, first, a number of our nationally sensitive friends suggested that it was Kurdish, and for a while, when I listened, they discovered that it was my accent, and that what was said actually looked like Latin. The objections are, when you look at the transcripts, there's these members who say, "I'm yours too..." It was a five-minute speech, and I spent four minutes reading this Latin poem; it's a classic Latin poem in anti-war poems; it's epic, even, I read a chapter from it. In the last minute of the speech, I said, "Misters, you're saying that we split the country and oppose education in the native language, so here's a Kurdish kid who understands as much as you understand this Latin poem when his teacher welcomes him to elementary school the day he first goes to elementary school and starts his first lesson. This is the subject of serious scientific study at the academy. It's full of scientific evidence of the unfair competition of not being educated in the native language. In terms of Kurdish children, one: the accent, half-trained Turkish -- there are Kurdish paralegals among us -- who are not at our party, who have all witnessed these scenes in their childhood years -- can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't start laughing at other kids. I'm talking about scientific observations. This results in suspension and suspension from the child's education process. I'm talking about a pedagogic thing. We're not here yet. Something ideological. A language he dreams of listening to his water, his mother, his lullaby, his song, his crying ends, in an atmosphere he's never heard or heard of, and you put him in the same lane as people who've spoken that language since the day he was born, subjecting him to the same measurement, evaluation criteria. In practice, it means that the Kurdish boy is starting this race from 3-0. Some tear it up, some have a better share, some have the power to teach this class or this education, but even our friend here, who makes state beauty, called it "seksen" (seksen). So it doesn't work after that, so the accent sticks somehow, and in Turkish cinema, in Turkish summer, in the Turkish show and drama industry, it's still low, shamelessly, that's the object of humor and humor. If you go where, without accounting for a public being deeply injured, hurt, hurt, hurt? The feeling of continuing to live in a language other than the language and native language, such discrimination is the result of humiliation. Mr. Bachelor, look, I'm not saying anything that takes courage or anything like that. I have answered the call to be brave, and I begin with the most reasonable, the First Amendment of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which begins with the article "Free, equal, with its own native language." He demands his native language; what do we do? We appointed trustees to municipalities who were desperate to teach in their native language; their first job was to shut down institutions that provided education in the native language. If it's courage, we don't need it, we need its owners and its volunteer night watchmans. If it's courage, we said it, let everyone learn in their native language. The world has already put this discussion behind us, but we're still acting on the paranoia that this will divide the country. Doesn't everyone have the right to operate in order to live their own culture, their own colors? Dominus. Well, it turns into illegal organization propaganda when it comes to Kurds. Again, I'll give you an example from Mr. President. As the process went on, my Kurdish brothers called it. The process is over, we've given up Kurdish, we've given up Kurdish culture, we've given up language, we've stopped mentioning Kurdish's own name. For example, I watched carefully during the referendum talks, saying, "My brothers who voted for Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)." After that, the HDP is not a representative of the Kurds. So that could happen? Not to mention the Kurdish name... not only that; look at the formation of the cabinet, look at the state's key decision process, the Kurd here, look at the Alevi ratio, what I'm trying to say is that the statement will come out because it can't be said, honey can't be tasted with honey. The more spaces you make in public, the more you show your sincerity in this matter. In the public field... there are people who have been expelled under the law... because their parents have given their children a Kurdish name in their native language... because their name is Kurdish. It's been known to be written on grounds. If you dare, come, Mr. Bacheloroglu, as a man who believes in democracy and believes in democracy, you lead the way, and we'll start with the native language. It is a matter of many background dimensions of social, economic, cultural and historical. Violence is only a result of this issue, it's a dimension, but because of its consequence, it's its size. Again, when I say it a few times, and not too many people object, we have to move on to another reality that's supposed to be true.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0128par0257	Mr. Commander, just a reminder, we're over an hour away, sir. In a reasonable way...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's not count the blessings, but thank you, one hour... Mr. Sentop, welcome, I didn't even know you were there. Mr. Sentop was both the President of this Commission and we worked together on the new Constitutional Spelling Commission. If I say something today about the first four indisputable articles of the Constitution, God willing, it will come to the conclusion of the Peacetin Bey, but it's been written down, so I'm not reporting anyone. In this country, friends, you're always making dates for this coup, you're making criteria for yourself, and you don't need these KCK operations, let me tell you your name, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin. When the bank shut down Asia, he was there, waving a bunch of money around, chewing on people. No poor people are in a co-op, they're putting their salary in there, so Bank, you're firing the smallest defection with Asia, you're looking for public personnel who have been identified, you're looking for pure political feet... or he didn't do it in secret, brother, he's in the money shaker footage. So, he pulled it out of the wallet, and he left... (Bank Asia is being purged, and it's being hit by the government.) About you, about us, when Roboski was bombed, when the Roboski massacres and the political destruction operations were going on, and the guy who defended it in a slurp went out of here and put so much money into Bank Asia... don't let him get the wrong idea, I swear, arrest him or anything! I mean, if there's a crime, in front of the law, the way you treat others, the way you treat others, is to be judged in legal dimensions, like everyone else. Now, I'd be sorry if something happened to you. One day we couldn't have a good conversation with him -- I was a member of the Internal Affairs Commission -- we fought whenever we got out. But, brother, if mercy has a name in your village, I'm sure you're considering it within yourself because it's your fault, my friends. No party vice president, vice president, vice president, vice president, prime minister will be with you on account day tomorrow. They'll say, "Why did you do this?" Those who do not live as they believe, begin to believe in what they are going through. That's what it looks like right now, that I can't live the way he believes. After a while, a man cracks up in a schizophrenic like that, he dies. So it's a double life. On the one hand, the faith, the woman, your own personal history, what you pay for, what you know is right; on the other hand, the things you're forced to do, the law, the conscience, the deeds that ignore. For God's sake, let's hear it if someone's going to answer for it. So that's fair, that's fair, that's fair? Now, we're talking about a 100-year-old issue that has been significantly armed in the last 40 years of the country. A process has begun, with a very wrong statement, sir, there is conflict, peace-storage process under these conditions, don't say that. Here, our people, our soldiers, our policemen, our young people are dying. We're forgetting, E, brother, that this is the only way to negotiate. Because it's not a gang issue, it's not an armed organization issue, it's got a thousand dimensions, it's just one dimension of it, it's unacceptable size, and I'll tell you that my personal opinion is unacceptable, and it needs to be immediately resolved on the basis of freedom, equality and justice. That's exactly why we need to negotiate, because we've forgotten that negotiations are needed most of all in these conditions, and everyone is taking advantage of their duties so as not to shed more blood. What happened? The cabinet of the period at the National Security Council meeting said to the members of the military bureaucrats of the period: "Do you lack anything in order to deal with this violence, terrorism?" They answered, metaphorically speaking, because it was guilty of explaining the National Security Council's regulations, they said: "No, we lack one thing, we fail to come to the mountain as long as we continue to fight this process. Are you able to solve this issue? So, one night the Cabinet lay down, slept, and woke up in the morning. He did not say, "Let us make peace with these Kurds." An unpayable cost, an unsustainable war, an unacceptable situation, and a sequence of circumstances. He did what he had to do, he did what was right, he did what he was late for. God bless everyone who's worked so hard to get here. It's started. What happened, what could have happened, what couldn't have been done, but we came back, and this was the basis of political revenge. We need to inform the General Assembly of this, and we need to go down in history. What happened was... I'm going to talk about it with some anecdotes, and there's no one who's dead in it, they're all alive, and someone says, "It's a little, it's a little, it's not a profit, it's a profit, I'm telling what's going to happen."
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0129par0266	I hope we can wrap this up slowly, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0267	I accept the slow part of this warning. Okay, I'll pick it up slowly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0129par0268	You're there to defend Mr. Tugba Hezer Ozurk.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0269	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0129par0270	You said you'd speak in a reasonable manner.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0271	Thanks.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0129par0272	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0273	Mr. President, I'm not or I'm not abusing the time. But the operation that was carried out was carried out by political opinions. I had a determination, which I transferred to the Council of Ministers. So I'm thinking that without a political assessment, the most important leg of this defense would be missing. I'm not going to abuse the time, as you can see, all members are witnesses, and I'm not saying it again.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0129par0274	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0275	I will consider the slow part of your warning and end it. With the Obama administration, it's not just a matter of our country, it's a regional issue, it's a regional dimension, it's a question of the world, given the state of the region. When the Obama administration took over in the United States, it adopted an approach called the optimistic outlook as a short and medium-term strategy. The essence of this approach -- I won't take your time -- was to weaken relations with authoritarian structures in the region and expand democratic or democratic structure, institution, people. For this reason, the judge paradigm of Iran-Israel's seesaw was the decisive paradigm in the region; they did not accept it as data; through sanctions to Iran, through the effects of Israel, they said, "Stay one step behind." They also put Turkey ahead, Mr. President of the era and Mr. Davutoglu -- this was an obligatory step or result of the American view of the region. In particular, Mr. Davutoglu felt the need to give Mr. Bahçli an answer for the first time today...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0130par0279	We haven't said our last words yet.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0114par0280	...I hope that you will be able to answer Mr. Gardenli, one day, what happened here during his prime minister's term, did he not have his own personal responsibility in all of this -- I'm not accusing anything -- all of this, today, to answer the criticisms of the ruling chiefs, judgment leaders, or idea people from within themselves, especially this Kurdish issue, especially Rojava -- what happened -- what happened -- what happened, what was the government's approach to the PYD and YPG in his prime? We'd love to hear from Mr. Davutoglu about October 6th and 8th. If we're going to start, if we need courage -- like I said, we don't need -- we need the owners of the stadium and we need the actors for a semester. Let them come here, let us discuss their shortcomings, their faults, their accuracy, their virtues, in every way. Without it, the matter will walk away like a blind fight, and what happens will happen to our lives, lost every day. Once again, the blue marmara was a matter of breaching, just like Egypt. For America, the main thing was who's going to stand guard at the Gate of Prosperity. My security begins with Israel's safety. A sense of understanding says, "Let's cut off relations with autocratic structures in this country and turn to democratic structures." After a while, the power of this power became an illusion of its own power. It was a very dangerous thing. The advantages of conjunctural and conjunctural, the power of the conjunctive gave you, as if it were your own power, would get you into the irrational equations after that. As a matter of fact, it did. Look, I don't use any communicative language, and I'm making the most of it. There's been a mistake, a lack of predictability, a measurement, a lack of ability to plant a plant based on fertilizer, but the consequences of such an innocent issue have been extremely high in terms of our social cost. The developments in Assad and Syria, a small bourgeois dictator at heart, brought the Kurds to a vital fork in the road for the first time, and that was the end of it. There were many visionaries, there were many pleasant imaginations, there were many sad slogans; all of which brought the Kurds to the brink of extinction, as well as many consequences in the region. I was on the negotiating committee at the time, meeting with Kandil, meeting with the security bureaucracy of the state. Each week, with the five ministers of this state, we were going through a process of negotiations where the process of resolution came, where we reached the barriers in front of us, where we reached our range, how we could get there, and so on, publicly, in the prime minister's office, where our entry was recorded by all the press, where our exit was reported. Here in the world, this is what war is all about: it's a conflict. When fighting parties come together, they have a period of measuring, recognizing, first measuring each other's terminology, literature, understanding, reflexes, the meanings they put into concepts. The post-conflict solution is the way all countries follow. I wish there would be a special session one day, and we have a member in the world, whose name is also called literature, who is a representative of our party, a valued academic, Mr. Mithat Sancar, who tells us about his world experiences; what happened, where he was cut, how he was succeeded, and what happened after that -- an academic who was called in the world literature. Hodja, my respects. One that I will not praise all of our representatives.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0131par0288	If you'd like to drink a little too much water, Mr. Commander. You want some friends to bring the water? Mr. Commander, let's wrap this up a little more quickly, I'm sure you'll agree. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0291	I'd love to join you. I'll finish when it's finished, Mr. President. However, these will be grounds for disparagement in the Constitutional Court in the future, limiting the defense, limiting it, because the Civil Code is very clear, and I'll say it in advance. The Civil Code states that the defense does not have a limit for a period of time, but I will heed your warning.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0131par0293	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0294	You're welcome. In these post-conflict solution processes, there was a period of time called such a dialogue process, which we described as that, in international literature, was equivalent to this. What has been achieved during this period is that, however, trust is a means of building trust in one another. And I'm going to say that starting here, starting with myself, I'm going to refer to myself as the greatest responsibility and the greatest part of it: no one has fully fulfilled the role, the responsibility, the mission, the reason, the other. Everyone gives 50 reasons, 49, probably all of us, but the other truth is, we couldn't make the bet. We couldn't socialize the peace demand in this country. Instead of socializing, instead of dedication to everyone's heart, mind, heart, energy, demand for peace, where do I scythe this process, where do I make the material of a political demagogue, where do I strike it, where do I make it a means to weaken it, under an external shower, under an external shower, which we have not been able to protect enough of this process -- beginning with myself. What was the second? Second: Mr. Ocalan is conceptualized by Mr. Imralı, saying "darbe mechanics" in the Imralı, and he's been systematically describing this with the practice of the congregation so far, and he's been working almost half the time of the interview. This blow is coming. It's targeting all of you, us, the government, the government. Don't you see that? Aren't you taking precautions? He will slaughter this process. He passed by with warnings. We've seen impact mechanics, we've seen it every day today, in every incident that's been listed as the end of the solution process. First of all, in terms of history, when it was all a rose in the amyani sense, when a human flood of ISIS was coming from Rojava, when I think Mr. Efkan Ala Τ was on his way here, or on a foreign journey, I'd say that when he instructed us not to wait until the process was over, but to take them in immediately, what we call the impact mechanics of his predictions. They waited in there long enough for the public to prepare for it. The staff there, the responsible staff, from today, we understand that they are in front of the court today on charges of either the planner or the actual enforcer of the coup. This upsets all accounts, and the first practice was that, as a brother living in it, I assure you, there is no political debate; whatever I have seen, whatever I am convinced of, I share with you: Mr. Numan is saved and Mr. Efkan Ala has visited it, and they have saved the Suruç and their lives. The way it was reflected in the public was that the Kurdish youth seemed to have taken it in a good way. We were all in the process, and we became completely bloodless that Kurds or organized Kurdish youth or organised Kurdish political structures didn't even know about it. Impact mechanics is one of the things everyone misses, where it first shows up. When we spoke to Mr. Efkan Ala, we were also troubled by the fact that this is not the weather, this is not the atmosphere, this is a negotiation process, and when we said, "Where did this come from?" He said that there's a community structure that's been established there, and they can penetrate far beyond what we can detect. Intelligence services are running wild, and it's theirs, so don't worry about it. We know, we're sure, we've seen, we've heard. Two, two cops murdered in their sleep. Directly this PKK was taken into account, the direct perpetrators were found to him, a number of organizations who have claimed it, which the PKK has not counted from itself, who are likely to insist on taking over today, but in the process of trial conducted through all these manipulations, it has nothing to do with the PKK, let's just say central decision processes. When we -- when we were able to visit Kandil, we looked into this very detailed, very elaborate. The third is about the trenches and the captured soldiers in lice, Bingol district. Such a wave was coming, and we saw that it had nothing to do with the Kurdish political movement, the PKK, and that the government had nothing to do with it. I won't waste your time. Under these circumstances...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0133par0300	Did you mean that the moats had nothing to do with the PKK?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0301	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0133par0302	You're saying the moats have nothing to do with the PKK.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0303	I'm not saying I do, I'm not saying I don't. There is, but he's got this mechanic, so since you asked him, let me make it clear to him...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0134par0304	Mr. Commander, I think we'll be clear on all the issues, it seems...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0305	But an AK PARTY deputy wants to be briefed, and it's our debt to inform.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0134par0306	...but you're there to defend yourself.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0132par0307	Mr. President, yes, that's exactly why we can't talk enough.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0134par0308	We didn't really think to warn you as much as possible. About an hour and a half. Please... I beg of you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0135par0311	Yeah, okay. Mr. Ocalan İmrallı said: "A state cannot accept a ditch. This is a violation of his right to direct sovereignty. I, Mr. Idris Baluken, have asked Mr. Pervin Buldan personally: "Go investigate this and tell them who is doing this by me that it is unacceptable." One of them was taken from the Church and one of them was taken from two special sergeants from Nurdağ -- therefore there is a dissolution about us now -- and in this way important -- and bring them to their families. We were co-ordinating with the Minister of Interior of the period, and there was a meeting of the National Security Council the next day -- this is very important. Private, red tape had repeatedly entered the spirit of the process in the region, and it was somehow suppressed by the government's will. They said here: "There is a written request for intervention on the National Security Council tomorrow, so this has to be resolved within 24 hours, or the process will be seriously damaged, perhaps it will end." We went with this dignity and told them why these moats were opened, along with Mr. Ocalan's approach to the trench issue. The reality that we came to share with the ministers of the era and with the responsible bureaucrats is that it turns out I'm 116, maybe 166 detentions a day in the region, and that's one, without a line, without a criterion; that's one. Secondly, the building of the goalie. lice, you know, was one of our cities that had a major earthquake. Even in lice, his home was destroyed in an earthquake. So it's been about 20 or so years, earthquake houses, over and over again, tenders, restorations, revisions, cancellations, or whatever, construction of castles in a town that hasn't been finished yet, with a lot of extra budgets. There is a reality known to people who lived in lice, or to those who later learned about it, that a police station in lice was the door to the cemetery in the 90s. So the practices, language, images of a time when you're conducting a peace process, all of which have to be chosen to serve peace.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0136par0314	You mean the goalie against the peace?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0135par0315	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0136par0316	Is the police against it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0135par0317	Dear Vice President, the power of your era has destroyed the building of that castle with our negotiations, and there is no longer a phenomenon called "hell." And within 24 hours, all the supplies that were sent there were taken along with the trucks, and we had those who had opened the moats shut them up, and We had the soldiers taken in, and We delivered them to their families. For a long time, this ditch business hasn't been updated. The intelligence agencies of our time are no longer working in the spy-provocator way. How do they work? They tend to improve, they tilt, they know everything will flow there, because it's after that. This impact mechanics that sees this reflex -- which, of course, the commanders who operate this operation today -- is accountable for the coup d'état -- what did he do? Silvan, Cizre, Sur and Nusaybin... look, there were no moats in all Kurdish provinces, but they looked at it, and when we turned around, they dug a ditch. And there's been a lot of it from the government, because it's because it's not discussed enough, it's always talked about at the hammock level... look, in all of them, it's the result of a lot of reckless, uncharacteristic arrests and detentions.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0137par0319	Yes, Mr. Commander, we've been over an hour and a half, we've gone too far. Of course, this is the longest conversation on the floor of the House in one breath.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0135par0320	The longest conversation?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0137par0321	I think that probably happened, too, I don't know, I haven't looked into it, but, please, let's wrap this up, the reasonable amount of time...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0138par0322	Is there a limit, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0139par0323	You're deputizing a member of Parliament...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0140par0324	There's no line of defense, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0141par0325	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0142par0326	Well, I hope our Meral Danış Beştaş deputy beats my record, too. President, really, Mr. AK PARTY, let's ask the MPs. I mean, I'm not making a hammock, I'm not manipulating it, and I've seen them watching it carefully from the beginning; I've got my opinions, my findings, maybe they don't agree with any of it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0143par0328	Why aren't the guns buried? Why don't you tell me about them?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0142par0329	I'll tell you about that. Look, I'm getting demands, demands all the time; write it on the napkin, send it, I'll tell you what you want.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0144par0331	Mr. Commander, I beg you, let's wrap this up in a reasonable time. You're already there as a defense. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0145par0333	Mr. Secret... it's not the right analysis, it's a waste.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0146par0334	I don't know...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0144par0335	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0147par0336	Neither do you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0148par0337	Neither do you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0149par0338	You're really messing with my mind.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0147par0339	We're friends who'll finish more easily, but...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0148par0340	The legislature is being reduced.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0150par0341	So it's just an ordinary thing like that?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0151par0342	Start over, President, start over, start over with the ditch.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0148par0343	It'll come back from the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0152par0344	Not from this semester's Supreme Court, of course.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0153par0345	It's not up to us, it's not up to you, it's up to him...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0154par0346	If he left it on your warning...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0153par0347	Wait a minute... there's still a vote, guys, nothing yet.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0155par0348	I'm sure we're so homesick to talk, to argue, to understand each other, that's what I'm tired of. There may be thoughts that really contradict us, there may be compelling thoughts, but we've all experienced the cost of not doing it together, and we've seen that we're worth a lot of money. Mr. President, I think that this silence, this concentration of attention, suggests a little bit of this, but if we brought in this defence without the continuum, if only those who hope to achieve it would have known that our two representatives would not have come here if they had been aware of the matter, creating enemies, or fueling hostility, or having the ability to rule by making divisions clear, if they had known that I was wrong, they would not have come here. Why? I know from there, so I don't blame anyone, I don't want to use anything too hurtful, it's a very complicated process. Why? I read it first -- here's Mr. Mithat Hodja, I shared it with him -- I said, "Master, they're probably going to bring it in today because it's written on a back page of the Civil Charter, and no one's going to be able to vote for it in 24 hours, so nobody's going to bother to look at it -- especially what's behind it and what's behind it. Suddenly, Congressmans, this was actually supposed to be discussed on Wednesday, because the council that prepared it hadn't thought to look back on that page. There's another dimension, but it's not relevant, so I have to use the time really carefully, so let's get back to the issue. Now, we had a road ahead of us. Whether or not I can properly identify logarithm in the region... and sociological issues don't immediately measure results in truth, in the sense of error, so I'd like to think maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm missing mine and I'm wrong, and I'm saying that by leaving this part. But how do we find the right one? With your shareholders, your side, the world of science, the idea world, all of them discussing this matter on good and healthy grounds, we can only determine a path from here with a minimum error, or that would be the result if you gave it to us, like a pathology science. This is the most important way that humanity has discovered, together, not as an electrical problem, but as an absolute but as an act. And that's why we've been able to get an advance on the balance of a hundred years from all this imperialist Talan, because it's once been the crown of this land and it's embraced it, with this consultation, with pleasure, debate, with current concepts, with the search conferences, whatever you want to call it. We sacrificed these methods to the hammock, one, conjunctured, two. What was that conjunctural? It was the situation in the Middle East. I'll come to the end of the defense after I tell you that. What was the conjunctive in the Middle East? When you look at your actors, there's an equation that even the most indifferent of us can come to a conclusion. What is it? Iran: One of the founding actors and historical actors in the region. America: What is it? A structure that has plundered the land's underground riches, the wealth of the peoples, its resources, its impacts, its blood, its exploitation, its peoples have turned against each other. Russia: How do I regain the influence field of the ancient era, and how do I get my old position in transitioning from the ancient bipolar world to a world that is only under American control? With what? With a gun. So, with this gun, with this power, do we have a infrastructure, necessity, or logistics that can run with countries in the region that can ride in Shii vein, Sunni vein, secular vein, region peoples, historical contradictions, modern paradigms? We're not. So what could we do? With our democratic experience, in all these equations in the region, we could be different from all of them, whether you call it America or Russia. Let's start with Iran; see what Iran is doing, what we can't do: it's in every development in the region, and there's a task force involved in the situation. You see, there is nothing in Iran's history and in the field of influence until that day, when there is Lebanon Hezbollah, you see a Syrian Hezbollah -- our interested friends know it very well -- it's a day's notice. You're looking at the Kerkuk-Telafer-Musul line, a Hashdi Shabi, which has never been seen in any embryo, which doesn't match the historical values of Iran, and you're looking at the reason why it hasn't been seen in its history, there's a significant amount of Sunnis in it. So according to the mission, there are countries in the region that can take on their own regional interests, who can do what they need to do, and there are countries like us on the hammock horse, who are having a hard time understanding things correctly at first, in which conjunctive debates are being overwhelmed and surrounded by various types of paranoia, and we have a radical, genuine, bold way of making sure no one can make a bold move on their way out of it. I'm not talking about any Kurdish, Turkish, Arabism, Sunniq, Shiilik, if we give what's going on to a foreign court official, brother, how is that possible? I'm trying to take a picture with the sentences he's probably going to say; it can't even be done. I mean, I remember here, we had a secret hearing on this Syrian matter, what was the result of the secret hearing? The architects of this policy will come, and they'll tell us, if there's anything we don't know about it, to the elected legitimate representatives of the people. Mr. Davutoglu came, and we were happy like children in the thousands of horsemen. He gave a speech that could be summed up. We haven't learned a new situation, and we haven't learned what it takes to bring down our national resources, our historical engagements, our alignments, what we're going to do, why, what we're going to do, if one of the MPs in that session understands it, I'm going to be a fool of my own; because it didn't exist. I've said this before as a teenage imam oratorial reflex, saying I didn't use them in a way that would compromise or offend them. Why? It's riding the hammock. But international politics doesn't work that way. But there's a second one, what's that? Don't let the Kurdish motherfucker see it. Because when we look at these engagements, alliances, these illegal expenditures, even the way it's reflected in the public, we can see that no rational and pragmatic step towards regional logarithm can be taken, which is the total benefit of the country. There's no ministry for people who can talk about it, let alone a bureaucratic office, let alone a public place where their voices are heard, they're tolerated, they can't get into this public space. Then I'll make the best move. There's no shortage of workers. They have no sense of responsibility. What will we answer to tomorrow? They are not even familiar with the sense of responsibility. Such a group has mortgaged the fate of our future children. The secret is simple, act together. Come, brother, let's not be enemies, let's be kin and talk. A sustainable negotiation is more preferable than any other condition. It's a sustainable negotiation. For that, you will not renounce your Turkishness, nor your Kurddom, nor your sanctity, nor your ideology, nor any of that, my brother. But what this does is take this to a level of non-compete, and it forces us, our resources, and most of all... In a previous conversation, I've always made a reference to the history of the eunuch. See, we all have an anecdote in elementary school that, if we have to, we all have to crash at atlastan, libastan, ibism or something. Knowing the rest is enough to make us sane. The dialogue continues: "Yes, if necessary, we will rebuild our navy, you know, the sails, the sails, the cords, but what about the levents that are leaving? We can't bring them back. It's the historical anecdote. There's not a historian who explains this part. They're talking about drinking camel piss, discussing the sex of angels -- that's what it means -- but we're not listening to anything that's wise from their mouths, that's modern, that's burning, and that doesn't include a hammock about issues that take our future hostage. To hell with it! To argue on its axis is to die or to live. But other than that, there must be a way, and it's a compromise, and it's a joint act. The only condition that we can be regional actors is that we can offer a democratic offer to the region, not to be in others. America, US-YPG co-operation; PYD, you know, he's doing his agenda. There's debates and stuff like that. I swear to God, I'm ashamed of the people who run it. Well, America's looking at -- isn't that mind on our side of the government, not ours? - He's looking at Assad, brother, he doesn't have the power to form a system alone. The sunni line is facing him as it is. Why? Kurdish doesn't know an autonomy. So, looking, the other is the barbarism of ISIS, my brother, and this is not able to establish order in the region. When he turned his eyes... look at his literature, he was entertained by the government. And don't be fooled by the blasphemy today, because if we can have it together, we'll get out of the process. As for Alevi, Kurdish, Sunni, leftist, rightist, democratic denominator, and democratic tolerance is a necessary requirement, the rest is a week's work. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, the system's got us into this whole thing. I claim that the population of Turkey under 30 years of age, with the Kurdish population -- there's a large section around the government that doesn't see it or see it or keep it to themselves -- we have enough energy to support Turkey under 30 years of age and all of the West. But what is it? We're looking at the bans, the freedoms that unite, brother. Humanity has moved on from discussing it. Do they have the right to be themselves, to be able to express themselves, to be political, to be themselves in areas that others do not describe? No. We also discovered the State of Emergency that even the ability to form a political party depends on their permission. I mean, if Mr. President starts talking in the name of God, he'll love it. Is there a State of Emergency in his power? Can this land be delivered from the hair curls of this country's hairdresser to men whose bread will be taken from them, to women, to a nonsense called GERAL? You can't do anything about your politics, your decision process, your mechanics, your part of the mistake, but you don't have any idea of the responsibility for that; you're left to deal with the poor. One in fact, the perpetrator doesn't exist in Turkey, or if you look into what's going on, it's either 5 percent or you come back, you're still holding a chain of measures that don't stop... Well, will it work? It won't. On what condition? These kind of structures... what do you call them? So let me try to make it clear: you know, when we think of these structures as dark centers, the sun is transparency; what these structures are most afraid of is transparency, democratic environments. How could he have created a field of existence for himself? They've created themselves in areas where you're not transparent, you're not controlling, you're not allowing competition. And as long as that happens, these or others will continue to exist. I've found the concept of transparency, democratization, it's pantherine, I've been thinking about it for two hours; that's the antidote. Now, all of this doesn't exist; without all of this, there's been so much confusion of concepts, and so much, history is trying to be one-sided. We, think, have served together in the last three years of the last six years of this country, there are so many trustees here, from all parts of society, different beliefs, different ethnic bases, so many of them, one of them coming up from morning to evening, from night to night, from every floor where they've been spoken of, cursed, insulted. Listen to us. That's not the way it is, that's the way it is. It's not the way it's meant to say it. This alone shows that those who have this argument do not trust this argument. If you can afford it, let's go to the public together, if you can be sure of what you think, what has happened in the process of resolving; who has done what is lacking; who is responsible, whose is the blame, and whose is the neglect; let us discuss it, and let the people decide. Well, that's not it. For us, the last opportunity was the seat of parliament, facing these immunitys, the impacts on this political destruction operation -- it doesn't mean anything personally -- but it helps to slay the common hope of life and the common future of this country. Now, let me ask you. You put the Kurd at once, and we did it. You will take this vote... I'm ending with this, Mr. President. It's been two hours?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0156par0362	Yeah, it's been two hours. And by the way, I'm guessing my friends are probably back from the womb.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0155par0363	If they've returned from the womb...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0156par0364	People came back, people went back. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0155par0366	I'm not sure if it's my right or my right, but I'd like to give you a piece of advice. Now, today will seem insignificant, and the consequences will not be measured today, but in the future, hopefully history will rebut me, and I'm ready to carry that shame like a medal of honor. Salt, you're not voting for the delegation of these two deputies, it seems, not limited to him. It's not just that our co-chairs don't stay in jail. It doesn't matter that our only elected mayors are still being held without evidence, the only concrete case that could be subject to various charges. There's a Rojava reality here, and you say we don't build it. That's how the new imperialism works. You're talking about what I'm saying. It's so comfortable, so confident that the state has a minimum state responsibility. Either my brother, there are 20 million Kurds in my country. When I say to these things, does the glory of them be restored? For five minutes, he does not reflect. Now, he's shown the ability to establish order there, where he's become a guarantee of the safety of the Turkmen's lives, not just of their safety, but of Turkmen's ability to remain Turkmen, to express himself, to build the mechanisms, to build monotheism -- never mind these psychological warfare arguments. He's going to take off, you're going to say, "I won't. As you say, Russia, Iran, America, he's going to rub his hand there, he's going to be there; you're going to tell Kurd here that the deputy you've chosen, my brother, they're going to bring peace, they're going to build it, they're going to take it out of your life, your blood, your time, and they're going to send it here in a thousand times, and they're going to build it. With our glory and honor, we can live as equal, honorable sons of this land, and we can live as ourselves. You will receive the trustees that he has sent with the thought of us, and then you will imagine a common future in unity, unity, and unity. I'd like to think you didn't imagine it that way. The big mistake of this painting is that we do it today, and when there's an election tomorrow, we say that Kurdish, Kurd's feelings, Kurd's reflexes... When it comes to what you call human, the results of many of your plans, which seem rational on this paper, are irrational. Just look at history. Isn't it even degrading that I would stand up if I were in power in the Civil Code debates of this country's Parliament? I would say, brother, if that's how it's understood, we'll live. You know, there's the only time you've ever been to a party where you've talked a lot about it, at the mall, at the school, at the classroom, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, at the school, you'd be collecting fines; in your papers, at your archives, you'd pass it, you'd argue about it, you'd argue about it. We're aware of that, so we're going to stand up, so we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up, we're going to stand up. The key is to come to the point of action together; to base democratic politics, transparency; not attempt to discipline those who do so with punishment, with prisons, with hunger, with exile. With that respect, I'd like to say that this vote is not just a vote of attorneyship... In the last words, it was so unrelated that it burned me, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, that it was not an issue of absence, but that the PKK would drown you with its saliva. You know, a man should study a little bit, he was our alleged deputy Abdullah Zaydan, who was accused of what he said, and they sentenced him to eight years, but they divided those eight years into five years and three years. Why? So that he doesn't go to the judge, that he'll be punished by the indictment as soon as possible. There's no such thing as my dream at the moment. In the matter of the funeral, the MPs from the EC PARTY are involved in these funerals. It's happened to all of us, it'll happen to all of us. I end by reminding you of a very important motto: a judgment from the dead and the crazy, and from then on, it's gone to another stage, in another account range, it's up to us to do what we need to do with our minimum humanity and our beliefs. Do it, dwell in your palace, and destroy it, and sit in your ruins. We are at a fork called the road. I'd like to thank all the MPs who are here, who are listening to the end, for their patience, and for their attention. I salute you all. The last word to our chosen ones in prison: You are all our honor. We never dropped the flag you left, we won't drop it, no matter the cost, no matter what the cost, but it's the common future of this country we're worried about, we're worried about, we're trying to make. Long live the free, equal and fair brotherhood of the peoples. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0157par0373	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0158par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0157par0375	Just a second, I'll listen to you. The talks on the commission report were completed at 8:19 p.m. today. According to Article 138 of the Interior Charter, the open vote of the Commission's Report, which envisions the reduction of the parliamentary power of Van MP Tuğba Hezer Ozurk, will be held 24 hours after the meeting is completed. Come in, Mr. Erol, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0159par0379	Sir, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0157par0380	Here, I promise you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0159par0383	Mr. President, I apologize to the entire General Assembly for interfering with Mr. Orator Sýrý Bey's speech just now, because from the day I was elected MP, I'm a man who's chosen to act as a man of the rules of courtesy of the House. This is the first time I've stepped in from my seat, and I apologize, and I apologize to the preacher. Because for a moment, I forgot the character of the vet. Mr. Sýrý Bey is a really good screenwriter, he's writing a good script. He himself, of course, was the first person to receive a greeting from Apoh, for his past duties and for the responsibility given to him, who was thanked in the newspaper ad, for his indiscriminateness. One of the deepest problems in our region is confessionism, so if you're against someone, you're afraid of them, you're acting against them, you're acting against them, you're confessing to them with false accusations, and you're controlling them. Sırı Bey, the Republican People's Party's MPs were elected by the primary election, not Kandil. We're one of those pre-elected MPs. When our name is mentioned in the Kandil, it comes from our loyalty to our government, to our nation, to our flag; it does not come from our betrayal. You must have mixed up the candidates or mixed up the names. We also recognize you from your candidacy for the mayor of Istanbul. If there's much to discuss with you, I'll tell you a lot backstage, but I've done a political assessment without making any personal comment, without making a personal assessment, and I've said it's wrong to remove the immunity of lawmakers, and it's wrong to drop them. So I made a political assessment, and I didn't deal with anybody's personality, and I shared my own concern for life, my own concern. Besides, I've been the one who donated his salary to students in this House since the day he was elected, so I'm not the one who went out and spent my salary in the fun spots of Niggastone. I know who's what, but I don't want to take it this size. In Kandil, in Dolmabahçe... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, if I may request an additional moment, that was a very serious accusation.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0160par0390	Sir, please complete your sentences.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0159par0391	This is the last thing I want to say to Sirir Bey...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0160par0392	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0159par0393	In politics, kindness is supposed to be tolerance. I understand your concern because on June 7th, Tunceli was not elected MP, and on November 1st, I'm the only MP you've ever had with the Republican People's Party. And we, with our march and our rally, will also take the mayorate of Tucson next semester. I understand your concerns. Courage is not walking everywhere. Well, if you're so brave, let's go visit Nejmudtin teacher's grave and visit his family. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0161par0397	Here you are, Mr. Commander. I'll give you two minutes for the same reason. Please, let's finish this polemic, let's not prolong it at this blessed hour of the evening. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0162par0402	From going to his grave, Nejmudtin, your teacher, from praying to him, if possible... [[Interference between HDP and CHP rows]] Mr. President, why don't you cut it and reboot it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0161par0405	Congressmans, they're interfering with your group, but please... Guys, look, the preacher's on the stand, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0408	Wait a second, guys... Mr. Erol, it's only been two and a half hours, and we all remember what I've answered to you, what you've accused us of, with a two-hour memory. The worst, most unacceptable part of your speech is to make us, the politicians you see here, the elected deputies like yourself, responsible for all this violence. Are you insulting our intelligence? I don't want to use any hurtful words, I want to end this here.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0161par0410	Please, let's be careful.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0411	That's our objection, we can't accept it, we owe history. Yes, in the name of Ocalan, I've done all the work you've said, they're the pages of my history. And it will continue to be. This Pointstone, don't waste money... if your children are happy, if you have money, I can't bring the moon's head. No one's seen me at any of the fun spots, okay?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0164par0414	I described myself.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0415	Are you saying that you're... And what kind of social democratism is that? It's a private request from all the CHP friends to remind them of the fact that Jewish art, writers, theatre, whatever, is not an insult. I hear you're taking the City Hall. You see, that's something that can only be laughed at. I don't want any more...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0165par0418	You're the only ones laughing.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0419	I wish, I wish... when you put up a sign in your native language, it wasn't there for five minutes, so you took it down. Last word, when I was running for mayor, this happened...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0166par0422	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0423	If you don't explain what happened when I was running for mayor, you're the most dishonorable man in the world. Just tell me, and I'll know when I'm running for mayor. You're the most dishonorable man...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0166par0424	Please don't use hurtful words.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0163par0425	I'll tell you about the Kandil size, what's going on, come back whenever you want, and come back with a witness, and I'll tell you about it one by one. And in the name of the righteous Father, I swear. Here we go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit03spe0166par0428	I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0166par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 118th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We begin negotiations with the Commission for the Commission for Compulsion of Turkey on the basis of the Constitution's 84th and Internal Charter on Articles 138, which was ranked in the 2nd place of Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldıldın's 2016 October, November and December. Members of parliament will not be asked to represent the government during the talks, as it is a matter of the functioning of parliament. The commission is in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 493 rows. The talks on the commission report will be held according to the 72nd and 138th amendments of the Civil Code, and the commission will be promised one member on behalf of political party groups, two members on behalf of individuals. Finally, it will be made a promise to the member of parliament who has been asked to lower his membership within the scope of the right of defence or to a member of parliament who will report to the defence. The deadlines are 20 minutes each for the Commission and political party groups and ten minutes for individuals. The defense will be given a reasonable time. Members of parliament, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0167par0014	Thank you. Mr. President, on the grounds that you do not participate in the parliamentary work, the decision to reduce your parliamentary power has been made in the final joke of Article 84 of the Constitution: The application of this Constitution shall be decided by the vote of the ruling of the majority of members of the General Assembly on the basis of the Council's presidential Court on the basis of the fall of the MP's parliamentary power, which has not participated in parliament on a total of five days, without apology or without permission. The decision on HDP Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldı in October 2016, on the dismissal of the parliamentary legislature due to its lack of parliamentary power, which exceeds the five-year mergers in October, November and December came to the agenda of the Constitutional and Justice Commission, consisting of members of the Constitutional and Justice Commission. The most important data to participate in parliament's work are roll call from the General Assembly and the Commission meetings. The provisions on the roll call, absence, permit and attendance table have been ruled on Article 57/1, 151, 152, 153 and 154 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. To sum up these articles, in Article 57/1, the chairman of the General Assembly will make a roll call if he hesitates after opening the merger. According to Article 151, in the case of the president's roll call or open vote, the MP who does not have an apology or a permit will be eliminated in that merger. Again, on a written application, the president will be able to grant a congressman permission not to exceed ten days. Longer leave depends on the approval of the General Assembly as a result of the vote. According to Article 152, the Presidential Court will send the non-responsibility table published at least three times in a legislative year to lawmakers, and within seven days it has the right to appeal. According to Article 153, three months will be cut off from the road of the MPs, who have been destroyed in a year of legislation without permission and without an apology, more than 45 in total. According to Article 154, it is up to the General Assembly to grant funds and travel to lawmakers who have taken more than two months off in the year of law. In addition to the Constitution and the Civil Code regulations, there are also regulations that have become traditional and are part of Parliamentary law as a result of stable implementation. One of them is the recognition that all lawmakers participate in parliamentary work for that merger, if the president opens the merger in the General Assembly's work, and explains the number of meetings are sufficient based on the observation of the General Assembly. If you look at the arrangement in Article 57, what's really important is that the president who runs the House observes that the majority is not clear. So the basic point of view is belief that it is one of the main tasks of the nation's deputy to participate in the General Assembly's work. In this regard, inspection through observation has become a process that results in the preliminary acceptance of all MPs as to their presence in the General Assembly. As a matter of fact, it is known that not all 550 MPs were present at the General Assembly Hall when the Assembly opened, even in a brief glance at the MPs. There is no point in the non-responsibility table, and it is evident that many MPs have not participated in the Parliamentary studies. To give a concrete example of this situation: After an examination, we have a concrete example of the closure of the General Assembly without even reaching the number of 184 electronic votes held twice in a row over the requested roll-up. On the other hand, the Speaker has been authorized to allow for up to ten days, but the upper limit has not been determined. It is also possible that as long as the Speaker of Parliament allows and a member of parliament at the General Assembly to risk a three-month cut-off, he will not participate in Parliament's work at all. One of the rules is an excuse. Although the Civil Charter has been defined as unapparent, there is no written ruling on what it would be like not to participate in Parliamentary studies as disabled. In the application, parliament demands that it be considered an alibi for its non-accession work. Another team is that Parliament Speakers, vice presidents, executive supervisors, Court clerks, group presidents, group presidents, vice presidents, commissioners, and commissioners are not subject to the obligation to ignore the decision made into an application union of the Presidential Court. So a party group will be able to remove its MP from the polls of the General Assembly by assigning him to a post listed above. The conclusion that all of these evaluations have to be made is that the regulations that create the objective and application union in regard to roll call, permit and excuse issues have not been made. As a result of the failure to live up to elaborate written regulations, parliamentary tradition may also turn out to be a provision that will be ignored by subjective assessments of long-term savings. Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldı has not come to the Commission regarding the allegations against him, has been defended by another MP and submitted the three-page defence to the Commission's information. In his defence, he received a report from the home physician that it was medically objectionable to travel for three months due to hepatitis B and liver lubricant disease, which he was in federal Germany during the time of his absence of Parliament's work, that this report, which was passed through the consulate's approval, was sent into the mail to be delivered to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, but it was reported that the report taken from the consulate, which had been sent through the consultation, had been sent to the parliament's work, that it had been ordered to be reduced by the State Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, but that it had not been launched by the party, which had been appointed by the party. The reason for the decision of the Karma Commission on lowering parliamentary power by majority vote is the fact that it is not true that lawmakers are ready for inspection based on inspection based on consultation, that they are clear that they are abroad during the specified time, that the commission report issued by the hospital and that the report carried out by the federal Germany was decided that it is not fengished, and that it should be dismissed from the Parliament's work more than five months ago. In accordance with Article 80 of the Constitution, lawmakers represent the entire nation, not the district or those who choose themselves. Therefore, it is common for a member of parliament to work fully in the country's constituencies, to visit the electoral zones, to conduct an examination, even to be out of the country, if necessary, if necessary. But the main thing for a congressman is to participate in Parliament activities. The parliamentary legislature's legislature and audit duties make it mandatory for lawmakers to participate in Parliamentary work. As a matter of fact, the General Assembly's working days have been set for Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in the Interior Charter, and the remaining days have been intended for lawmakers to set aside time for other tasks. Therefore, it is unacceptable for a member of parliament to have long been absent from Parliament's work without an apology or permission. However, in this case, the reduction of the parliamentary power due to the absence is a process that has not been implemented in the Parliamentary legislature, even though it is part of our Constitution. As a matter of fact, Article 153 of the Civil Code has been decreed that a three-month cut-off of a person who was found without an apology and without permission in the year of his life. So five combinations are a sign that for an arrangement that will lead to a fall, there should be no way that further interruptions should be applied, in fact, to reduce the power of parliament. In this sense, the basic rule should be that the legislation is to be maintained and not to be referred to as delegating. Despite all these issues, the reduction of parliament is a constitutional arrangement, and it is also a political choice because the majority of parliament depends on the elder's will, but the basic rule, as I said above, should be that the MP will continue the law. Dear lawmakers, it is useful to make an assessment of the special situation of Faysal Sarıyıldıldı, as well as the absence of observational inspections. First, ignoring the vote under observation will negatively affect the situation of many lawmakers in the future. For example, five years later, a member of parliament currently in office can be decided by voting the majority of the General Assembly for the reduction and extradition of the person's trust, if a review of sources such as the social media, local newspapers, shows that five mergers were out of parliament during a vote of observation. In fact, even daily control of the Capitol footage will put a lot of lawmakers in a position of debate. In this regard, it was not right to be asked to conclude by observation or without an open ballot table. Dear lawmakers, instead of this method, it would be more appropriate to submit a notification to the current MP and draw a conclusion based on parliamentary work and the results of the electronic vote. On the other hand, Faysal Sarıyıldı has submitted a report to the Parliament, which has been examined at Ankara Numune Hospital as a hospital, and the report given by the delegation report has not been in accordance with the science of Germany. If Faysal Sarıyıldıldız claims that he did not travel in future, depending on the doctor's report content, and that this report is not a science report, he will not know his expertise, it may be possible that he will confront our country with compensation in international law. In this regard, if there is a report from the home physician in Germany, there is a major flaw in the absence of the analysis supplements and the absence of a second report from the Numune Hospital report. This method will challenge attempts by sending reports by the new physician to long-term political preferences that the referee is not fennel by being sent to health care agencies, resulting in the reduction of his deputies for all lawmakers. This is a worrying attitude for all lawmakers, an act of conduct. The polls, under observation, are seen as a procedure that precludes non-responsibility for all MPs. Therefore, it was not right to bring which vote was open and which was conducted through observation into the General Assembly phase without being investigated. As a result, an MP's primary duty should be to participate in Parliamentary studies and to defend himself within parliamentary law, if necessary. However, we find it appropriate that this initiative, which appears to be in accordance with the constitutional arrangement and, ultimately, is a political preference for the majority, be carried out in a more thorough and legal manner, and in this context, have the distinction of consultation and open voting, be asked for tests through the doctor's report, and take more concrete steps, if necessary, by receiving a second report. Above all, instead of making an assessment of the MP's personality, this practice should be considered to have negative consequences for many lawmakers in the future. In this respect, the Republican People's Party says that we do not approve of the deputation of acting, the commitment to the will of the majority without the objective criteria and regulations, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0168par0035	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan will speak on behalf of the individuals. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0169par0040	Dear President, dear congressman friends, fellow writers and fellow press workers, I salute you all. I think the real greeting from this place is to tell our two fellow Regents that they're coming today because they're not here in person, and they're deprived of the opportunity to defend themselves. Our dear friend has just elaborated on the requirements of our situation in the direction of the rules of procedure. They had two legal sources in this statement, one of which was the Civil Code and, of course, before that, the Constitution, more importantly. In the Constitution, yes, there is an arrangement for the reduction of the parliamentary power. However, I would like to point out that despite the circumstances under which the parliamentary position should be reduced, it is the latest in the matter of reducing membership due to the absence, and that this is not a material that can be used immediately and can be applied immediately. The first is that the Civil Charter 135/ also mentions resignation in Article 83 of the Constitution, the final judgment, the final judgment, the constraints, the insistence on non-membership work, and the Parliament talks about not attending its studies without an apology and without permission. Now, dear friends, the trick is that when we're going to vote here, we need to look carefully at the legal grounds when we're going to reduce the duties of a chosen member of parliament to represent a large group of people like ourselves in difficulties. What is this? I've just stated, not to show up without permission or apology. Now, the practice here has reached a conclusion, both in the Karma Commission and in the Commission, that its reports are not valid in the application regarding Faysal Bey, and that their apology is not accepted because the reports are not valid. Now, dear friends, just because you're not sorry doesn't mean you can only submit a health report. Now, let's take a look at the concrete situation of this friend of ours. Where did he serve as a deputy? He served in Cizre. As he served in Cizre, curfew was declared here starting on December 14, 2015. We've all lived here together, following the curfew, what kind of problems arise. In particular, the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) friends have told us over and over again about the problems in the southeast, where they mentioned that some illegal procedures and actions were being done in the name of security; in general, we have covered our ears and tried not to hear it. Remember, here yesterday, our fellow trustees rightly spoke of floods in their territory, they talked about earthquakes, they talked about problems with plants. I mean, we're both on legislature duty and audit duty here, and what is our mission? It's about moving the problems of the cities we represent, the populations we represent here. Staying in a region where there is a curfew, therefore many different problems, where vital problems are born, means being disabled, does not mean being disabled, indicates the obligation to deal with concrete events there, and as long as you are there, you are trying to solve their problems by sharing your own citizens' lives with your own constituents, by sharing them with your own constituents. I think that's where the first wrong app came from. Another thing, again, as a former lawyer, very soon, before my proxy was finalized, I had an incident like this. A young person reports that he is disabled, that he cannot start the army, and he sends his report abroad and asks for an alibi. But you know how long it takes to get reports from abroad -- let's just say, correct -- you know how long it takes for the letters to arrive. The student has no opportunity to send more urgent mail with the money he has, so how does he put it in the mail? Under normal circumstances. Although it was given on time, the letter failed to reach the military branch, so it was agreed that the boy had failed to serve, and we had to file a lawsuit against it, and we also had to sue the post office; this may be part of the detail. I'd like to point out that while we make a legal decision, we have to follow the legal rules. Where do we fit in? First, we will obey the Constitution. What does the 10th article of the Constitution say? He talks about the principle of equality. What does the principle of equality command? In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- my friends who spoke ahead of me have highlighted this -- is there any way that we can properly, with evidence, be able to prove that we're all in Parliament at all times, together with official evidence? There's a number of roll calls that have been passed through observation, and who's here, who's not here. For example, until very recently, can we see our fellow prime minister here, or can we see our fellow ministers here? If there is tolerance for them and there is no tolerance for another people, there is a political choice under it, and political choice first makes us imperfect at the principle of equality of the Constitution. It makes a parliament guilty of law enforcement, a parliament responsible for law enforcement. We're not being equal, so we're not doing an equal practice. So what do we do? We see as a political rival, our congressman, or his party, and his political opponent, whatever it is, trying to eliminate and defeat it in illegal ways. I regret to inform you, my friends, that in this Parliament, 11 of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and 1 of our MPs from the Republican People's Party are in prison. The real reason for this exercise is that our friends at the ruling party, in opposition, are insufferable and unlawful. Insufferability may be a humanitarian event, but lawlessness is a way that parliament, parliamentarians, will not resort to. These friends of ours are facing a breach of law, and we see it clearly. Its political purpose here is to eliminate the principle of equality, the Constitution, which points to the political preferences in the eyes of the law, and the need for them to be equal in terms of their race, religion, language, as well as the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey, if these friends stay away from their parliamentary position today, or tomorrow, after their legal term has passed, when we reduce their position by voting, the fact that the abortion of the 84th article and the following article will be presented before us, and if such a decision is made -- I hope that such a decision will not be made, but -- and if the Constitutional Court remains as a legal court, if it stays out of influence -- which we now debated in the matter of our friend, which we now argue, as we now have, in a second issue, has been placed in the case of our friend, as a weapon, has been placed in his car. I tried to point here yesterday. We can't find a citizen population where we can act together in an environment where we accuse everyone who thinks differently than we do, friends, we can't find a citizen population that we can serve; we can open up a relationship with the public. Our dear friend, who just spoke, used a sentence like this, and I tried to write it down here, perhaps a sentence we've heard a lot of times, but he said: "The law divides, the freedom unites. " Prohibitions divide us, bans divide us, bans destroy the unity of our country. So, let us first, let us get rid of the bans between us, and let us get rid of the barriers between ourselves, and let us be united for our own legal, constitutional, moral, and conscientious decisions. If we can't do that, let's really think about how much the voters who chose these kinds of decisions will suffer, how much this pain will lead them to rebellion, and how people who are smart, who are on the side of human rights, who are on the side of equality will react to such a situation, and they will be filled with a grudge against each other. Let's not cause this. From here we create unity, from here we create humanity. That's an opportunity we have. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0170par0052	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Now, no more words. The last word is for the defense. On behalf of Faysal Sarıyıldız, I promise to defend you. I hope you'll be done in a reasonable time. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The truth is, there's a vote in 24 hours, but I'm going to be speaking to my fellow lawmakers here to represent the defense against the removal of this immunity, but I'm going to explain my defense, which is quite incomplete. It's quite a relief to say, of course, that we have about 12 friends, except for the opposition, in terms of power, unfortunately, in numbers. And that's for the record. Twenty-four hours from now they will vote, two MPs who have received hundreds of thousands of votes, two MPs who received 6 million votes, are being deputized, both against the law and with political merits, and on a day in the history of Turkey, which will mark the decades ahead, even a hundred years, as a shame page, unfortunately, only opposition here. Of course, I would also like to thank my fellow lawmakers from the ruling party who are here, in particular. I'd like to start by counting my friends in prison. Currently, I salute Abdullah Zeydan, our Co-Chair, Figen Yüksekdağ, Çağlar Demireli, Besime Konca, Farhat Encu, Selma Irmak, Gülser Yıldırım, and Abdullah Zelahtin Demirtaş, who is still in Sincan Prison; and Abdullah Zeydan, our Co-Chair and Co-Chair in Edirne Prison in Silivri Prison. Their place is never within four walls, but it will still remain a stain on Turkey's political history. Our arrested co-chairs are so many -- of course, we have a list, but -- I'd like to remember a few of our friends and party members here before we count them all. Dear Gültan Kışanak, the Co-Chair of the Metropolitan Municipality, is again our former İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel, who is both in Kandira Prison; Derim Mayor Nurhat Altun, who is also in Kandira Prison; former Class MP Edibe Şahin, Kandira Prison; Siirt Municipality Co-Chair Tuncer Bakırhan, Siirt Prison; and also Siirt Municipality Co-Chair Belşa Epözdemir, Siirt Prison. And I want to greet all of our co-chairs, who are still in prison, with respect, love, longing. Now, frankly, the word is defense. Before I go into what I have to say, I'd like to read the written argument sent by our deputy, Faysal Sarıyıldıl, who sent it to the Commission, and then I'll tell you what I'm going to say. Despite all our objections, a process that the majority intended to pressure the opposition was launched under the roof of the TBMM. Although I did not object to the non-responsibility table and did not report my health report covering the relevant dates, my objection to Parliament Speaker's Decision 39, dated 31 May 2017, has been rejected, and my file has been submitted to the Karma Commission under Articles 84 (Iconstitution of the Constitution), Article 138 (Islamic Commission). First of all, there is an unconstitutional situation in the process itself. As it is known, commissions established under parliament should be created and processed according to the principle of community benefit, not in the political interest of running it. However, this Commission does not serve such a purpose. For the first time in the 90-year history of Parliament, the establishment of a commission stemming from the absence of MPs, it is clear that hundreds of MPs are having problems with the absence, while the reduction of my person and Van MP Tuğba Hezer Özturk's deputyship as well as the fact that he has arrived with the General Assembly today is the objective and what is its service. Every opposition party is targeted, MPs are tried, tens of thousands of officers are on trial, academics are expelled from the work of peace seekers are turned into deserts, the position of deputy of two parliamentarians in a country where dozens of journalists are in prison shows that the government is not afraid to use all kinds of difficult and suppressive devices. Following the Commission for the removal of parliamentary immunity, serious public concerns have been raised that the subcommittee set up to reduce only 2 HDP MPs due to the failure of the MP has been launched after the June 7, 2015 elections and that political operations launched against Peoples' Democratic Party MPs have been under way. After the removal of parliamentary immunity from lawmakers on May 20, 2016, hundreds of proceedings against my fellow and party lawmakers were carried out by Parliament Speakers, and ten of our MPs, including our co-chairs, were arrested on November 4, 2016, under central and simultaneous operations. The entire process was directly linked to the 13.1 per cent of my party's vote in the June 7, 2015 elections. Following a major election success in Turkey's political history that upsets the balance, President Erdogan, who, according to the AKP government and the Constitution, must be neutral, has acted as if ignoring the polling results, setting the stage for the reboot of the conflicted environment. "I do not find the agreement of the Dolmabahçe after seven months after the June 7, 2015 elections, which meant that the solution process would be ended politically. The election success turned into the disaster of Erdogan and the AKP government, and the process of resolving the air strike after the July 20, 2015 Suruç massacre was effectively terminated. Since then, Turkey has suffered an economic and political disaster, so to speak. The AKP government and President Erdogan did not hesitate to use all of the state's resources for black propaganda against our party after the June 7th elections. Lois Althusser sums up the situation we're in right now as she talks about how the difficult and ideological devices of the state are being used by power as a means of exploitation and oppression. The AKP's power, police, military, courts, and prisons, as well as one of its ideological devices, has tried to use its media power in uncompromisingly to criminalise opposition MPs, trying to strengthen its hegemony by illegal means and methods. The political power, which cannot defeat its opponents through democratic ways and methods, is trying to defeat them by force and deception, thus trying to purge democratic politics. The chaotic situation, which deepens day after day after day when the law is underfoot, deepens the crisis of failure of power. The medialisation of law and the transformation of opposition into the Sword of Demoklesin cause severe criticism both in the country and abroad. In the Constitutional Court and the ECHR decisions, this has been openly debated. Under Article 18 of the European Convention on Human Rights, basic rights and freedoms have been tried to prevent the abuse of public power. With this clause, it is intended to block the way for law to be made a tool for political purposes. Therefore, it is openly against both the Constitution and the ECHR to reduce the surrogacy due to non-existence. This commission, established to reduce my representation, will also go down in history as a record of irregularity and double standard in the history of parliament. The legislature law of parliament has also fallen underfoot. Under the roof of parliament, there are laws that have never been unique. Article 138 of the Parliamentary Court, which regulates the absence of MPs, does not discriminate between MPs according to their parties. This clause must be applied equally to all MPs. The basic requirement for preventing discrimination on any subject is an equal and just practice. However, it appears here that the process is not being carried out by MPs in a similar situation, but by two MPs, including myself alone. The relevant article and laws of the Civil Code have been bent and twisted by political power into an instrument of oppression over opposition. Although I have shown similar behavior with the other MPs, I am subject to a different treatment only to the fact that I am a HDP MP. While the commission process is being run on my behalf, the immunity of some MPs is a violation of the Constitution's principle of equality. The General Assembly meetings are known to be opened with observation or roll call, according to the decision of the Speaker or Vice President who heads the meeting. All MPs are considered present during consultations. There is no indication of which sessions on the list have been opened with observation and which ones have been opened with a roll call. My doctor's report to the presidency is invalid. However, based on this doctor's report, it has been said that I have been ignored. If so, why is my medical report invalidated? In consultations under observation, it was established that the MPs were considered to be available, while the game of sleuthing was launched under the name of the discovery of financial truth. If the commission proceeds on the basis of financial facts, it will be revealed that many MPs in Parliament have been absent, which is definitely not the way to go. A deputy's statement must be sufficient. A government that ignores the proxy statement, doesn't respect the proxy, will give the most of its current ruling representatives a headache in the future. But here the law of the fittest is enforced. Lawmakers of the ruling party, who were once underdogs, need to know that justice is needed for everyone. Is there a legal explanation for the fact that my health report has been ignored and that I have been cut down on the basis of this, even though there are lawmakers present who have not made an excuse? The health report that I sent to the Speaker of Parliament has been rejected due to the lack of procedure, and it is clear that after I renewed the report in a manner required, it was a political stance that the report did not enter the presidential records for several days due to some bureaucratic obstructions. When the report reached the Presidential records, it was shamefully invalidated by a hospital. The AKP government, which is responsible for implementing the existing laws, has violated the law itself in order to create legal, constitutional grounds for our delegation. On March 3, 2017, I received T.C. Another medical report I handed over to the Stuttgard consulate should be approved and returned immediately, but months later, it has not yet been approved and submitted to our side due to illegal orders from the government. The fact that my first medical report is open for discussion, that the following reports are being held at the consulate, the establishment of a team responsible for investigating my proxy activities, and the fact that my daily activities have been investigated will be a great shame in the history of the House. It is necessary to see my representation unfairly and unlawfully wanting to be reduced by a complete double standard, as a continuation of a political lynching campaign launched by President Erdogan and the AKP government for my personal interest. Before immunity was lifted, the slander campaign, which was launched by Erdogan himself on charges of carrying a gun in my car at the Syrian border, was denied by the prosecutor who prepared the trial, but the lynching campaign against me continued without delay. Although the prosecution's own indictment has made it clear that such an accusation was not filed, Erdogan has continued in this case and has repeatedly raised the immunity of HDP MPs on my behalf. During the months-long curfews in Kurdish cities, numerous rights violations, particularly the right to live, have been reflected in reports of numerous national and international NGOs. I was in Cizre on December 14, 2015, during curfews that continued for seventy-nine days. During that time, I saw it as one of the duties of being a deputy to tell the public what was going on in Cizre. Because I'm a live witness to the violence of young people burned in the basements, and I've tried to tell the world as much as I can, I've become the AKP government and Erdoğan's target. The will of thousands of voters who voted for me in my person is to be reduced. The political power, which has said that the will of the nation is above all else, has not hesitated to put it in its tongue for fifteen years, shows again which nation's will is precious to them. This is most damaging to Parliament's reputation. The sense of justice is severely wounded. It seems that the government has long forgotten the belief that justice will one day be needed for everyone. It is known that the word "hukuk" comes from the right. It is widely accepted by the community, where there is a concept of power-based law, not based on rights, and its trust in the judiciary is now very low. The government and those who are political partners of the government these days need to know that a government that has lost the principle of justice has signed its own death warrant. And the AKP government is at the edge of the cliff. 26. Term Şırnak MP (Current Şırnak MP) Dear MPs, I have read the defense of our Şırnak MP first. Now, I'm going to try to explain on his behalf both the minutes of the Commission and the practices against our party as well as the attacks on our party as I turn my tongue, but before that, we need to know the connections of this as well as the dissolution of these immunitys today. This is not just an operation for Tuğba Hezer and Faysal Yellowstar. This is actually just one leg of a general concept, which begins with the plan to crash the National Security Council from the process of ending the resolution process, which has been decided on the National Security Council, much deeper. How's the HDP doing today? Let me just say to you, your group of valued lawmakers: some of us are here, we are participating in the General Assembly's work. Ten of our friends are on a freedom watch for democratic politics in Diyarbakir. 11 of our friends, Kandira, Sincan, Edirne and Silivri, are being held in prisons. Two of our MPs, Tuğba Hezer and Faysal Sarıyıldız, are in Europe. I'll tell you about our executives in a minute. Of course, I'd like to send my greetings to Tuğba Hezer and Faysal Yellowstar. Before we go back to the defense, I'd like to share with you right now the view in Diyarbakir. Please let the MPs here put themselves in the shoes of 10 MPs for a moment. At the moment, the dissolving, destruction, terrorism, criminalization, arrest, attack policies, the destruction of democratic politics as a whole, the acquisition of rights and freedoms, step by step in Turkey, a week of a month of democratic politics, freedom, justice and conscience in Diyarbakır. Yesterday, our Diyarbakır MPs made intense contact with the governor of Diyarbakır and the people involved. They explained that this watch was definitely part of democratic politics, essential, democratic response, that there was also a civil disobedience event on this issue, and that political parties didn't really need permission to do such activities, that the group meeting would be held at the Kosuway Park, and that this watch would be held afterwards, and that this event could be held at Diyarbakır. This morning, our deputies, the people, the NGOs, our party managers, went to the group meeting place together, and what did they face? As always, it is surrounded by a complete blockade, with TOMA, with panzers, with rangers, with law enforcement. Please check with social media where our MPs are sitting right now. It's in our accounts, it's in other accounts. Two floors of barriers, fences are surrounded, no citizens are allowed to go to lawmakers, people, different NGOs and those who want to listen are not allowed to enter the group meeting. All around the TOMAs -- I don't know much about military vehicles -- but what are they called the others -- the rangers, the cars, they're all positioned there, military vehicles and police vehicles and friends in 55 degrees temperature. Only 10 of our fellow MPs, including our Party Speaker Osman Baydemir, our Deputy Chair Ahmet Yıldırım, Diyarbakır MPs Ziya Pir, Nimethullah Erdoğmiş, and Feleknas Uca. I hope I haven't forgotten anyone, who is also our spokesman for the Women's Assembly, Dilan Diryat Taşdemir, who is also our Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım, our İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0172par0085	Garo Paylan...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0086	Our Istanbul MPs, Hüda Kaya and Garo Paylan, 10 of our deputies, are currently on the first day of the 24/7 watch. I'd like to address the ruling party specifically -- including the Deputy Speaker of Parliament -- because our fellow MPs there are members of this Parliament, and they are currently exercising a democratic right. There must be a process against those who obstruct the use of this democratic right. On what orders and instructions does the governor of Diyarbakır refuse to allow our activity to be visited there? We're really looking for an explanation. The ruling party meets with thousands, tens of thousands, or fewer crowds, and the security forces that go there just to protect the flood, to prevent any damage and loss, and, of course, to protect the MPs and the citizens who are there. If it is the HDP and the same democratic response and resistance, why is there such a clear, obvious discrimination among parties? Once again, I would like to remind the Home Secretary of the House -- the deputy chairman of the group here -- and the Deputy Speaker of Parliament: This is our democratic right. If there is persecution, it is also a right to resist it, and we stand there, without allowing any violence, with great determination, to defend peace against war, against democratic politics against violence, and against life against death. We're on a justice watch there, we're on a conscience watch, and it shows again how scared the government is of these demands, how dangerous it thinks it is to be visible. The government will remove the blockade around our MPs in Diyarbakır immediately. Stop stopping the public from visiting their proxy. No matter what they do next week in Istanbul, the next week in Izmir, the last week in İzmir, one week in Turkey's Democratic Policy will be held for twenty-four hours, and every morning in the morning hours -- I think it was eleven, ten, or eleven -- our group will announce to the press there every day. Today, our friends, unfortunately, have to make a statement to the press from behind the fence -- the photos are coming to our group. Turkey's MPs are either held in real prisons or outside prisons, surrounded by police barriers. I'd like to remind you again of this matter with great importance. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, apart from that, I'd like to remind you in general how we came into the process of removing immunity. Now, as you all know, there is a period in Turkey called June 7th elections. Whatever happened, the end of the solution process, the issues before that, and the issues after that are actually going on within a chronology. What were they, really? First, of course, since I'm defending Faysal Yellow Star, I'd like to share a few anecdotes about him. Faysal Sarıyıldı is a MP, but he's always with his people, and he's an MP who's shielding himself with his life, and the whole world knows that and Turkey knows that. Who are we primarily responsible for as MPs? Of course we're responsible to the public. We need to answer that question. Faysal Sarıyıldız was elected for the second time by the people's votes and was sent to the Parliament by the Şırnaks to strengthen the faith in democratic politics and indeed hope for peace in order to address and address the problems of his people under Parliament. So, really, what can we say to the fact that a congressman's membership has been reduced due to roll call? Rest assured, I speak Turkish, I speak Kurdish, I speak a little English, so I know enough, a little Zaza, but there's no word against it. If I say it's a scandal, it's a terror. If I say it, it's a political operation. If I say it's a political operation, we all know it already; if I say it's Fascism, it's not even fascism; it's persecution. I want to ask you, I mean, Sırrıyya Önder told you about Davutoglu, and I'll tell another MP: Who saw Ali Babacan in Parliament? That reminds me.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0173par0092	Ali Babacan is coming.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0174par0093	Someone who's going on. He comes in order, he comes in regular.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0094	Who saw it? I know because I've been following Parliament on behalf of my group the most, as part of the mission, as a result of the assignment, that the last time I saw it was on May 20th, so let's open it up and see.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0175par0095	No, no, he keeps coming, he keeps coming.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0174par0096	No, no, he keeps coming.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0097	I mean, you say you're coming, but I'm here as much as you are. Come on, I'll be 70% your rate. For example, Ali Babacan is just an example, I can give you other MPs.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0174par0098	He's a regular, but he's not here.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0099	Now, those who have seen these immunitys dropped for inspection, outside parliaments will assume that at least 500 of the 550 MPs are here every day, in parliament, every day, there is no session, and we, as very regular lawmakers, are here for four days, five days of the week, signing autographs, and not only have the two HDP MPs joined 47. This is indeed a great heedlessness. How can such injustice be signed? Of course, it has nothing to do with the roll call, nor the procedure, that Faysal Yellow Star and Tugba Hezer have been demoted. Of course we don't make fun of our minds. Of course, we have to believe that... or the public, including 80 million citizens -- including your constituents, including the voters of all parties -- no one would think that Faysal Yellowstar and Tugba Hezer were reduced because they did not participate in the polls, because it's as clear as day. Well, there are 15 people in the room who are going to be demoted by two MPs; what else should we tell them? We're only here to vote. Twenty-four hours from now, the MPs will arrive and the MPs will say, "Let's drop the registrar." He will say -- I will read the opposition arguments in 1994 -- Turkey will discuss today for ten years, and the ruling party officials will come out and bring regrets, they will apologize, they will apologize, they will criticize, they will say, we did wrong. I personally have no doubt about it. So we say, "Come today before tomorrow, before you bring this regret later, don't say yes to the practices that lead this country to the abyss." I say we all take care of Parliament, politics and democracy. Now, what happened in the June 7th election -- let me take some history into the background? It was not yet June 7th, but as the rise and success of HDP has been seen, we have often listened to talks aimed at us. I have to tell you three hours, thirty-three hours, thirty-three days, not when I'm reading or trying to explain those targeted speeches here, because the ruling party officials were up, sleeping with us at night, waking up with us in the morning, every one of them was saying a word, pointing out to the HDP, and every one of them was forced to try to sabotage the election work. What happened? In Adana, my constituency -- I'll never forget this date because I was in the county building about 60 seconds after the bomb went off -- I was startled by a big explosion when I walked into the street without getting hurt or killed. Next thing I know, our county building's been bombed. May 18, 2015, how many days before June 7th? Three weeks ago. We went to the scene immediately, and the police arrived, and the crime scene investigators came, and the bomb was placed on the coffee table next to the table, and our Co-Chair Hüseyin White was still injured, our friends were injured, and there was no chance of death, but the building was unusable, and we couldn't do our election work in that building anymore. Well, you know what? Did the perpetrators get caught? No. Is the file open? No. Who dropped that bomb? We don't know, it's the easiest. They say, "We don't know." I've talked to the governor of the period, the police, many times, and I've been there as a candidate. Who dropped this bomb? At the same time, two bombs exploded at the same time in our Adana and Mersin County Building. At first, they said: "These are from Syria." Then other statements were made, and then other statements were made, and then, as we learned from the court members -- they didn't show it to us, they still didn't show it to us -- the defendants, those suspects, they were identified, but no one was caught. Then, a week later -- I remember it very well, I followed it very closely -- in the press, it was said that the perpetrator who bombed the Adana Province Building had fled to Syria. Yeah, well, if he was a perp, if you knew his name, why didn't you arrest him, why didn't you? Escaped or kidnapped, you took him to Syria, then ran away. News was made. And the May 18, 2015 case is still open. It's the first bomb attack on our party, so it's in a very important place. So, what was the other one? June 5th -- a date that will not be forgotten again -- two days before June 7th, just two days ago, in the middle of our Diyarbakır rally, bombs exploded at the rally site of hundreds of thousands of people. Five civilians lost their lives. Orhan Send - 6 civilians famous, adıyaman allegedly came from Adıyaman, of course I don't blame Adıyaman people, just because it's in the press and known, the Islamic Teapot...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0176par0103	The weavers...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0104	The Weavers' Tea January? I forgot, so I forgot the name of the teapot right now.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0177par0105	Islamic Tea January, weavers group.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0106	Islamic Teapot, I'm sorry. I mean, now that I'm verbal, I'm thinking... Do you know that the case against the June 5th massacre was today? And one defendant has been evacuated. People who attempt a massacre, who have not succeeded in the massacre, who have killed six people, are being released in front of the court. I just looked before I arrived, and the prosecutor was gracious and objecting. I mean, we don't know if anyone's bothered anymore. This is how we entered June 7th in an atmosphere like this. Of course, there have been numerous attacks on our election offices, our buildings, our booths, our candidates on June 7th. We had to walk around with guards and licensed weapons because there were attacks and attempts to attack us everywhere. I'll never forget, our Co-Chair Figen came to Adana from Antwerp, and a day ago, we received a serious report of his murder. In fact, Ankara confirmed it, and Mr. Yüksekdağ barely got rid of him in Antwerp, came to Adana, and we had to conduct our work with an incredible security cord. Why? We were partying, still partying, doing politics and going public. It's all in the records. We had to go to an atmosphere like this on June 7th. But despite all that... Of course, the purpose of these attacks, these bombings, these arrests was one: HDP must not cross the dam. In fact, it can't exceed the 10% threshold, let it run independently. I remind you in parentheses that if we cross the dam, the power alone would not be in power. The account was clear, they were in power if we didn't pass. Because on June 7th, we won the title of being the only party to knock it out of power. That's what this whole attack was about. The majority couldn't be achieved because the math was so clear, we wanted to be dropped. They failed, and what happened after that, after June 7th? We just got through July 20th, and it was a terrible day, and it was a terrible event -- really, 33 Turkish youths went from İzmir to İstanbul, from İstanbul to Antalya, from Antalya to Kayseri, from Adana to Hatay, 33 young people from Kobani to take toys and seedlings to children. Most of them were college students, and I know them very well because they were working with us in Adana. The children became the targets of ISIS. Why? Now, on July 20th, so long after June 7th, the young people who left Turkey -- not to mention the ethnic identity -- non-Kurdish, socialist, leftist, democrat, Muslim, Muslim, Muslim, wanted to be the peace bridge, and in Kobani, they wanted to extend a hand against the violence of ISIS, which was the goal of ISIS. Those who went to Suruç know it, and Mr. Dilek Ocalan, our deputy of Urbana, was here, and we had a chat yesterday. He saw the moment of disintegration, he left immediately, so I left. Really, it's not something that a person's conscience or his gut would ever accept. I spoke to the governor and the governor at the time. Suruç, with such a high security measure, we went and kept peace watch on the border, so that ISIS would not go away fifteen times a day, as long as Suruç had no gas, so that there would be no sound against ISIS, and there would be no watch at the Amara Cultural Center that day, for some reason there was not a single police officer, there was no security force. Besides, they're going to issue a press release, and they've met before. So, what happened after July 20th? You'll say, "Did the perpetrators get caught?" Of course not. Right now, there's a covert case going on, the case has been kept confidential, and despite all our objections, our initiatives, the perpetrators are still being protected. That's how it went on. And there's the Ankara train station massacre, October 10th, and we've told him a lot about it from this bench. So June, 20 July, August, September, October... 20 days before November 1st, peacekeepers in Ankara, the woman who waged the peace struggle, young and old -- again, bombs exploded in the heart of Ankara -- 101 people were killed and the case is still going on. In the same way, the mentality that arrests politicians, the ruling party that attacks democratic opposition every day, does not act so quickly and the massacres continue because it does not act; these crimes continue because it does not act, because it does not. And then what happened? November 1st. We went to the November 1st election with a total blow -- there's a painting starting from that process. Do you know that since you're so involved in politics in the November 1st elections, we didn't have a rally as a HDP? We didn't have a rally, we couldn't do it, and we decided not to do mass rallies on the Central Executive Board to protect our voters and the public, after October 10th and July 20th. Because we've continued our work, not fear, not fear, but because in mass events, the ruling party has not prevented attacks on us; on the contrary, because every day, we've tried to do our work through door-to-house, house-to-house, small meetings because it encourages us to do so. Take a look at the archives, see what our November 1st study looks like. Then, of course, there were curfews, and after this election, Mr. Burhan Lamba was very said, I can't help but say, he has a very famous saying -- he has very famous tweets -- he threw a song like this: "Yes, the election is over." People have made up their minds. I said stability or chaos. The nation chose chaos.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0178par0113	That's exactly what I'm saying, it's true.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0114	That's right, Mr. Lamb, you also admitted to causing chaos. You're right. You said, in the name of power, that if you vote for us, there will be stability, and if you don't vote for us, we will create chaos. You have caused chaos and chaos. Congratulations, I really do congratulate you. I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0178par0116	You can't see the subtlety there with your intelligence.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0117	Let's hear it, Mr. Lamb.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0179par0118	Let's not talk mutually, please. Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0119	No, I'm not talking to him, he's interfering with my defense. I'm defending myself right now, so I'm not giving a normal podium speech. Besides, I'd like to hear that the nation really chose chaos. What does that mean? And then came chaos. So you're one of the planners of chaos. Is there another explanation for this? That's enough of my Turkish, my native language is Kurdish. If anyone knows about this, let me be convinced.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0180par0120	Secretary of Twitter...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0121	I didn't know you had a Twitter title. And he said, "Good for you." After that, the attacks on HDP (HDP) and HDP (HDP) supporters gained speed. So, was it just Mr. Lamb who threw away this tweet? No. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, the press never stopped. The Star newspaper -- I don't see any harm in naming it -- either stability or chaos on the front page. There are some newspapers, but I couldn't bring it. The Akit and Star newspaper threw the same thing. And then, Akit wrote, "It's either the presidency or chaos." This time, it's the presidency, because without the presidency, it's chaos. Those threats and propaganda are still going on.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0181par0123	The clerk has changed, so let's report that Fatma Kaplan Liberty has passed. I'm sensitive about this, Mr. President. It's written at the top of the report, and then it's like there's always that clerk, but now Fatma Kaplan has sat down, Ali Haydar Hakdever is up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0124	Okay. Now, despite all the obstacles in this situation, they couldn't stop HDP on November 1st, we crossed the thing on November 1st, and then, Mr. Erdoğan, right now, the President of the AKP, has raised the issue of lifting immunity to the constitutional right, where the debate has already begun. On July 28th, if I did not detect misdeeds -- these talks began, and Erdoğan points to our co-chairs, pointing out: "And they have been opened to this discussion in an expanded way towards the fight against terrorism." He says, and says: "The HDP co-chairs commit constitutional crimes. The removal of their immunity has a positive effect on the fight against terrorism. Despite a permanent resolution and a radical Constitutional amendment proposal that political parties represented in parliament should be fully and strictly limited to the removal of the immunity of legislation and the failure to implement protection measures for everyone, the oratories of the ruling party sometimes express it differently. We proposed a proposal that regulates, removes, removes full immunity of the bench, and that it should be removed for everyone here, provided that protection measures are not implemented during parliament alone -- so that it does not interfere with legislative activity. Of course, this was never discussed, not even discussed. I mean, they still know how loud our voice is in public, and the rest of us know that: "Ironstone said: "Hold it up." Here, the mountain said: "Hold it up. Now we're making the petitions." I didn't even remember the name of a speaker from the ruling party yesterday -- they said: "Ya, there was so much political pressure on us that we were forced to remove the immunity. I mean, I really smiled a lot yesterday. We've put on political pressure, so let's throw us in jail. He's almost going to say that. You wanted to... I mean, really, you know, if there's an issue, if he's not embarrassed, he'll say, "The HDP said, throw us in jail." One didn't say that. He says, "We're filing a petition, the co-chair said this." Shame on you! So they believe the lies they tell themselves after a while, and they expect the citizen to believe them. Is there such an absurdity? Is there such a thing as unreality? Now, that's been discussed. Then, in April 2016, we knew the choice; with the support of the AKP, MHP and other opposition, immunity was lifted. Five months later, you know what happened on November 4th... November 4th. On November 4, 2016, at one and a half o'clock at night -- because I was in Diyarbakır, we went to Demirtaş's house and Nursel Aydöğan's house -- along with our fellow MPs -- I witnessed how the detention was performed. A whole Kayapınar... those who know Kayapınar know. I don't know how many people know about Diyarbakir? I mean, that's the kind of precaution that can only be taken in the event of war. It's awesome. So all the law enforcement there, we barely made it to the wife president's yard, and it was being downloaded at the time, and with the big guns, you can never come, you can't go. What's going on? Give me information. There is no information. Well, that's how it works. So we call it the July 15 coup attempt, so that's the coup, we lived alive, so we know them all now. At the same time, Mr. Idris, Yüksekdağ, well, some of your friends in Ankara, some of them in Mardin, some in Diyarbakır, Sırrı Bey, I think he was in Ankara too, but the problem was there at the same time, at the same time -- one more time from this bench -- simultaneous operations were performed, and they brought some of them to the courthouse in Diyarbakir, and they never allowed us to see them. I'm talking about MPs, not citizens. I'm going to call the courthouse -- hardly think I'm exaggerating -- we've broken into thousands of cops. We're going in because we're MPs and you've taken our friends into custody, they're MPs. We've been inside, and we haven't seen any of the guys who've been arrested since the arrest warrant. We weren't detained, we weren't arrested, we weren't interviewed. On this occasion, we insist that there is no explanation for the Department of Justice's failure to allow us to meet our friends in prison, that this has turned into a more arbitrary method, that we have opened our cases and are still not answered. We have no objection to the departure of our fellow MPs from CHP, but we are happy. I wish other parties would visit. I know people visit from time to time. We can't go, other MPs are leaving. Yeah, we can't visit our co-chairs. I'm a lawyer -- I started in 1991 -- I can't go on as a lawyer, I can't go on as an MP. The Justice Department has to allow it. We petition every week, every week. Yeah, isn't that allowed once? I was in Silivri for three months, the MPs were coming to visit, but the MPs from our party aren't allowed. And this is the application of this period, one of the pieces and the feet of this concept. Now, they don't call it "the law," they don't call it "the democracy," it's something else. Now, in this matter on November 4th, an attorney general has conducted the entire process, and is now the Attorney General of Fethiye. About him, Wolfman Eker, there's nothing wrong with me saying his name, it's in the press. The deputy of the ruling party, Shamil Tayyar, also announced that he was a member of the ruling party. I don't know if it's him or not, I don't know if he's a Fetullahist or not, but I do know that as a lawyer, as a lawyer, I know that hundreds of judges and prosecutors were arrested in the TK files and our case files first, in the investigation, then arrested. But they are not asked, for example, why did you kill civilians in Sur? There is no such question. Why did you attack HDP? There is no question. Fetullahist! I mean, they have their own evidence, they're on trial, but we don't have an investigation like this. Here's Operation 4th November, and then the arrest. Don't be mistaken, the judge has made a decision. Don't say that, I'm very upset, I'm not talking about anything personal. Because there's no such procedure in the judiciary, there's no coordination center among the Attorney Generals. Diyarbakir's chief prosecutor will call İstanbul, and I will take Selahattin Demirtaş, and you will take İdris Baluken. The other cannot call the Ankara chief prosecutor and tell him to take Figen Yüksekdağ. Every prosecutor is responsible for the case in front of him, the investigation. He conducts his investigation; whether he receives it at four, or at five, or at six, or at seven, it is in his discretion. This is a central operation. The day, time, method, details have been determined in Ankara, all details have already been set, and so far, except the instructions given by the press. Later, Çağlar Demirel and Besime Konca were taken into custody in front of their homes after we left the House, and the operation continued. So I told you here -- I won't go into too much detail -- but after the Constitutional Commission's work, on January 31st, Mr. Idris was released, yes, he was released on the same day, Idris Baluken, I was in court. In fact, we made a statement, so I went home. At half past one, when I was taking care of Ms. Hüda, she was taken into custody in Afyon, and the police came to my house, and there was a detention warrant for you. We went and stayed three months. I'm sure you're wondering about my case, I would, especially as a lawyer. Why were you arrested, if you've done nothing now? None of our friends did anything, including me, so I'm not just gonna say myself. But I've done so many criminal cases, I couldn't help but smile when the DA asked me. At Tyre, we went and met with police officials to remove a three - member delegation, civilians, and the patients there. There's police records, police cameras. We've been scanned there for two hours, we've been talking to police officers, deputy chiefs of police, and of course we're MPs, the people are asking us for help, and they say: "We want to get out of here, we want to get out, we want to get out. We're going to die. We're going to talk to the authorities, the governor, the police. In my case file, you tried to break into Sur. I mean, what kind of case file could there be? So there's a warrant to be made, a proper preparation, they're doing something. The other is that I'm a member of M.Y.K., HDP called, two allegations. I mean, I'm sure... you know, I know all about me, and I know all about all the other friends. I'm about to read to you about Faysal Yellow Star, his claims about it. And we don't have the opportunity to express ourselves out there because the press is off, the TV is off, we're taking our word to our constituents. For example, they called me from CNN to NTV. Look, they're looking to get better, they're interested, thanks to them, but they can't do the news, because they're not allowed. We're on the list, the HDPs can't be on TV. I'm passing what I went through as a prisoner because there are still friends in there. But I'll tell you, there's one thing I'll never forget in my life: I was in prison three days minus 10 degrees, you know, in Diyarbakir, in the observation room. They didn't put me in the ward as a congressman. I mean, I respect animal rights advocates, and I'm an animal rights advocate. So if you kept a cat and a dog there, it would freeze, and I stayed there three nights with three blankets, and then I was handcuffed in front of the prosecutor. I asked, I said it wasn't in the law, and I resisted for an hour and a half. So when I say I've resisted, there are 300 cops, 200 guards, there are prosecutors, three principals, they say to me, "Why should I cover my shawl, take pictures, serve it?" I only allowed it because I thought you'd be able to predict the environment with them, with your dishonor, shame, shame, and shame, and shame, and shame, so they said, "Please take a picture," and then I said, "If you ever try to wear it again, I'm not going to court nor going to prison, they're going to drag me away anyway." They're so vicious, they're so unconscionable. Think about what the law enforcement officer who did this to this member of Parliament would do to a citizen of the judiciary. Now, our co-Chair is being handcuffed. When I said it in the Constitutional Commission, they said it would never happen in the Constitutional Amendment. Empathize, and I'm a congressman who knows that I'm being arrested politically, not 100%, like all my friends. How can this be a lack of justice, a lack of law? So in 2009, they put handcuffs on Hatip Dicle, Fırat Anlı, and served it, so the ruling party criticised it, and now he hangs out with the MPs and doesn't say a word. Our Co-Chair of Edirne made a statement that I would never have him cuffed. We already have a decision, so we don't let him wear it. Mine was special, with a few other friends. Hundreds of people are in a blockade, and you're an individual, and you have to accept it so they don't touch you to keep your self-esteem down there, that's another thing, that's a resistance. The Minister of Justice still did not say: "Don't put handcuffs on the MPs, you can't put them on. " It is very clear when they will be handcuffed in the Penal Code. One to escape, one to attack, one to threaten, one to put on handcuffs, the other to refer directly to honor. So you're telling us: why isn't Faysal Sarıyıldız coming to Turkey, why isn't Tuğba Hezer coming? You're still asking about this while 12 MPs are in prison with Enis Berberoğlu. He's not coming because they've gone to work there, and they're now a target of the lynching campaign. I'll explain the lynching targets in a moment.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0182par0133	We've been over an hour, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I'm just passing it on to you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0135	Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0182par0136	Here you go. Have a good one.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0137	You can talk some more, and I'll be rested.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0182par0138	I'm just giving it to you for your information. I think you're gonna have to pick it up a little bit.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0140	I swear, I'm just getting started.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0182par0141	Thanks. You're not going to break the record of Siri Bey?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0143	I think I'm gonna break it. Women break records. Now, what are we living in? Here, every individual who is opposed is put in prison, TV channels, newspapers are closed, you know, communications rights, Internet access were restricted, and then there was the July 15 coup attempt, and then after that coup attempt -- we've seen a lot here, I won't go into its details -- what did we go through as HDP? We've said a lot of things from this platform, but I remind you: 1,500 associations -- except exports -- have been shut down, 123 foundations have been shut down with KHK. 16 TV, 5 news agencies, 24 radio, 62 newspapers, 19 magazines and 29 publishing houses have been shut down; in total 2,614 institutions have been closed. 8.655 people have been taken into custody in operations against HDP. These are the records that we can keep, including co-Chairs, MPs, members of the ICS and PM. 2,644 have been arrested and operations are still under way, and there is an operation in our province every day. Among those arrested were 29 HDP co-Chairs; 57 HDP co-chairs; 11 MPs, 1 MYK, 3 PM, more than 750 district managers; 81 co-chairs; again, 89 municipalities were appointed trustees with KHK. It's very frightening in numbers -- but please imagine the scope -- it means destroying democracy radically. You're throwing trustees at the local authorities, right now the will of the people is not in the locals, the trustees are the trustees. What do the trustees do? They fall so low that they can go and lift up the image of the 13 - year - old, Uður Kaymaz. They removed the Roboski Memorial in Diyarbakir. They removed Cigerxwin's sign, and then gave up, and put it in the park as the July 15th Festival of Democracy. And like this, many attacks on the language there, on identity, are institutionalized by trustees who are hostile to the Kurdish, destroying Kurdish culture. The citizen doesn't see his manager there. Our old people, my mother, were saying: I mean like this, the soldier, who was stationed there from the center, but I run you. He says, "Tuncer Bakırhan is in there, but I decide, in the prison where you voted." The foundation of democracy is management, local executives; it starts in the village, in the community, then in the districts, with the council members. All of them were seized illegally by the KHK, and other NGOs, the public's air pipes, opposition vehicles, and, of course, the attacks against HDP have been announced. These attacks were real after June 7, 2015, so they didn't have a legal cover, but when did they become legal? July 20th. On July 20, 2016, the State of Emergency came as an unrecognizable blessing, and all vital rights were suspended, indeed with the State of Emergency. So I'd like to remember Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça. Really, as a woman, as a human being, as a human being, as a Democrat, as a human being, as a human rights struggle for years, as a woman, as a single individual, as a hunger strike, I find it terrifying to make two people so invisible, step by step to death, to be treated so seriously, to be left to die. Every night before I go to bed, for example, I think about them, they're hungry and they're resisting death, they're resisting death, and the government can say to the State of Emergency Commission, if nothing else, let the State of Emergency consider their situation first. When we visited with hope, we said, "The government takes one step, it doesn't grow."
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0183par0146	They have no conscience, no will; they cannot be judged; they must be asked of the court.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0147	He didn't take the initiative, he put him in jail. Going on a hunger strike anywhere in the world is not a crime, it is not a crime, but Turkey is considered a crime. After the referendum on April 16th, Erdogan had already passed Skopkudar, who had already taken the post...... but he used a very bad metaphor, so let's not take credit for it, because he had not been able to get past Üsküdar. We smiled when we heard that because he couldn't get past Üsküdar. I was in prison then, in Silivri. But then there's the other thing: the one that took the horse has crossed the Üsküdar. There's an unfair pass there, and there's no passing through. Of course, I'd have dismissed the advisors, he'd have dismissed so many people, he'd have to review the KHK and the behemoth advisors, because it was a very bad description, and the one who took the horse crossed the Üsküdar. Then, I mean, really, the country was brought to the brink of destruction and slaughter. Now, it's an important symbol of the decline of the authority of Faysal Yellowstar. In the historical background, the possibility of peace was actually concrete, as the Dolmabahçe agreement was publicized. There was serious hope for the development of democratic demands. The HDP, the representative of this hope... Mr. President, actually, I'll wait for Mr. Secretary to shake hands. There's a lot of loud congratulations.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0184par0152	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0153	Maybe he'll pick on us. Let's wait.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0184par0154	Maybe you miss picking on me.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0185par0155	No, I came to hear it, I missed it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0156	Are you here to listen? Welcome.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0186par0157	I don't think she's going to say anything.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0158	Not today. Congratulations, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0187par0160	Thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0188par0161	We looked, we remember, he became Minister.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0162	I don't think he's gonna pick on me today.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0188par0163	He's had enough, why pick on him?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0164	You're saying that the Satakans have been promoted.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0189par0165	Words are an art, you know.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0166	Absolutely, absolutely. You've been good at this art, I'll give you that. Erdogan attended a meeting on March 15th, and the Economic Awards Ceremony was taken, according to my notes, after Dolmabahçe, there is no Kurdish problem." he said. It was a signal, the phase of the solution process and so on. Then, seven days later, just after the celebrations, he made it very clear that he did not approve of the Dolmabahçe agreement, and that at that time, he broke the peace climate and made HDP a clear target. It was one of the largest zigzags of the party, which has been in power since 2002, and it continues to try to neutralize Parliament in this direction. Now, our Şırnak MP, Mr. Sarıyıldız, was found in Cizre during the curfews declared on December 14, 2015, which continued for seventy-nine days. It's in his defense, and I'm referring to him. During that time, he carried out a duty to publicize and reflect what had happened in Cizre. There have been heavy human rights violations, we have witnessed that period, and there have been 13 times in Şırnak, 13 times in Bitlis, 3 times in Batman, 4 times in Muş According to this table, at least 1 million 809,000 people, known to live in related counties, were affected by the bans before the start of the 2014 census by violating the most basic rights of life and health. It was declared on December 14 in Cizre and lasted seventy-nine days; at least 177 people lost their lives, including one baby, 41 children, and many others, in the basement where they were sheltered. I'd also like to point out that there are indications that the number of people who have died is still unclear, but 259, due to the lack of delivery of funerals, the destruction of funerals, and the lack of effective, transparent investigations. Only the identity of the branch was identified, and 55 were buried in the cemetery of the orphans. There are still 33 people in the orphan cemetery, and families are waiting for a DNA match. Faysal Sarıyıldız, a special place in the public and the agenda of parliament, has been targeted on various occasions. Especially those who have been introduced have been exposed to accusations and slanders -- even though there is no truth -- by the ruling media bodies. I just want to show you a few headlines I've prepared. Precious MPs were caught red-handed and protected from immunity while taking the weapons from Syria to the address of the PKK, with the photo and the title, of course, of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldız. Headline for eight columns. What newspaper is this? New Dawn. This is New Dawn. Let me show everyone that it's the same story again, so I won't open it. The other one: the HDP MP was caught with a rocket launcher. Such a headline is eight columns. Of course, there's a lot more of them that I've found. I forget to mention these newspapers, which have been shown under the armory. What newspaper is this? The daily Sabah has been headlined as: "Is the HDP MP PKK courier?" Look, I'm good at time, or I'd have to read the headlines, it'll take too long.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0190par0171	Thank you for your sensitivity, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0172	Yes, images of shock appeared. HDP MP Kurdistan Workers' Party (HDP) is a courier of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? Now that he has been instructed, the Feisal Yellow Star will be set on target, it is God's command. In the evening paper -- there is no need to comment at all -- these are from the headline: the bomb shipment of the deputy of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). What newspaper is this? Akit. The PKK carried the weapons in the HDP MP's vehicle. They placed a photo of the members of the organization and a small square of the photo of Faysal Bey. What newspaper is this? The evening newspaper: the MP's bomb shipment, such news. Watch out, HDP de Faysal Bey is with him. I mean, this is the Evening News. Now, these headlines, let's just say, they've already been convicted. When Mr. Faysal was in Cizre -- if I told you the dates, the newspaper dates -- it's the same period, it's decided. Faysal Sarıyıldıldıl Cizre and after the headlines were made... Now, if I were a citizen, if I didn't read the other press, if I didn't know the reviews, if my ability to read politics was limited to the fact that I was watching, I'd say, hang on. That's why they're asking for execution. He doesn't know the truth, that the citizen accepts what he's being offered; he believes it, he has to believe it because there's no alternative publishing because there's no way to defend himself because it's not published when the HDP tells it. I've got a file on these headlines, the indictment and the fezleke, and what's that, that's a big crime. Of course it's not a crime. This is Faysal Bey's fault... Do you mind if I leave this here? I don't suppose there's been any violations? I say we do the violations before the Civil Code changes, and we don't get punished yet.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0191par0175	The Civil Code is already changing because of the breaches.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0176	No, no, let's just use this day or two, just in case.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0191par0177	Thanks.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0178	There was such a lynching campaign about Mr. Faysal. And after that, Mr. Faysal has survived the threat of death many times. I was going to say client, for a moment I thought I was in court, but I really was a lawyer in Diyarbakır, in the first term. He had been informed that Mehmet Kaplan had been trapped, and that Faysal Sarıyıldıldız had been involved. Then the ECHR was applied to the ECHR, and the ECHR decided to take precautions in many cases, and there were measures against the immediate removal of civilians living in those basements. Faysal Yellowstar then -- we know, he called us -- went with the public to pick up the funerals, and there's a video on the way -- of course, I can't show it here, so I can't show it, in fact, if my friends are ready, but right now, they're not ready, so we're looking at the video -- they're on TV. İMC TV correspondent Refik Tekin and nine others were injured that day, and Faysal Bey was there, two people, Hamit Pocal and Selman Erdogan were killed and lost. So, on the way to pick up Mehmet Kaplan's body, the group where Faysal Sarıyıldıldım was scanned, two people were killed, Hamit Pocal and Selman Erdoğan; Refik Tekin was injured, treated for months, and is currently injured. It wasn't just political, it was targeted, so it was very clear that he was targeted to be killed. A grudge and hatred were pumping with these newspapers and televisions. And then, Mr. Erdogan, the president of the AKP, came in and said that he carried a gun about Faysal Sarıyıldız: he carried a gun in his car. He directly mentioned his name and carried a gun in his car. So, what source did we get from, that he was carrying a gun in his car because it wasn't in the file, and he learned from the press... that I'm now offering it to the members of law enforcement. But, I can't help but say that Mr. Erdogan is making a call to prosecutors on a secret line; something odd, for example, about our co-Chair Demirtaş, which I'm going to explain later, said the Yasın Börı file, the murderer of my Kurdish brother. He said, "In the same days Ankara's criminal court wanted to merge with that file; could it be such a coincidence?" The court is sending the file for a reunification decision, the same day, same time Erdogan's making a statement, so there's something weird going on here, so you figure it out, so it's really hard to understand. Then it became the focus of hatred, Faysal Sarıyıldız, and really, the issue of the public account of the events that took place here for seventy-nine days in Cizre made him a bigger target. Now, in this matter of Cizre, those who have listened to us on this stand know that there have been crimes against humanity in Cizre, and there have been major violations of the contract of the United Nations, which has entered the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. At that time, I, Idris Baluken and Osman Baydemir -- even by going to the Ministry of Interior -- we had several meetings to protect the rights of life in the basement, even in the parliament, but we couldn't save those civilians from being killed. I'm one of the witnesses to that massacre. I have a meeting on my phone with Mehmet Yavuzel, and I still have his messages, and I can't delete them. Mehmet Yavuzel reached out to us when he was in the basement -- he had only one phone. We agreed with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health to save them in the morning. Health, Internal Affairs and we set up a three-way table there. Every time they tried to get out, there was a scan, and the soldier wouldn't let go. It's a mystery. They're saying they're members of the organization right now. They weren't members of the organization. And even if they're members of the organization, their lives have to be saved. The state can't kill a member of the organization, which it will if it doesn't. He has to take it alive when he can take it alive. It's in our law. Then let the government go and scan and kill everyone they consider a member of the organization. It's called murder in law. They were also civilians, and while Mehmet Yavuzel and I were on the phone, Mr. Numan Efendi was on the other end of the phone, and I had him listen to it. I have a very good memory, and I can never forget that voice, in my last interview -- so there was a very long meeting -- that there was no water -- and they were scanning us, and the phone was cut off. And the next time I called, I couldn't find it, and ten days later, 15 days later, they were all buried in that basement. I witnessed the moment of death. On the other end of the phone, I witnessed an intervention in the basement in Cizre, and these audio recordings are now in front of the European Court of Human Rights, because on the other side, the Ministry of Health, Health and Internal Affairs said that there was a rescue operation there, and they were all killed there, and not a single person came out of that basement alive. I know of a journalist, a 17-year-old boy, Mehmet Yavuzel, a member of the party's council and Faysal Sarıyıldıldı told them, because the state was committing crimes against humanity. Exposed crimes against humanity has made him a target.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0192par0183	Don't mention the murder of innocent people... so I'll go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0184	Yes, Congressman, did you say something?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0192par0185	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0186	I'm not doing it because you want me to.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0192par0187	Tell me about the killing of innocent people, about the cops, about the soldiers.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0188	You get rid of the right to defend yourself, that's all you've got. You'll vote, but you won't bother to listen. History sees what you do.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0193par0189	Tell me about Najmuddin Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0190	Sir? What happened in Cizre? I want to continue with Cizre. Those headlines just now, I've got Faysal Sarıyıldıl's proceedings in front of me, and they've got indictments. It's, you know, the stories and really the Faysal Yellow Star... which, of course, is not enough, but I'll tell you in particular what's related to the weapon. Yeah, that's the argument, that's the headline -- I've talked to his lawyer today -- he hasn't turned into a case yet, until now. So that's how many headlines were made, the others turned into indictments, which didn't turn out to be. Even the prosecutor says there are no weapons in the area of Faysal Sarıyıldız. So Faysal Yellow Star and the weapon were never found together. There is no such photograph, there is no such frame, Faysal Yellowstar has no contact with the weapon; it can't be. Also, it's not immunity based on criminal convictions; it's known to lawyers, it's something else, it's criminal conviction, it could be a weapon, it could be attempted murder, it could be a lot of things. If that were the case, let him protect immunity, I assure you, he could have been killed there. But they pushed so hard here, and in the statement, the captured citizen -- I'll tell you the name, it's being used by Mehmet Ali -- says that he has a license plate -- I don't know if Faysal Yellowstar has anything to do with the gun. We've never spoken, I don't know. There's a lot of expressions, so I'd like to read them all, but people really want to rest when they're talking. It's a statement that shows how baseless and populistic the headlines are, just to blame. And here's an example: where is it seen? Cizre 3. The original Criminal Court. There are a total of 23 investigations against Mr. Faysal, and I'm going to read to you a few of Faysal Bey's speeches and a few of his tweets so that he can give you an opinion on the investigations. On 16/12/2015 -- this is just a case of "tweet" and a few cases that he's just thrown out -- he says that he's already opened because of his "tweet" cases --..... in Cizre is threatening to evacuate the people from their homes, and if you don't, we'll destroy your home...... another 17/12/2015 year-old....................................................................................................................................................................................................... The state massacred a father, Doğan Aslan, 22, who had three children in Cizre this evening. Aslan's funeral is still in the neighborhood. They're all small and tweeted. The soldiers who entered the house in Silopi are at 01 a.m. on a street in Yenişehir Maellesi, where there are no moats. As of 00, the house has been occupied. The soldiers who settled on the upper level of the two-story house have broken down the courtyard wall of the house. The soldiers who sent their household downstairs were forced to settle upstairs. Soldiers who use the kitchen of the house and the other rooms in unfettered fashion do not allow their households to leave the house. You will not get away with this persecution. In 18/12/2015, the AKP violence continues to rise. Only 15 cannons were fired at Cudi Neighborhood Mountaindibi Street. You'll have fear on the children's faces. This is a summary of the AKP atrocities in Kurdistan. In the 19/12/2015 article, the AKP special public office has been constantly fabricating lies to justify the massacre in the Kurdistan. There are over 20 wounded; all the dead and wounded are the inhabitants of Cizre. The fascist massacre alliance is to present something other than concrete. The Zorbalik system has just killed Selahattin Bozkurt, 70 years old. The body of Bozkurt, who is still on the threshold of his door, cannot be removed. On December 20, 2015, he was shot with obuse cannons that had been shot at the linelessly. Can't get access to houses that start burning down. They have now killed Zeynep Yilmaz, 40, with anti-aircraft weapons. They shot Joseph Soslu, now 2 years old, at the scene of the massacre of Zeynep Yilmaz. She can't be taken to the hospital. It's going on, so I hope I'm not boring her. In 21/12/2015, there is a death sentence of hundreds of heavy ammunitions, children, women, young and old civilians, which the state has driven to the province for several days. There is a 21/12/2015: hundreds of people who were forced out of the neighborhoods were placed in a closed gym, hundreds of them in custody, squared by the government display of atrocities. I think there is a photograph. I don't have a picture. Guys, this is one of the most serious cases we've ever had. That's right. No one can fabricate a lie like that. Name, location, anti-aircraft, which means 70-year-old, he lives in two-year-olds, he's living in Cizre, he's getting information all the time, and he's on one channel because the press can't get in. Now, is it guilty who did this, or is it guilty who announced it? Faysal says crimes committed. ▪ You killed a child. You killed a woman. You killed civilians. People were burned in the basement. It's called, it's all written here. Now, do we understand why Faysal is the target? Because Faysal is a witness to these crimes. There was a crime against humanity, and Faysal didn't step out of Cizre for seventy-nine days, and the lawsuits against him were at work, and you threw it out in public, as you did. But remember, if the International Criminal Court is not today, if it is not tomorrow, if it is not ten years or ten years tomorrow, there will surely be defendants, and there will be convictions. The United Nations has many explanations for coming to Cizre. I want to go to Cizre. I want to find out how people were burned in these basements. He says, "I want to go to Silopi." Muiznieks has made several statements from the European Commission: we can't go to the relevant places. Many different institutions have explained, but the United Nations is still not allowed, and they are now replacing those basements with TOKI dwellings. Two months ago, human bones were found there. Now, since Faysal explained this, the defendant is being demoted, but those who committed this crime remain in power. History doesn't forgive such injustice. We'll face this injustice sooner or later. You must be wondering about other cases. It's a case in the case of Nevroz, Cizre 2. At the High Criminal Court, Mr. Faysal joined the Nevroz. Another one, after he gets out of prison, he doesn't meet with the public, and he doesn't talk here. This is a public meeting case. In the public meeting, it's interesting, I wrote down that they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're there, they're chanting slogans, but they're responsible for that slogan. Just as the Regent will silence thousands of people! I mean, he's different... He's not guilty of anything, he's under the discretion of the prosecutors. Now, these are all of Faysal Bey's indictments and proceedings, but, of course, he's not being dismissed from the cases, he's found another formula, he's wanted to be removed from immunity. Now, we've had a lot of discussion about the issue of non-responsibility in the Commission, but I want to say again, again, of course, that the health report was mentioned in the Faysal Yellowstar defense, and I pass it because the health report is not considered scandalous in some way, it's strange. Right now, one medical report is missing at the Stuttgart consulate. What's it like? Then how can we discuss this? Mr. Faysal is really sick, he's being treated and he can't come. And let's leave that too. I mean, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder told us about our deputy, how many MPs have been taken down and not been in this situation? I mean, we all know this isn't a legal matter. Now, there's been a lot going on here that Parliamentary President has reviewed his medical report, his will, his statement, it's already unreliable, he's being inspected, and the other medical report he sent is not brought in. Now, but despite all of this, he can come to us in the General Assembly in no time, because the order will be taken down from a great place, and the role of Faysal Yellowstar will be reduced, and preparations have been made since these headlines. Now, there's no predisposition to both procedure and violation of the Constitution, in a completely unconstitutional and illegal way, we're dealing with a desire to be reduced to political opinions, only political leaders. You know, in those movies, there's a role called the role of the poison detective, the state of the Republic of Turkey, Faysal Sarıyıldız, in which city, in which country, in which country, in which event, what he said, what he did, he went after it. Is that even possible? Have we ever seen anything like this? Our party, our headquarters, it's written, it's in charge. I'll be right back with the mergers. Which one of us joined 47? In addition to all of us, let's discuss it, then, let's discuss it with honesty. There's not much in the role of detective here because Faysal Sarıyıldız is working on behalf of our party in Europe, continuing his testimony of Cizre to human rights institutions, United Nations mechanisms, NGOs, public gatherings there. That's what Faisal Yellowstar does. Interrogation hearings. It's a mystery, of course. Now, the General Assembly meetings -- we all know that as MP -- are either open with observation or roll call. We're all accepted when we open with observation. For example, I wasn't at the opening yesterday, and for myself, there was no roll call, and I was counted, so we didn't need to petition or sign. It's something we all do. It's heavy in observation. But Faysal Yellowstar also says, so I'd like to add your attention to this: even if it's opened in private, Faysal Yellowstar is ignored because he's petitioning for an alibi. How should we interpret this now? I really couldn't get out of it. I mean, we're here today, under observation, we didn't file an alibi, naturally. Let's say I say to my advisor while I'm gone: "Leave our petitions, I'm in this province, I'm here." Now, if my petition had come, I would have been ignored that day. I mean, mercy! What kind of logic is that? I mean, is that alien logic? I couldn't figure it out, so I guess I'm just a little tired. Now, I'm explaining to you exactly, according to the current reports of Faysal Yellowstar, the crime is in quotes: it is ignored because it petitions an alibi for the hearings under observation, so its proxy will be dismissed. Could it be such a heavy sanction? Is it a crime to file an alibi? He was honest, he was honest, he said: "I will not be in this session." He sent out a plea, and you did not enter the roll call against him. Yeah, but there's no roll call. Come on, if it's a roll call, the motion for an alibi is already in effect. Since there is no roll call, it is ignored because it was opened in contrast with observation, and so is Tugba Hezer. Now, other than that, it says: "Maddi, the revelation of the truth." What about the Parliament, which one of us is watching? Have any of you ever felt that because we're not in the polls, we're not in the Parliamentary Court of Presidents, does it determine what province we're in? What event did we attend, what television program did we go to, what program did we go to abroad? It's never done, it can't be done. The congressman's job isn't just Parliament. But Faysal is doing it about the Yellow Star. It's strange, I mean, you were here today. Where were the other MPs? In order for equality to happen, do the same thing about 550 people, who've been opened under observation, how many people have filed an alibi, how many people are in what province, all of them. Now, it's a situation where the Parliament's practice and the law of principle have already been destroyed, there's no such thing. Now, I've cited Babacan here, Mr. Davutoglu has told Sırrı Süzyya, many other MPs can be cited, we've been able to identify two people, which is the issue of absence. I don't go into technical details because it's political, so it doesn't go down because of the absence. Even if the vote is cast at the moment, it's not because of the absence, it's entirely politically correct. If Babacan and Davutoglu are coming into our mouths, you tell us the samples, so I've only thought of two. I'd like to remind you over and over again, to be ignored in the hearing of which congressman, which friend, for filing an alibi? I'd like to ask these questions now that the Deputy Speaker of Congress is here. Now, at the prep commission, we asked: how many of the 47 mergers have been opened with observation? We didn't get an answer, no official answer. We asked in the Karma Commission: how many of the 47 mergers have been opened with observation, how many of them have not been answered again? Now in the General Assembly, we ask: How many of these 47 combinations have been opened with observation, with a roll call, or since the Presidential Court has not been formed, has Parliament not been able to work? We're asking at the General Assembly, on the Presidential Court. If you don't tell us this today, if we don't get an answer -- there will still be a vote in about four hours -- then you have to tell the AYM, then you have to tell the ECHM. At least tell me now so the lawmakers can at least make an evaluation while they vote, so we can make a fair decision. There are lawmakers here who will make that assessment except for us. I'm going to ignore him again, those who don't have to go on, those who don't come, the ministers, the vice presidents; if we wanted to, we could easily choose Faysal Sarıyıldıldır as a member of MYK, make him Vice President General and not have to continue. We don't have that kind of concern, we didn't even think about it, because he's got the assignment, he's working. But if we knew that this was going to happen, I mean, if we were malicious, we could do it with no fingernails on it, it's actually happening. We didn't even stoop to it, and we're not going to do it anymore. Now, my friends told me about the 138th article, and I'm not going in there. But this process is not in line with either the Constitution or the Civil Code provisions, because Mr. Pestilence has an explanation in this Commission -- I don't know if it's here, but usually it's impossible to set a standard. He said, "Mr. Pestilence will be very well assessed; if there is no problem with semi-judgmental authority, it will be found politically, depending on the nature of the concrete. So that he may not fall down, so that he may fall down. Let him who understands and understands, speak to those who do not understand. He's a very good lawyer, indeed, and he's got some very good articles, and I've read a lot, and I'm happy to read them. It's a little complicated here, but frankly, it's not standardized. So it's either about the system, it's about politics, or it's about the law. But it also says -- I like to read his writings -- one, a natural absence; two, the absence of antisystems. Mr. Speaker, our deputies need to know better. He lives in the sea, he lives in Istanbul, he has no problem with the system, he has no problem with the basic values of the Constitution's Article 3 (i.e. he is a failure of the system), and parliamentary tolerance is appreciated in the absence of the system. Really, if it has to be dropped in an exceptional way, it's reduced, but the antisystem absence is more about civic law than absence, I think. If you're applying the fundamental paradigms of the non-responsibility system to non-approved vehicles outside the methods of changing democratic order, so if you can't continue, it's the absence of antisystems. In fact, it's a constitutional issue, and it's not about the decline of the legislature, it's about the decline of citizenship. It's not written down, but it's basically the basis of the application, because we've also started the process of de-employment of our two MPs. Immediately after this investigation was launched, Erdogan made a statement and immediately began the process. They will be discharged from the state of Turkey. Following a warning issued on January 6, 2017, the State of Emergency issued on Friday (January 6, 2017) in the Official Gazette 29940 was ordered by the court to dismiss them on the grounds that they did not come to Turkey, even though they were being invited by the court under investigation into the rights of DGK. Under this provision, the list of 130 people published in the June 5, 2017, announced that those who did not come to Turkey would be removed from citizenship. Guess who's in these? There's Tuğba Hezer and Faysal Yellow Star. So, here's the step before the delegation of acting as a citizen. It's not enough to deputize, it's being declared a process of de-employment. This is just the House Ceremony -- in the nail -- these meetings, the defense that we're doing, it's actually just an intermediary step. Therefore, which one of you in Parliament with the right, objective values, can actually say that there is an equal practice. I sincerely wonder, but I also know that no one will say it in the political sense. So the bottom line is, if the MP is at peace with the system, if he's not against power, if he's not from HDP, especially if he's not from Parliament. What if he never comes? The legislature will not be reduced, but if the HDP is a member, no rule of law will apply, no rule of law will apply, any rule of law will come to your attention. That's where we're dealing with a double standard. In law, double standard and discrimination are the most dangerous practices. Making different decisions between those in the same situation really kills the sense of justice. So the different execution of a sentence in Yozgat (Yozgat) and the different execution in Hakkari (Hakkari) will reset the citizens' trust in justice. A decision among the four party MPs, with the discrimination of one party to the MPs and the interpretation of the law against them, is actually a declaration that the constitution no longer has democratic standards in that country. Here, the Faysal Yellow Star is one of them. Especially if there's discrimination in Parliament, if there's discrimination among us MPs, there's discrimination among citizens. Right now, our deputies in Diyarbakır are standing guard in a park, doing a democratic job, reacting to arrests, illegals, and the police are all around them. We were here yesterday, and I had this scene in Diyarbakir the other night, so I'll never tell you about the private, but since it occurred to me, my wife and I hit a police checkpoint on the return of a hospital. My wife was driving, not my car. Of course we stopped. We turned on the light. My wife said, "Good evening." She said, "Good evening, take a right." My wife said I'm a lawyer. You know, you don't normally call a lawyer's vehicle, it's legal. He said, "Pull! Sir, you can't search the lawyer's vehicle, what's the matter? I'm watching too, you know. I don't feel the need to say it because there's something against it. This time, if you don't have a job, try. Next thing I know, something weird happened, and I'm like, "We're stuck with a doctor friend." He says, "There's a member of the nation." He said, "Get over there!" Oh, my God. Mr. Officer, what do you say? Look, there's a card in the car, and I'm showing you my ID, what kind of disrespect is that? I mean, it's unacceptable for you to treat a citizen like that, let alone a deputy. I said, "Be equal to everyone." I've been here all morning......... and he spoke with such disrespect that if I were to fall to his level, I would come down and argue with him. I said, "Good evening." I left. Now, how would you feel if any of you encountered this practice in your own knowledge? Why are we being treated like this? That's not the way I'm treated in Adana, my province is not being treated in this way, it's not the way the standards are being treated in Istanbul, it's the way they're treated in Ankara, it's the way the police behave in Diyarbakır, it's the way they'll be treated in Mardin, it's the police there, it's the way they'll probably be punished. Really, it's not funny to feel that it hurts because you feel discriminated against. In Adana, when the police salute you, when they respect you, they treat you very badly. Why, where does he get his power? He gets it from politics. He says: "Yahu, the co-chair of these people is in prison." The police take them into custody every day. Every day, the President -- the general president -- calls them terrorists. The AKP makes statements accusing HDP (HDP) where they sit every time they sit down. The police say, "Why should I respect the situation?" Now, isn't that a political approach? And that's what's going on right now. We came from the same place, but unfortunately we don't deal with the same applications. Now, with this roll call, decommissionion has not come up except with exceptions. What I do know, as far as I'm concerned, is that there are two numbers, because of the absence. Other times, there was no such practice when Cemil Cicek was President; on the contrary, he was left at the end of the term, although there were penalties, but there was a clear reflection of differential politics, where political competition is intended to throw a party out of politics by creating the power of law, not by creating the power of law, not by creating the power of law. It's revenge, it's a sense of revenge, and revenge is the most dangerous concept in the law, the right is forbidden, our criminal law gives punishment to the state. If a person kills your father, it's not right that you kill him, it's only self-defense, certain circumstances, but here, the power clearly approaches its political opponent with a sense of revenge for his return to war, the success of the election on June 7th and peace. There's a rematching feeling here. Here Turkey's people's true faith in democracy is weakening. We are responsible to our people, and it is the people who gave us this task, but the people can take it. I'm gonna say this at the end of my speech. All words, except that the people take away our duty, are indiscriminate, in no way taken into account. Now, I'm going to move on to another section. The ruling party often holds a language that criticises the single party period and understrates its speech. I just want to remind you of that once in a while. But in this period, before that, the Justice and Development Party had taken nationalism at their feet. And he did a really good thing. Nationalism -- in a negative sense -- goes to fascism and racism, as in Hitler Germany. But what's he doing now? He has an approach that punishes those who call him Kurd, exacerbates all nationalism, brings it to the sky. And I'm really speaking to Kurdish lawmakers here in particular: does this hostility to the Kurds really not touch your glory? I'd like to ask you if you won't take a position on the legal delegation of the Şırnak deputy. Here you see what it says on the back of the House Council: "The government belongs to the nation unconditionally." We're going to talk about this broadly in this Civil Code, and from now on, we have to say that sovereignty is unconditional power, it's majority, it's not nation. Because people can't be divided. The people who voted for you, the people who voted for us, the people who voted for us; the Diyarbakırns and the people who were part of the nation; the Istanbulites, Antalyans and Adanans and Mersinis. Şırnak is part of this nation. If you take away the voters of the Şırnak MP, his people, his people there, you, by deputizing him, you have divided the nation. The sovereignty no longer belongs to your people, unconditionally. That's how important this is. Dear MPs, now, this -- I said at the beginning of my speech -- is part of the operations against HDP. In other words, the lowering of the MPs of Faysal Sarıyıldız and Tuğba Hezer. The agenda is only one leg of the concept against HDP. Well, you know, we often say -- if I find that note, I'll read it -- the immunity for all parties has been lifted, and they say, "Why do you object?" Everyone's is up. In fact, it's true, but I remember very well that we said on May 20th that you deliver the lamb to the wolf while the law is like this. It's only directed at us, we know it. We said it and it happened. How did it happen? As soon as the debate began, the prosecutors of all the provinces began to make a statement about HDP MPs. There's an increase there, the rate of increase in the proceedings against HDP after May: not 100 percent, but more. Suddenly, as a result of the instructions given to prosecutors, the proceedings were sent to parliament at the last minute, even on May 20th. I'm just going to give you a few numbers, showing that the judiciary is not independent and neutral, that the judiciary has taken orders from political power and is working according to it. Between 2007 and 24 December 2015, during the eight-year period, our party had only 180 statements about MPs from the same traditional parties who had previously done politics and had been sent to parliament. From December 2015 to May 2016, in the five months period 382 were sent to parliament. 152 of these proceedings were rushed to Parliament after the government presented the Constitutional Amendment and during the last month of May 20th, the prosecutors prepared them in a hurry. It's just that even this painting that I'm showing shows clearly how the judiciary is being mediated. I'd like to get your attention. Although there's no one left in the House, but I'll continue to make my case. It's enough to tell our friends, the ones who stay here. Of course, I understand them, and it's hard to talk this long, and it's hard to listen, and it has a certain amount of time. If it was a fun subject, I'd put in jokes, different things, but it's a really historical period, and I'm not putting in different anecdotes on purpose because it's a matter of eliminating the will of the people, or I might actually be able to make a defense that won't be boring. I mean, it could have been something like that. I beg your pardon on this matter.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0194par0223	Mr. Danış Beştaş, I believe you've broken the record of Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0224	I'm not trying to break anyone's record.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0194par0225	You must have broken it, that's how I seem to remember it. You've been making a defense for over two hours, but, of course, you've been referring to a lot of very general, very conjunctural problems far beyond the defense. Please, just so we can wrap this up...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0226	No, I assure you, many of the issues I've said and thought about saying are within direct defense. Our party has an immunity file on the MP, and it's not independent of political attacks. That's why it won't be understood if I just discuss the roll-call schedule without considering it as a whole. We're trying to make a note of history. Now, at the time of the constitutional amendment's debate in parliament and public opinion, the new 468 hearings came to parliament. That's not a normal number. 79 per cent of these proceedings only came to us, the HDP, 79-80 per cent. Three parties, 20 percent for three parties, 80 percent for us. Only 8 new trials have been held on AKP MPs since January 2, 2016. Do you think that's normal? It's not. No one's gonna take it normal. Let me put it to you this way: from every 40 AKP MPs, there's only a debate about one of them, prepared for 6.3 proceedings for each HDP MP. In total, 798 is 510 (33%) of the fezleken, 63% of the HDP, 145 of the People's Republican Party (CHP) and 46 of the AKP (AKP) and 20 of them are on the MP of the MP of the MP of the MPHP. There's a debate about 55 percent of our 59 MPs, 93 percent of them. This makes it clear how the increase in dialogue with prosecutors has been effective. For example, I have a thesis dated May 20th. The prosecutor was in such a hurry, but he didn't make it, it's a shame! I know two about Demirtaş in Adana -- he grew up on the last day, some didn't come to the ministry, he stayed directly in the House, and then we were left in a serious hurry. Now, there's another thing, and that's what this political operation is really about in law? Is this going to go unpunished and what does this political operation mean? Now, there's a clause, number 77 of the Turkish Penal Code. I'd like to bring this to the attention of Parliament in particular, and we're thinking of starting a study this semester with our central legal commission and our party group and fellow lawyers. What's the 77th article saying? He says, "He regulates crimes against humanity; the 1/d joke has stated that it is a crime against humanity and related punishments for depriving a person of freedom by political, philosophical, racial, or religious means, by systematically operating against a part of the community in accordance with a plan. The last joke was that the statute of limitations on these crimes would not work. Now, when prosecutors and judges make arrest decisions, they can make those decisions by mistake or negligence, and they can deliberately make illegal decisions. In this case, the members of the judiciary will either be punished for negligence or abuse of office. According to Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code and Article 109 of the Turkish Penal Code, the crime of depriving a person of his freedom may be on the agenda. I'm talking about prosecutors or judges -- I'm talking about, of course, this connection here -- instructions from political power and operations within a certain system. With political, philosophical, racial, or religious leaders, we need to discuss the decision to systematically and plannedly deprive individuals of freedom by the 77th Article of the Turkish Penal Code as a crime against humanity. I suggest you look at the reason for the 77th Amendment. It's based here on the Nürnberg Status of Nürnberg, and it's in the sources. For the first time, crime against humanity, political operations have taken place at the Nürnberg Status. Later, in Rome's Status, it was described as a crime against humanity, or a serious limitation of physical freedom in other forms as a result of violation of the basic rules of international law. In the meantime, it does not matter whether the perpetrator is authorized to arrest the perpetrator or not. So other than the judges who made the arrest warrants, the perpetrators could be the ones who made the arrest warrants. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this concerns you directly. According to Article 77 of the Turkish Penal Code in political operations, operations with systematic, planned political opinions are crimes against humanity, and it does not require prosecutors and judges, and those who support it may be perpetrators of the same crime. So with your votes today, you may actually be signing crimes against humanity, which I would like to remind you of. I really don't want to go back a thousand years from now and not be reminded of the Magna Carta in 1215.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0195par0235	The clerk has taken his place.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0236	Mr. Special, I'd like to draw your attention to how the concept of freedom is defined. Mr. Special, go ahead and say it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0195par0238	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0239	I was just reading Magna Carta to you. In 1215, he made a very good determination -- compared to today, we see thousands of years ago, the difference -- he says: "No free man will be arrested, not imprisoned, not deprived of property, nor will he be declared unlawful, nor will he be harmed in any way, by the laws of the country, according to his own kind. 2017, today MPs are in prison without convictions, the mayors are in prison without convictions. I guess I don't have to tell you how far back we've gone from Magna Carta to today after this comparison. The HDP Group is also very much alive. You can't see Ayþe Acar, but like this, she's about to go to sleep.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0196par0241	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please don't pick on me, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0242	Don't make fun of me, right? I pick on you when no one messes with me.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0197par0243	There's bullying, and then I'll answer.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0244	Miss Flitz, she seems very spry, but I think we can go on like this, folks.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0198par0245	We can continue until morning.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0246	Okay. Now, I'm going to bring you up to date, and then I want to take you to 1994, March 2, 1994, but before that, we have a very important agenda for current politics, but if I find that note, by the way. Now, valuable lawmakers, really, when you say untouchables, we should not be able to assess them independently of political developments recently because operations against HDP are continuing at all speeds, and they are not losing speed at any rate. Now, the last time I said anything about that was on this bench before, but before I got to that, I... My grades are a little high, so I guess I got mixed up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0199par0249	I don't think so, it's probably all there, you've expressed all your notes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0250	No, no, no, no, no, we're almost there. I wonder if there's a file in there.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0199par0252	Mr. Danış Beştaş, as a lawyer, you are one of those who know best that a right must be protected with good intentions, that no right should be abused, that it should be used reasonably.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0253	Ben, I assure you, I'm not... Of course, of course... No, I assure you, I will not abuse it, you can be sure of that.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0256	But the ritual is the person's work.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0257	Isn't there a file in there?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0258	Please, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0259	Now, dear President... Yeah, that's impossible, it was in my notes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0261	I think not everyone here can find their notes. I think they're praying.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0262	My notes will be found by friends. Now, I showed you the press stuff, but then there's these, so don't jump. There's not only that news about Faysal Yellowstar, but we've actually prepared the press releases, and so, really, we're not...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0264	I think he's got it together now, so it looks like, let's not push it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0265	No, no, he hasn't packed yet.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0266	Why don't you go back to your place, take a look at your notes? We're waiting anyway.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0267	Really?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0268	What do we do?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0171par0269	Can we have a look?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0201par0270	We've waited a long time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0200par0271	But no one's waited this long. Right now, no one's waited this long.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0202par0272	Your right to abuse, your right.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0201par0273	You know, we still don't have a trial date. The day of the trial is still unclear. We've waited too long, we're still waiting.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0203par0274	Tell me about 1994.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0275	Tell him what?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0203par0276	Tell me about 1994.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0277	I'll tell you about 1994.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0205par0278	Anyway... you've come from God, from 1215, to 1994.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0279	I've come from 1215. Don't be afraid. There's nothing wrong with that. Now, the esteemed MPs, in 1994, really, just like tonight, sat down and listened to the defences. I've got a lot of data from that period, all the records, all the records, but I'd really like to bring a few opposition martyrs to your attention. What opposition shall I begin with? I'll start with Mümtaz Soysal. The countervote, this short one, says that the institution for immunity of life has two main goals. First, preventing lawmakers from being detained on grounds of legislative duties as soon as possible, and second, to ensure that these tasks can be carried out in the community against widely adopted views and even values. Because opinions and values can change over time, and with different opinions, representing values within Parliament is the duty of lawmakers. I object, especially because the decision to remove immunity is contrary to this second purpose. The late Erdal Inönü has an opposition martyr here, says I voted against the motion to remove the immunity of four MPs at a meeting on Thursday (December 23rd) because I believe it is wrong to remove these immunitys from their principles and practical angles. In principle, the principle I've always defended is that freedom of thought is a fundamental quality of democracy and more generally human life. In this regard, I have always suggested that a crime of thought should not be committed in democracies, that there should be no fear of being spoken of harmful ideas, that it cannot be understood which ideas are right and beneficial without that being done, that the healthy ideas cannot be sincerely embraced by society, and that there is an opportunity. I do not agree in any way with the opinion of the lawmakers who have been proposed to remove the immunity by writing and verbally. These ideas are wrong, they're harmful, they're full of interpretations that don't apply to the truth, but if we force the lawmakers to say these wrong ideas, we can't force our citizens to accept the error of these ideas. In practice, how does it contribute to the case of protecting the integrity of the country, which we all have in common? Do they have more benefits or do they have more damage? When I think of all the possible effects, both short-term and long-term, I see that the damage will be greater than the benefit. I respectfully submit to your knowledge. This was another source of opposition. Amasya, member of the first preparedness commission; I want to share a paragraph: We need to be careful about whether it is right to try to resolve these individual behaviors, which can leave all the people in the region without representation. There is no position for us to be able to select representatives in a new election or in between, or to get people to choose the structure and the thinking that we want. The lack of the will they showed in the election, the lack of faith in which we show certain importance and respect within democracy, may bring the issue to a new level. I'm trying to point out that I can't agree with the majority decision to remove immunity at this stage, so I'm writing my opposition appeal. Cemal Şahin, Corum MP, Chairman of the Justice Commission at that time... These are very important, Mr. President, I assure you, the date is 1994...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0206par0289	By multiplying them, we can distribute them to all lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0290	I brought you the opposition from 1994. So 23 years later, we're gathered on a agenda like this, and we need that period to be light, we need to read it backwards. Even at the time, I was so...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0206par0291	I guess it'd be better if they were read when they were removing immunity.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0292	Well, that's when it couldn't be read, unfortunately, now it's read.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0206par0293	Please, let's wrap this up, it's a new day.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0294	Are we in for a new day?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0206par0295	We're in, we're in, we're in. Two hours, 19 minutes, 35 seconds now.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0207par0296	Let's finish up at halftime.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0297	Let's see, we'll finish it. These opposition martyrs are telling us something. We know very well that the Assembly did not really agree at the time, that they had very different views, and that even in 1994, the removal of parliamentary immunity had so much to mark developments in Turkey, political events. What happened in 1994? The MPs were put in prison. Layla Zana, Hatip Dicle, Orhan Doğan, Selim Sadak were in prison for ten years; not simply, ten years - a very important part of life. After that, the European Court of Human Rights violated this decision and ruled that they were not being judged fairly. Is the Kurdish issue solved? No. Did democratic politics get stronger? No. Has democracy gone one step further? No. Is the violence over? No. Have the Kurds surrendered? No. On this occasion, have Kurds now been prevented from demanding rights and freedoms? No. Is the Kurdish issue still a solution? Yeah. Well, the fact that they've been arrested for ten years in 1994 and that their immunity has not solved anything in the same way, and in a much more critical way, makes it more systematic that we're meeting today is proof that we're going back and forth in Turkey's history, we can't move forward, we're going backwards. The reports I just read actually show that. That's why, on March 2, 1994, the DEP earthquake went into the Kurds' memory as a coup d'état, which is no different from the coup d'état of September 12th, February 28th. Today, when coup mechanics and their insufferable speech against Kurds continued, only those who applied it differed; the DYP was now in power. Who's getting their immunity removed? DeP lawmakers at the time were from the opposition party, they were Kurds, and now HDP hosts all the differences as a Turkey party, not Kurdish, Turkish, identity, belief, but also because it puts the solution to the Kurdish issue ahead of its democratic policy, it faces these attacks because it puts the Kurds' demand for equal and free citizenship into its own programme. There can't be another explanation for this. Now, what did we say in 1993? There's a concept of cylindrical agaar. We were saying, it's a common word in public, and it was the most turbulent years of political life at the time, really. If we remember, the sudden death of Turgut Özal, when Prime Minister Demirel was appointed President of the House, and the withdrawal of SHP leader Erdal Inönou from active politics led to a crack, and let's not forget that at that time... On September 4, 1993, DeP Mardin MP Mehmet Sincar was killed in Batman, and Nizamettin Tugluc was wounded, and unfortunately, just as this period was, I want to remind you of a comparison -- the attacks against the DEP (DeP) were similar to the attacks against HDP today. Now, the identity, political identity, the identity of those applying the pressures to the DEP, the HADEP, the DTP, the HDP, has changed, unfortunately, but the applications have not changed. So if we remember, HadEP President Murat Bozlak and the party's headquarters were arrested three times, served three and a half years in prison, hadEP was shut down, then DEHAP was established, DTP was established, and we arrived today. Later, Kurdish politicians were tried to liquidate again with TK operations. You may even remember, Mr. Ahmet Türk and Aysel Tuğluk have been demoted at the time, and unfortunately, we continue to go back and forth in Turkey's history. So, how'd it go with the ACK ops? We've explained a lot here that the operations against democratic politics that started in 2009 were actually carried out again in a systematic way, and the most important part of that practice is that judges and prosecutors who made the decision in TK operations were arrested for Fetullahism, for the membership of a terrorist organization, but those who are being tried for the KCK operations continue to be punished, so those who are judging themselves are being tried for the membership of a terrorist organization, but those who are not acquitted, they are not acquitted. What's the difference? If you're accused of a sledgehammer case, you're acquitted, or if you're accused of the Ergenekon case, you're acquitted again. In short, if you are not from HDP, if you are not from Kurdish, you can be acquitted from the trials of the Fetullahist judges and prosecutors, but if it is the HDP, the Kurds continue to sleep in the community and the ruling sleep, the alliance, and they continue to rule together and to rule. Now, the pressures really continued here until HDP. Here, the fundamental basis for the solution of the Kurdish issue, especially what we are experiencing right now, is the unresolved Kurdish issue, and it's about continuing the violence policy on purpose. Why? Because now, with these proceedings, let's finish the democratic politics that are being asked to remove these immunitys. What happens when democratic politics is over? Let's really think for a moment, the HDP has been shut down, we've all been in prison, we've all been punished, we've all been demoted, the party's been de facto dysfunctional -- they won't be able to do that, of course, something different -- let's suppose for a moment, what happens? Will democracy or freedoms be investigated in Turkey? Will there be peace, will economic developments grow, or will Turkey run further to the European Union? Will our foreign policy improve? There's no such thing. Ya, you don't know the value of HDP. We are here to fight for a nonviolent solution, people who show our lives: just as long as there are no more deaths in this country, as long as the Kurdish issue is solved on the basis of equal and free citizenship, the Alevi issue solved, the women's rights resolved, the environmental issue resolved, the representation of youth ended, all kinds of discrimination in this country, the possessions of the Suryanians, the property of the foundations returned. We're defending a full-fledged democracy. The more pressure we're under, the more violent it gets; it's in nature, it's in the nature of politics. If you destroy the trust of the people... Now, suppose you had the public say a sentence like this: So what do you think we should do, we elected the MP, they couldn't work, they arrested him, then I'll go to the mountain. Don't you think they're saying? They do. As the pressure on democratic politics increases, other options are sought, in the dialectics of this work. And so, please, let us think seriously, without delay. But the next painting is much heavier. For example, one of the total attacks against the HDP was the recent indictment against our Co-Chair Demirtaş as Erdoğan's terrorist. It's a terrible thing, other friends of ours have expressed it, and why are we talking about it? Because we can't let it go, we can't let it go. We, the HDP, do not accept that our Co-Chair should be called "terrorist" or "legal" or "legal." We're the president's deputies, the party's deputies, and if he's a terrorist, we're terrorists, and the voters who voted for us are terrorists. So, what's the definition of terrorism? How dare you say that, and yet this sentence has not been denied, has not been taken back? We're definitely not gonna let this slander go. Now, of course it's about Yellow Star, it's about Tuğba Hezer Ozurk, it's about the entire HDP. The bar has been increased, upgraded, upgraded, and attacks on HDP have been reached to the latest terrorism. Oh, my God! We're here, we have a gun? Are we defending violence? We were, in a brutal way... in this country, I just told you how many parts of our group have been divided into. When our co-chairs are inside, when our MPs are in jail, and we're sitting in Parliament, it's very valuable. We could go back to sinimille, we could break all hope, because democratic politics and power of attorney are no longer safe. We're trying to restore that trust, we're telling the public about it, let's not give up democratic politics, let's fight democratic politics, let's fight freedom, we don't deserve it. The more we talk about it, the more explanations there are. We paged, we're doing it again. If so, Mr. Erdogan must give evidence to the prosecutors. Well, here, in his statement, he actually said... he had many crimes. These crimes... there's a red line between prosecutors and Erdogan, a private line. Because, for some reason, they use the same phrases at the same time. But now that he hasn't, he's got a problem with prosecutors because there's no crime. Demirtaş has yet to appear in court. All the cases he's been on, all the cases he's on, all the cases he's off the hook for. He hasn't been in court since November 4th. Hakkari MP Selma Irmak has yet to appear in court despite all his insistence. Sebahat Tuncel wanted to go out, and once he went to Malatiah. They didn't remove the bunker. Gülser Yıldırım cannot go to trial in Mardin. İdris Baluken insists on going to his hearing in Diyarbakır, which is not. Çağlar Demirel wants to go to his hearing in Diyarbakır. A Abdullah Zaydan was brought as an exception from Edirne. Our other lawmakers and co-chairs, let's go to the judge and defend them. They say, "You can't make a statement outside of SEGBIS." It's called. Well, explain this crime. We call it. But if he doesn't, I'm telling Erdogan that as a lawyer, you're committing these crimes. He will be charged with three counts of the Turkish Penal Code. He's confessing himself. First: a crime-making arrangement in the Turkish Penal Code 271 is sentenced to up to three years in prison. If there's no crime, if he's making it up, he's got to go to jail. Second: Turkish Penal Code Article 288 is subject to the effect of fair trial; it is also a fine. The Turkish Penal Code has Article 283 (TMK law) to hide the crime and the criminal. If he knows about the crime, he knows about the criminals, why has he stopped talking so far? Really, we invite you to explain, and the penalty for that is up to ten years in prison. Now, I would like to repeat on behalf of our group the call from our Co-Chair: really, whatever document you have, please, give it to the prosecutors, please. And if you do not, then you are slanderous, and you are liars. Because if there's a document... otherwise it's a slander, so there's no basis for it. Now, he also says something about this, so it's a very remarkable issue, Mr. Erdogan in his speech in G20... that nothing he says about Demirtaş is true, we know that, there is no basis for it. As his opponent, Mr. Demirtaş has a sense of revenge, a sense of rematch. Now, which one should I correct? He says Erdogan, my brother from the Kurd of '53. He says. Nothing he says is true, and it's not true. Why? If he'd seen the Kurds as his brother, he wouldn't have knocked over the negotiating table. If he had seen the Kurds as his brothers, he would have fallen and fallen. If he had seen the Kurds as his brother, Erdogan, the people responsible for the Roboski massacre would be in prison right now, not without a warrant. The Roboski massacre is the death of young people as a result of Turkish fighter planes bombing Kurdish villagers. What kind of Kurdish brotherhood is that if you're not identified and accused of using the plane on TSK planes? You can't even tolerate your monument. Now, the trustee wouldn't destroy the Roboski Memorial if he were a brother. If he had a brother, he would not have burned 1 year olds, journalists, women, young people in the basement. You're not the Kurdish brother, Erdogan. I want to say this clearly. History will make up what the Kurds have. I advise him not to worry about it. But we know very well he doesn't have a brother. I'm speaking here as a member of the third-largest party group in parliament, and I'm a member of the parliament that my co-Chairs and my fellow lawmakers, my members of the NGOs, are in prison, being held hostage. You say "Arrested" but there's a response to imprisonment in the Penal Code. The criminal quality, the current evidence situation; I don't know, catalog crime, you know, the constitutional issue-- well, there's a Balbay verdict; there's no arrest in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the right to free elections. This is a matter of political hostages. Now, Demirtaş wanted to go to trial, you wanted to put handcuffs on him. No one can put handcuffs on Demirtaş, nor can you. And you'll never, ever get another congressman on the floor again. We'll expose you to this, to this, anywhere. By attempting to put handcuffs on you, you're actually showing your level and your anger under simple circumstances. It is an honor for us, for our party, for our people, that Demirtaş should not be handcuffed. Don't worry, history will write on the pages of persecution that you have failed to overcome all your unlawfulities politically, Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ, and that you have tried to defeat him through the judiciary. And he shall write the stand of Demirtaş, and the stand of Pendadağ, and the face of honour, and do not worry. Yes, now that the day has not been fixed, only on the day of the trial, the last of Ayhan Bilgen has been determined; 8 August, but Mr. Demirtaş is still on trial day, our other MPs have been determined. But they say... it hasn't been a day since the beginning, it hasn't been. What is it? You said, "We will judge, we will judge." You're going to pay, we're going to answer. Okay. You said we'd judge, judge, take him to court. Why are you trying so hard to make sure he doesn't come out? I'd also like to address AKP's legal commissions: take Milahattin Demirtaş to court, and he will teach you a lesson in law. Who will be tried in that courtroom, all Turkey and the world will see the public. You, from where you sit, from the G20 Summit, when you declare a leader a terrorist, there's no credibility, there's no credibility, there's no value to what you say, there's no value to what you say. Come on, judge, take this law class. Oh, don't be so afraid of Demirtaş. We know you're scared. If you're scared, don't be so obvious. You know, you feel things, but you don't show them, so don't be so obvious to us. I would also like to address the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. İsmail Kahraman. Mr. President may not have known, we didn't have a chance to tell him yesterday. Mr. Demirtaş has appealed to the Constitutional Court for arrest. The Department of Justice also issued a statement of opinion. The Ministry of Justice says in a nutshell that the arrest of the State Department does not prevent him from participating in parliamentary activities. The Ministry of Justice has given this answer officially. MPs cannot visit Demirtaş. We've applied over and over for a constitutional amendment proposal, and our group's vice presidents have made a motion to come and vote. It's not accepted. Even we communicate through lawyers. That's what the Justice Department said. Demirtaş also said: "I want to hold my parliamentary group meeting through SEGBIS. He said rightly -- part of the legislative activity is to hold a group meeting in parliament, to participate in the work of the legislature" -- and he wrote a petition to the Parliamentary presidency through lawyers. A week has passed, Mr. Speaker still hasn't responded. The person in question is our co-Chair, Denizhattin Demirtaş.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0208par0309	He's busy buying cars, so he couldn't write. He's buying a car, a car.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0310	Sir?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0208par0311	He's buying a car, so he couldn't write. He's busy with them now, Speaker.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0312	Oh, yeah? What car is he buying?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0209par0313	If you'd like to come forward for a moment, sit down and talk, Mr. New Yorker. Why are you interfering? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0315	Now, Mr. Speaker, Demirtaş is also a member of the TBMM, the chairman of the third largest group in this Parliament, why don't you answer his petition? It's a shame if you're actually buying a car. You haven't said a word in your House about 12 MPs being in prison, and you haven't said a word so far about lawmakers being in prison.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0210par0316	Who are you talking to?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0317	To the Speaker. You didn't say anything. I've told you before, it's a little bit funny in the press, and I said: "If there was an agency manager, he'd go to the apartment and say, "What's your situation?" We're talking about the Speaker of Parliament. Why is my member under arrest? I'll go after him. I mean, let me see how he's doing. These are my members.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0210par0319	The Speaker is called clothes.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0320	Yeah, yeah, yeah. There's no such explanation, but here we find our words rude and hurtful, but what we say is rude and hurtful.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0211par0321	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0322	I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0211par0323	Please...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0324	I mean, you guys must be really tired, or I'll be talking all night.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0211par0325	No, I'm not tired, but everything has its logic, and you know very well...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0212par0326	Mr. President, may God grant you such defense.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0327	But I never said what I said again. If there is...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0328	I don't think so.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0329	We'll get the records out, then we'll see if there's another one.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0204par0330	It's really about as many different things as possible.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0331	Mr. President, he's making a plea, defense.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0332	So it's become more of an accusation than a defense. Please, I beg you, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0333	Mr. President, he's defending, he's defending. It's not even right to call it packing.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0334	Dear God, I'm not speaking to you, please.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0335	Don't even call it packing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0336	It's none of your business, Mr. Godkulu. It's none of your business. I told Mr. Danış Beştaş. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0338	It's my business, I'm a member of this Parliament, it's my business.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0339	I'm not talking to you, it's none of your business.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0340	It is my business. You can't call it packing.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0341	None of your business.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0342	You can't call it packing.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0343	You can't speak without a promise, Your Holiness.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0344	You can't call it packing. There's a defense here.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0345	None of your business, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0346	There's a defense here. I'm a lawyer, you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0215par0347	Mr. Aydın left the law in 2007.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0348	None of your business. He's defending, he'll recover his defense.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0213par0349	There's a defense here, you can't say "toparation."
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0216par0350	I'm resting, too.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0351	Am I supposed to look at what you're saying? I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0216par0352	Mr. President, I really think it's one of the very clear things written here in the Civil Code. You'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0353	Look, in the 1994 immunitys, the MP was given ten minutes to defend himself, in front of me, in the same negotiation procedure. An hour, an hour, tops, and he's done it. Look, it's been two hours and forty-four minutes, and we're listening patiently, and we're listening.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0217par0354	How patient you are!
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0214par0355	Of course you're arguing, but look, the Civil Code always invites us to the agenda. You often draw a general framework that will escape the defense and lead the president to all sorts of accusations against the Speaker. Yes, we respect your right to defend, we don't interfere, it's gone for about an hour and a half, but pick it up from time to time. There's no harm in saying it. You need to exercise your right to defend yourself in a reasonable manner. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0357	Mr. President, I'll tell you now. The Civil Code clearly states that the time of defence cannot be limited and that there is no limit on defence, written and written. I speak under the rules of the Civil Code, and what I really say and talk about is all part of the defense system. Or who is Faysal Yellow Star now? He is the MP of HDP. They face different accusations with other lawmakers. I have to explain in this integrity. But ten minutes in 1994, if it's three hours today, then we've gone too far, so that's another irony. If we have received this from 1994 to today, there is nothing to say.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0219par0359	We only took the time, but the head's the same.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0360	We bought time, so we've made a lot of money on historically defensive rights.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0220par0361	Please, let's finish. We haven't set a deadline, but hopefully we'll get it done in a reasonable amount of time.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0362	Now, I've been gathering my words to the Speaker, and we're calling him, "You can't ignore it anymore." Although I'm guessing what you're going to say, we do, but I'd like to put it on the record, in history. Indeed, we also say to the Minister of Justice: "Construct the group meeting with Demirtaş because your opinion as Minister of Justice commands you to do so, and you must do so." Now, valuable lawmakers, if I may gather, I've tried to draw a frame in my defense that is, in fact, not in the background of the files that are coming at us because of the absence. This is part of a political plan, in order to put it together for a long time. The newspaper reports I showed about Faysal Yellowstar, the talks, the accusations, all of which are actually the infrastructure. Of course, this is also not independent of attacks on the People's Democratic Party. There is no period in the history of Turkey where Parliament will lose its dignity. At no time were 12 members of parliament in prison. And on top of that, the lawmakers out there, we get our share of these attacks every day. For example, our Siirt MP Besime Konca, please note that the fellow lawyers have been arrested three times for the propaganda act, from the same file. The penalty for the verb propaganda has been given for a year, normally ten months, suspended, translated into money. Each time he was released, the attorney general objected, was arrested again, again, for the third time, and the local court sentenced him to two years and six months, Batman. Do you know how many days he's been confirmed? In three days. The sentence against the MP has been confirmed every three days.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0221par0364	The exceptions work fast.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0365	He works fast, he works faster when he's a congressman, he works a bit faster once he's a HDP MP and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on. Our Group Vice President Ahmet Yıldırım has been sentenced to a year and three months for insulting the President. Sounds like a joke, doesn't it? The same insult... and the same word, I think, I don't remember, but one concept, a lot of people were acquitted, Kilicdaroglu, other MPs, because under criticism, there are decisions and 53 were applied. Why? A year and three months were fined for a memorial for the fact that he threw a letter on our deputy incumbent, Ibrahim Ayhan, in order to reduce his parliamentary position.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0222par0367	You're being discriminated against.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0368	Yeah, yeah, positive, so the courts are working on us right now, and they're in a big hurry to get a conviction verdict fast. Strangely enough, in these trials... for example, the Ageds Demirel and Abdullah Zaydan, the same day in Diyarbakir, before interim decisions were imposed, one was fast, one was eight years and one was a month, and I forgot for a moment...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0223par0369	Seven and a half years.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0218par0370	...seven-and-a-half years in prison. Why am I saying this? Prisoners continue to be held, and that's how you punish friends on the outside. We haven't been able to locate the target here. Does the government want to officially shut down the party by punishing the entire HDP Group in such a way that it reduces its parliamentary position? I'm asking this question directly in defense. There's no verb we can't account for. We are not charged with bribery or theft or any other crime. The accusations against us are all about making politics, using democratic politics. All of the cases related to us are our party activities; it's the celebration of the Nevroz, March 8th, the party rallies, the press statements, the opinion statements, and we do what the MPs do. It's a crime to even meet the police commissioners. Now, in a situation like this, when 11 of our friends were in prison, three or five of our friends were sentenced, while the other trials continued, and we were in a hurry to get two drop-offs in front of us. Of course, in the meantime, the deputyship of our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ and Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan have also been reduced. If two more of our friends are demoted, four of our friends will be deputized. It's not just a matter of opinion. Only the public can take back the legislature. The people gave the authority, the people voted, the support. What'd he give it to you for? He said to represent him. But for the sake of the ruling party's political ambitions here, the judiciary has been ordered to destroy a party for the sake of political future, and it's going smoothly. We have to stop this. The reputation of Parliament must be maintained, the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is in your hands. It's really up to us to take a stand against it. Every one of us is a substitute. I'd really like to have the ruling party deputies here, because every vote you give is going to be a road map of how much you care about the will of the people and the will of the nation, how we're going to survive together. But unfortunately, there are very few of our 10-12 friends from the ruling party. I wonder how they'll vote when they vote. In the morning, in the evening, New Dawn, if they decide on the headlines of Akit, they will have made a huge historical error. It's really going to be a signature because they're false headlines. We've got proof of that, we've got proof of that. This political attack, these political operations, these trials -- as I've just told you -- is a crime against humanity because it's being carried out and aimed at a goal, and the 77th article of the Turkish Penal Code has clearly orchestrated it, and it doesn't need to be a judge, a prosecutor, but it's enough to give instructions. Actually, I'd like to finish before the House is fully ejaculated. Otherwise, I'd be better off, but I'm looking at the faces of my friends, and I'm sleeping like this, and I'm usually seeing facial expressions like they want me to finish, so I'm going to end it, but I'm going to do it for three hours, Mayor. I'm really getting it together. I mean, I've told you all these things, but what we've come to is the point where we all have to take care of democracy. Since we can't solve the Kurdish issue, because we're trying to solve the Kurdish issue in the same way, we're now about to disappear into Turkey in a vortex of unresolvedness, and in foreign policy, there's certainly an approach to the Kurds on the basis of all our assessments of the developments in Middle East, of the attacks on us, of Germany today, of what we're talking about Syria, of what we're talking about today, of what we're talking about today. That's not true, Kurdish people are not enemies of Turkey, Kurds can never be enemies of the Turks. People don't turn on each other; it's the systems, states and states that create hostility, and unfortunately, the people continue to face each other. Turkey has only one exit, which is democracy, law rules, international universal values that we sign. Today, many contracts are under Turkey's signature. Starting with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, the Convention on Child Rights Against Women, the Convention on Avoiding Every Kind of Segregation, the Convention on Local Governments and Autonomation, and we need to have our signatures on a lot of other contracts. They can't have an app like this: I sign the contract, but I put pressure on human rights advocates and politicians. It's not a double standard. There is only one way for us to stand up to Europe, to be more democratic, to give more rights and freedom to our own citizens. If Europe is telling us that we've crushed our own citizen, we need to think, not stand up, but bow our heads. That's where we stand when they abuse their own citizens. We speak to Israel for what he did in Palestine. Although our agreements with Israel, aside from those secret affairs, I don't want to go into it now, it's too long. But there are no limits in international relations, there are no more human values in the world, and the European Union is a whole of values, and if we accept all of those values, we have to respect torture here, pressure politics, rights and freedoms, and we have to respect freedom of the press. The writers of the Cumhuriyet daily are still likely to be tried for three or four days, and they continue, and as a great shame, they also go to the history pages in Turkey. Rights defenders are back in prison. Academics... did you know that two surgeons we knew very well were arrested in Diyarbakir yesterday? One is Selçuk Mizraklı, former head of the Medical Chamber; the other is Şemsettin Koç, former President of the Medical Chamber of Diyarbakır. It was up to the doctors, this hunt, these attacks. Why? What are we aiming for? No more democracy, let's not take part in the construction of fascism here. As Congress, I'm calling on you to preserve our dignity over these demeaning activities. Faysal Sarıyıldı is a member of parliament who has earned the right to enter this parliament, just like you. He's not here on a test, he's not an officer, he's not a worker here, and we're not the boss. We don't really have the right to deputize him. Losing the legislature is not a matter of signing off on a worker, nor is it about exporting thousands of officers in a KHK. Now, as I said in the beginning, authority is for the unconditional nation. It requires that we break its word. If we're going to do this in this House, I really suggest you consider these arguments. I tried to give you objective data, case files, footage of the media-reports. I thank you all so much for your patience, for listening, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0382	Thank you. The talks on the commission report are completed by 12:54 p.m. According to Article 138 of the Interior Charter, the open vote of the commission report, which envisions the reduction of the parliamentary position of Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldıl, will be held 24 hours after the talks are finalised. Congressmans, I'd like to express one thing in particular. We need to discuss the fight against terror and terror organizations by separating the fight against the Kurds.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0225par0387	What is fighting the Kurds, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0226par0388	That's history.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0389	There is absolutely no hostility to the Kurd, there is absolutely no intolerance to the Kurdish people. The state doesn't kill, it doesn't do; humanity doesn't commit, it doesn't.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0227par0390	You can't interfere with the defense limits, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0391	On the contrary, the state is fighting terror and terror organizations that have committed the real crimes against the people of the region, the Kurds, who have committed the greatest atrocities against my brothers and murdered innocent people...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0228par0392	Mr. President, the word "fighting Kurds" alone is problematic. What does it mean to fight the Kurds, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0393	And as long as there's terror, the war on terror will continue, that's how it's supposed to be known.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0229par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0395	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0229par0396	The last word is defense. You know something, don't you?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0397	Yeah, okay, he did the defense, more than three hours.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0230par0398	What does it mean to fight the Kurds, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0229par0399	Okay, well, then you shouldn't be taking any chances right now.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0400	I didn't interfere at all.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0229par0401	You won't.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0231par0402	Mr. President, what does it mean to fight the Kurds?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0403	But after we've finished, we know that there are more accusations than defenses.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0229par0404	What's that got to do with anything? So this defense is something he can do the way he wants to do it.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0231par0405	Mr. President, what does it mean to fight the Kurds?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0406	The state is fighting terrorism, not Kurdish brothers.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0231par0407	Mr. President, what does it mean to fight the Kurds?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0408	On the contrary, I'm saying that the PKK is fighting a terrorist organization that's putting pressure on Kurds and oppressing them.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0231par0410	What does it mean to fight the Kurds?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0411	Why is this bothering you? Why is this bothering you?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0232par0412	Very good, you've got the applause of the night, is that it?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0231par0413	Mr. President, what does it mean to fight the Kurds?
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0414	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0233par0415	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0416	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0233par0417	Now, right now...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0234par0418	You don't even fit in.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0419	I'm following the pattern.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0234par0420	You don't fit.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0421	No, I'm done, I'm done.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0235par0422	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0423	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0236par0424	The struggle against Kurds is a state mentality, full, complete.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0425	I gave my word to Ms. Coral. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0429	Mr. President, I spoke on behalf of our Deputy Faysal Yellow Star and I defended myself.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0430	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0431	The right to defend is one that can never be interfered with.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0432	Exactly.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0433	And after the defense, no one can interpret it with an additional word.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0434	The defense is over, I never interfered.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0435	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0436	I haven't had the slightest bit of defensive action.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0437	Mr. President, no, if I may...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0438	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0238par0439	The last word is for the defense, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0440	Who did I defend myself to? I did it to the MPs. Everyone's going to vote and make a decision.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0441	Okay, I said the vote will be in 24 hours.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0442	But you speaking as acting Speaker of Parliament is a direct irregularity, a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0443	Certainly not, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0444	And that's definitely grounds for a mistrial in front of the court.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0445	Absolutely, absolutely not.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0446	I mean, that's unacceptable.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0224par0447	After the defence is over, the vote will be held in twenty-four hours. I said, "I have spoken."
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0237par0448	The last word is for the defense.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0239par0449	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0240par0450	The last word is for the defense.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0451	With an offer of subcommittee change number 492 in the third row...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0239par0452	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0453	...we begin negotiations with the Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0242par0459	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0460	In the 4th place...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0242par0461	Mr. President, I'm a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, and you can't say fighting Kurds.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0462	...we begin negotiations with Bill of Law 491 and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0243par0466	As Vice President of this Assembly, you cannot use the word "fighting the Kurds," you must take back your words.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0467	And since the commissions can't be found after that, the decision has been made...
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0243par0468	Kurds are citizens of this republic, you can't say fighting Kurds.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0469	...to discuss the laws and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (July 26th, 2017).
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0243par0470	You can't say fighting the Kurds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-25sit04spe0241par0471	...14 o'clock. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
