tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Elif Doğan Turkmen, who wanted to address the 95th anniversary of Adana's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you are, Mr. Doğan Türkmen.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, our Adana, survived the invasion of the enemy by fighting for national independence and salvation on January 5, 1922. I thank and cherish all our martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who wrote this glorious history. I'm celebrating the January 5th salvation of all our countrymen. Our Adana had fought the Battle of Salvation with brave men and women. Adana is the land of the Karaaphath, and of the Remzi Hearts, and of the Sheikh Cemilites, and of the Corporals of Adile, and of Osman Muddan. Isn't Adana the city where the war began? Our Adana, just like Anatolia, women-men, Alevi-Sunni, Kurd-Türk, Çerçek, Arab, young-ager, all fought for salvation together, but where we are today, our Adana and Anatolia, if necessary, are ready to fight for salvation again. Our esteemed MPs are the constitutions that crown the War of Salvation, which have not changed in 1937 to start in 1924, including the principle of secularism. These are the values and gains of the Republic. Here is the unchanging principle of the Constitution today, the secularism principle, and unfortunately, those who advocate this principle are in prison. This country has judges, this country has republican prosecutors, this country has palaces of justice, but this country has palaces of justice, no justice. For this reason, all of them who did not condemn the massacre of Ortaköy were on social media because of this massacre, while they were walking the streets, particularly as a judge of the federation, while they were still sharing in this matter, unfortunately, their only crime -- our youth who are now defending criminal secularism in Turkey -- are now in prison and in prison. Ortaköy massacres, Beşiktaş massacres, Ankara massacres and other massacres... With all these massacres going on, there's no resignation from an executive or an elected officer. Our Koniya MP Hüsni Bozkurt Abid is here, and I want to use one of his words: the building collapses, the contractors are responsible, the car crashes, the driver is responsible, the train crashes, the engineer is responsible. Well, there's been so many massacres, so many people dying, who's responsible? Does one of our executives, a governor, a governor, a chief of police, a minister or a prime minister ever think about resigning? To govern the state is not to condemn it, but to govern the state is to eliminate the problems. But today, unfortunately, running the government has become like a teflon pan to us, and whatever you put on doesn't stick. The whole world is talking about massacres, what is Turkey talking about? The presidential system. I say it all the time. There has been no electricity in Aladağ for weeks. Could the agenda of Aladağ be the presidential system? Ceyhan is promised an energy reserve of every election. Could Ceyhan have a presidential system on the agenda? Although the thermal plant was still half operational in the floodbrain, it began to poison the villagers by polluting the ash and water. Could the problem with the Floodbrain be the presidential system? All the people of Hearts, and of Seyhan, and of Sarıçam, and of Çukurova, are broken from unemployment, and we receive dozens of phone calls every day. Do these people have a problem with the presidential system? My fellow lawmakers are what Adana is, and Turkey is what it is. Adana's problems, whatever Adana's agenda, are Turkey's problems and agenda. But unfortunately, we see... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the agenda of the AKP is not Turkey's agenda, but AKP's agenda is the presidential agenda. But I want to make it clear from here: as long as there are Republican People's Party in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as long as there are Republican People's Party members in Turkey, we will not compromise secularism or the achievements of the republic. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Doğan Türkmen. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Samsun MP Erhan Eşaş, who asked for a statement about Samsun's problems. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Now, we, Samsun Wednesday Airport have a track repair job, a job that has been seriously busy at the moment with Samsun's agenda. I'd like to bring this up in today's non-responsive conversation because there's a serious lack of law here... I'll do it. The Minister insists, claims, I won't obey the law, I won't obey the contract. Here's the thing, guys, there's been a 19-centimeter collapse on the runway. Of course, it's not something that happened in a day, it's almost at its final stage, and if it's any more than that, the track will be shut down anyway, if it's shut down, it's almost like this. I've asked the Minister of Transport about this at the General Assembly before, and there's been no progress from that day. Now, first of all, I'll tell you the legal dimension -- there are three or four dimensions of the work -- the legal dimension is this: a tender is being made on July 15, 2016, and a tender is being finalized. According to the tender, this track is scheduled to be repaired in a year's time, starting in October 2016 and ending in October 2017. Another key element in the contract is that the airport will not be shut down in passenger traffic during this period. Let me read that clause right there without a condition: the airport will be taken by the contractor to ensure that air traffic is not interrupted during the construction of the contract. So it's foreseen that this repair work will be done before we shut down the airport. Now, the Minister of Transport is visiting Samsun, and he says, "I will not comply with this requirement." Now that he's here, the administration has some discretion from time to time. What's with the discretion? If there's any public interest. Is there a public interest here? There's no way there's any public interest. Because the airport's supposed to be shut down when it shouldn't be. If this tender had been made from the beginning, because it's a job that's going to take place in a year, it's going to keep the machine park there for a year, it's going to employ workers for a year, so if you'd given it to this firm for three months, you'd have already concluded this tender at a much lower price, but we're not on that side of the business. So with the airport shut down here, Samsun will suffer serious damage. The basic terms of the tender are changing, but even so, the Minister of Transport says, "I will not comply with the contract." He says, "I will not comply with the contract." He says, "I will cause public harm." That's the idea of law in our country. Even if he has already started, the new calendar predicts that he should start in March 2017 and finish at the end of May. If it had started on time by now, the contract would have already been half-time, it would have reached the predicted calendar. So... Oh, what's the point of the job for Samsun? We've lost 500,000 passengers. There's already serious problems with Samsun tourism, his trade, economic losses, and a serious loss of economics from here on out. Tour organisers are now canceling their connections to companies and hotels, which are being canceled because three months -- three months, supposedly three months -- so operators, tour organisers are taking precautions against the risk that this is going to be more than three months. Oh, there's going to be some damage to Samsun over three months. Besides, after that, there's the hearing-impaired Olympics over the year, where he's seriously at risk. So, there are passengers who buy economic tickets, and they risk burning tickets; that's what happens. He's standing up in the Samsun. Civil society agencies, occupational organizations, writing, but no one's ever heard of it. Now, well, that's how the contract was made, but maybe it's not possible to fix the airport without shutting down the runway. That's possible, my friends. That's how we made Antalya, Sabiha Gökçen, in Turkey. In fact, our local firms have done this kind of repairs abroad, so it's possible to do their job without closing the airport. Of course, first of all, there's a serious... the AKP's doing everything wrong, and it's doing it badly. It may seem like a small business, but it's important to Samsun. Now, for once, this wasn't planned. Samsun needs runway number two. None of these discussions would have occurred if he had begun on the 2nd floor in his time. And why isn't he doing this until he's 19 centimeters? This is a serious neglect and planning error. So, if a government, a minister, a public administration, I don't know law, I don't know contract. No one has the right to complain about the situation we're in today, folks. After that, we find fault with international organizations, sir, why is Turkey in the Competition Index, you know, in recent years, having a bad performance? Why is Turkey falling down the steps in the Business Environment Index? Why, sir, in public administration, in trust indexes, is our performance bad? No one has the right to complain, to look for crimes. What needs to be done is, I'm calling from here to the Minister of Transport: Please comply with the requirements and I say to the General Assembly to do the repair work of Samsun, Samsun, before you victimize this airport, and I salute it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Master. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Osmaniye MP Mujahit Durmusoğlu, who asked to address the 95th anniversary of Osmaniye's release from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on January 7th, because of the 95th anniversary of Osmaniye's deliverance from enemy occupation. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. As the grandkids of our ancient heroic era, we're going through another very important day and we're making a new history. As Rahime Hatun struggled when the French invaded Osmaniye, so did my Boz sister's heart when she went down to the square with her truck on July 15th. When the French invaded Osmaniye, just as Süleyman the Palalite stood up against the enemy on July 15th, my brother Metin Doğan came before the tanks with the same faith. When the French invade Osmaniye, Köse Mehmet is still told of his actions, the fallen Petty Officer Omar Halisdemir will be told from the tongue years later. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we all know that all recent painful events have only one goal. They don't want the strong and great Turkey our President set in front of us as a target. Whether they like it or not, we'll carry our country to a much stronger tomorrow, both in our territory and in the world. We all know those who attack our soldiers, our police, our civilian citizens, our country, tourists who come to visit, men and women, young men, without making any distinctions, treacherous and treacherous. Though their names, their ringleaders, and their methods may change, we are aware that they are trying to divide this beautiful country and these beautiful people, to offend the brother, to mean to us. If the Republic of Turkey and our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, are in line to take our hat in front of us and act accordingly. Every step we take, every decision we make, every plan we make, every word we say must be for our government and our nation. Finally, a violent attack at an amusement center in Istanbul has made it clear that traitors are focused on hurting us. Every life that we lose in this process is tearing our hearts apart, and on the other hand, our resolve and determination to fight. The fact that many terrorist organizations from all sides are attacking our country is not independent of the incidents in our region. So we are determined to destroy threats against our country at its source, and we will not compromise our resolve in the slightest. Mr. President, it's no different than those who bombed the nation's Parliament on the night of July 15th, attacked our soldiers on leave in Kayseri, assassinated the Russian ambassador, murdered our villagers in the burritos, killed our peasants in treason, blew themselves up in İstilal Street and in front of Ankara Station. According to our belief, he killed all mankind who killed a human being unjustly. As our President has often expressed, Turkey is fighting for a new sovereignty today. Our national unity and unity, our territorial integrity, our official and private institutions, our economy, our foreign policy, and all the elements that sustain us are under major attack. For terrorist organizations and for their benefit, anyone who supports these organizations openly or secretly is just the visible faces and a simple tongs of our great struggle. Without entering a nation of Tefrika, the heart cannot digest the ball as the enemy/multiple hits it. The deceased Mehmet Akif says. Well, these days we have to hold on to our unity and our elbows a lot tighter than we have to stick together. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I put an end to my words, I humbly and gratefully thank our veterans, who have given their lives for the sake of our country, our flag, our future, and our future. I wish our heroic soldiers and policemen, who are now serving for the safety of our country in the country and abroad, the glory of God the Almighty. With his number of martyrs in the fight against terrorism, I am once again proud to welcome the 95th anniversary of the liberation of our Ottoman leader Osmaniye, who has found a separate place in the heart of all of Turkey, my brave and courageous Ottoman countrymen. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Durmusoglu. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the electronic system and demanded a word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0008par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. I think the presidential system has started a single-man era before it's seen in Congress. We have learned today that an investigation has been launched against President Gökhan Bahadir, who refused to attend the traditionally traditionalized meeting of presidents, on charges of defaming President Gökhan Bahadir, who was in the District of Karaşı district of Tripoli. What's more understandable is that Turkey no longer has the right to citizenship or the right to law. The Mukhtar is a person who is not a member of any party, who is not a party, who is equal to those who choose him or those who don't; the party does not discriminate from people. The headman knows this, but I'm afraid Erdogan, who now declares himself president, still President according to the Constitution, doesn't know. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the fact that there have been mass breakouts from the AKP has put fear into the hearts of AKP executives, even those who have been placed in the state and those who are related to AKP. The AKP has recently been frightened and has begun to take them into custody by members of the public household who advocate secularism. In fact, the Home Secretary was so scared that he had to report to us where you saw the publicists who were defending secularism. The publicists say that there is a flag that must be raised in the face of regression, and that is the flag of secularism. Laikism means freedom, brotherhood, and the struggle for human life. We invite everyone to be the guardians of this struggle. I fit in with that call, and I agree with the community center members. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0011par0072	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0012par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Inflation, unemployment, low employment, high foreign currency, and the loss of value of TLS are not the solution to structural problems. As a solution, almost all goods and services are raised, tax rates are increased, and the price of wrong policies is being paid to our citizens. Shortly after inflation rose to 8.53 per cent, one of the President's chief economic advisers today admits that Turkey is rapidly undermining the dangers of unemployment and inflation. But what is the government doing when the environment of trust should be created and structural reforms should begin immediately? He ignores the country's economic and social chaos, extends the OHAL, devotes his entire shift to a constitutional amendment that will bring the presidential system. The government wants to prioritize the right to our citizens' lives, prioritize the economy, and withdraw the offer of constitutional amendments to turn our country into a dictatorship.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0011par0077	Mr. Ahmet Akin...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0013par0079	Thank you. The AKP's understanding continues to view everything, every opportunity as a source of opportunity. Balıkesir Metropolitan Municipality saw the streets as a parking lot and launched a parkomat app. Because of this practice in our districts and districts, our people had to pay for the car they parked in front of their own house. Our city of Edremit moved the parkomat app to court. The court has recently made up its mind and has cancelled a paid parking app on the road at Edremit. I'd like to thank our Edremit City Hall for bringing this wrong practice to court for the benefit of the public. This decision must be a precedent. Our citizen is not a customer. City halls are for public service. The citizen already pays taxes for it, and it is not right to ask for the money of every service. Balıkesir Metropolitan Municipality must meet the requirements of this precedent and end the practice of parkomats that annoy Balıkesir people.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0014par0082	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0015par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's agriculture has serious problems. Instead of supporting our farmers from the village to the city, why don't you apply an agricultural policy based on production planning, which imports basic agricultural products such as sunflowers, wheat, tripods, soybeans, lentils, living animals, red meat, and corn? Why can't you appoint vets, agricultural engineers, food engineers and water products engineers to plan production? I'm going to ask the Minister of Agriculture again: why don't you give them a promising explanation while thousands of engineers and vets are waiting to be appointed? Last year, you said you were going to make 3,071 appointments, and you appointed half of them. In addition, you have terminated nearly 800 staff members due to the ▪. You're announcing a national agricultural project, and I wonder who you'll be implementing it with.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0016par0088	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Just last Sunday 39 people were murdered in the heart of Istanbul, while the perpetrator of this massacre continued to wander the streets and pose a threat to our citizens, while yesterday the AKP judiciary arrested two young people whose only concern was to defend secularism simply because they were anti-presidential. Those who have allowed ISIS to be mauled, those who provide all kinds of support for ISIS, those who supply arms are out there today, but journalists who have written this fact have been arrested for sixty days. Ahmet Şık, who was arrested by the judges for revealing the secrets of the congregation's dirty alliances, is in prison today on charges of propaganda by the believers. I'd like to address those who target the young people of this country, the journalists of this country, with their judgment, with their media, with their white trolls: Don't beat around the bush, tell them honestly that we have arrested them because they have defended secularism, they have stood up to the presidency. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0018par0094	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. In the town of Değirmedere district of Kopeeli Lakecuk, a group of turbaned people came to the door of a Christmas celebration and asked to come in and tell them that Christmas was a sin. It's quite a thought, not by security forces, but by the owner of the place, that the group of turbans, thought to have been part of a religious cult, roamed freely. Is there any way to prevent these events? While these turbans roam freely, the mentality that arrests young people who want secularism is against law, justice, and conscience. We're not going to give the lightman a pass, but the flag of secularism should be raised in the face of regression. I say, "Catch the massacrers and those who prepare the ground for it," I say, "Thank you."
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0018par0098	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week there was an intense flood in Mersin. Mersin, Peacetown, Tip, Ears, Yeşiltepe, Kazanlı and Adanalıoğlu are underwater. The highest point of agriculture is 1 meter underwater. There is near 3m snow in the Toros Mountains, February, March, when the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environmental Forest has been spotted and the Minister of Finance has been declared a disaster zone, and the Minister of Finance has also sent cash to the region; the construction of our farmers' debts to farm loans, the Agriculture Bank and private banks; the profit is close to 3m; and in February, March, there are greater disasters waiting for Mersin. I'd like to set up a crisis table and say that urgent measures must be taken, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0018par0102	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0021par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. My request and request is from the Minister of Health. Although there are all kinds of technical equipment at Sivaslı State Hospital, there are not many doctors in the field. There are 1 obstetrician, 1 pediatrician, 1 general surgeon, 1 internalist missing. There's only one internalist, but it's definitely not enough, so we need another one. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health to make arrangements for the appointment of these doctors. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0022par0108	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0023par0110	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: you promised your power and ministry that in your time, subcontractors would be recruited. When will you fulfill your promise? Two: The Ministry of National Education is said to be short 150,000 teachers. We have nearly 400,000 young teachers waiting for the appointment. It is said that these appointments were not made because you did not give new staff as the Treasury Department. When are you going to give me the new teaching staff from your ministry? My third question to the Minister of Justice: Do you intend to make a transaction on the judge who tried to defend secularism, who decided to arrest our young people at the coffee shop? The secularism is the common denominator of our country, guaranteed by the Constitution; secularism is freedom, it cannot be arrested. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0024par0114	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0025par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. If defending the Constitution is considered a crime by the AKP government, on what grounds did you arrest young people who advocate secularism? If it is a crime to defend the unchangeable clauses of the Constitution, then is it not the President, the Prime Minister, the AKP government and all lawmakers who are sworn in under the Constitution committed crimes? Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, our Mersin MP, Professor Dr. Aytuğ Atcı, said he was protesting the state of emergency, that he would not shave his beard during his extraordinary condition. The Congressman's beard almost reached his chest. I demand that the extraordinary state be terminated so that our Congressman can shave his beard as soon as possible. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0026par0121	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0027par0123	Mr. President, local radios, music copyrights, mandatory advertising spots and RTÜK shares in Turkey are having a difficult time. Radios, which are low enough to say no advertising revenues, have to pay the RTÜK share by 1.5 per cent, as well as a separate copyright to the professional units, such as MESAM, MESAM, MESIM, Ü-YAP and MSG. It must be considered as a reward for the efforts of professional troops to receive an indirect offer from radio broadcasts. However, occupational units must unite and reduce royalties from local radios to small sums, and instead of royalties, they must demand a fee of 1 or 2 percent of radio advertising revenues, rather than royalties. The relevant ministries must pay publishers from public spots published on local radio and television but not necessarily, and local radio on the legal ground for cultural promotions of provinces and provinces through the governorates channel.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0026par0125	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0028par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. The principle of secularism is the most fundamental principle of our democracy and our Constitution. During the 14 years of AKP rule, secularism has been constantly brought underfoot, destroyed, every region in the community has been religiousised and the state staffs have been pursued by congregations to the end. The coup d'état of July 15 is an extension and a consequence. Instead of fighting them, the AKP has taken into custody representatives of the public house, who only want secularism and advocate the Constitution, who advocate social peace, and sought democracy in Turkey, wanted secularism, and sought freedom. The AKP must immediately give up this method...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0026par0130	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0029par0132	The Social Security Agency has raised the share of examination participation by between 20 per cent and 60 per cent in public health care institutions; 25 per cent in private health care institutions. Annual inflation is 8.53 per cent, minimum wage increase of 8 per cent, increase of 3 per cent to civil servants pensions, social insurance and increase of 4.73 per cent to BUG-KUR pensioners. On what grounds were these exorbitant increases in the participation of our citizens when they took advantage of their health care services? Increases above annual inflation are not true. Either these raises should be taken back or the raises given to workers and civil servants should be increased by these increases. In addition, the government has claimed that two of our soldiers have been burned by the barbarian ISIS for thirteen days. Two of our soldiers...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0026par0135	Mr. Imran Sword...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0030par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going through a rough patch. We're in a deep valley, under attack. The life of this world is like the passing of a gate. Let's hug and have each other. Let's not forget, if we turn against each other, our country falls. The only way to stop the bad is to be better and to help each other. Let us love the people, and let us be the shade of the people in the sun, and let us be the robe of the cold, and let us be the bread of the famine. Let us share in the suffering and joy of the people, and share his concern. Let's not let anyone down. Let's not pretend things aren't happening when they're happening. We've been through a lot, and we haven't been easy. We began to dream of better days when they left us covered in blood. Blood breaks the dream, they act on its principle.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0031par0141	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0032par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, there was a storm and then a flood in my constituency, Mersin. Unfortunately, there were casualties of life and property in this disaster. From the storm, Anamur and Grizzly producers suffered a lot of damage. After the flood, I studied the extent of the disaster in Kazanlı and Adanaluoğlu areas of the Mediterranean region, after the destruction of the flood, after the destruction of the flood, at Ears, Special Gardens, Kelahmet, Ancestors, and Yeşiltepe. The landscape is too bad to describe. The head of the ear village just called me, said the water level is still rising, and said that additional measures must be taken urgently. There has been major damage to greenhouse areas in Anamur, Bozyaz, Tarsus, and Mediterranean neighbourhoods. The farmer's debts must be completely expunged and the manufacturers of the Disaster Support Fund must be supported immediately.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0031par0146	Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0033par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country is on the verge of polarization, as big as its capillaries. It is unacceptable for social media to view secularism as a crime if they have not done a single legal procedure regarding hate crimes that have reached the extent of Christmas celebrations. It would be Turkey's disaster to see the Istanbul massacre as an act that tries to provoke secular factions. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said that secularism has made real religiousism flourish, as it never is. That's why secularism is the basic tuition of this country, the sum of the values that make us who we are and keep us together. I'd like to remind you that if you eliminate the secular state, you eliminate rights, law, justice, freedom. If you wear down the secular state, you will eliminate the conditions for peaceful coexistence. We will never, ever allow the secular values of our republic to be eliminated. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0034par0154	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0035par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, we regret to see a serious reckoning of our republic, our founding values, our unresolved principles. Sadly, the arrest of secularists has yet to be carried out by those who rejoice in the attack on Reina. And as an extension of that, a book reading competition was held by the EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN Union in the province of Kütahya. Sadly, in this competition, the Land Lost on the Table was entered into a book reading contest called What Happened in Lausanne. From here, I'm asking the Minister of National Education: what are the books determined by this reading contest, and what is the criteria for that?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0036par0161	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0037par0163	Mr. President, TÜİK has announced inflation as of December 2016: TÜFE rate 8.53. However, there have been so many increases in 2016 that inflation in the 40 most consumed food products is between 22 per cent and 25 per cent. And when you look at it, it's 58 percent nouse, 30 percent egg, 19 percent chicken, and I don't understand how inflation is 8.53? I'm curious about this method of calculation; anyone who knows, please tell us. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0036par0165	Mr. Tarhan... Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0038par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Citizens who owe the Social Security Agency a premium as part of restructuring are taking advantage of that right. In this regard, the demands of citizens who work for themselves in agriculture, with new agricultural insurance, are not met, their debts are not structured. Many of our citizens' petitions are not accepted by the Social Security Agency. I'd like to ask the government: under Act 6736, do agricultural insurance people benefit from restructuring? Does the Social Security Agency accept the petitions for the restructuring of our agricultural-insuranced citizens? How many citizens do we have in Balıkesir, one of our major cities in agriculture and livestock? What's the number of people who owe bonuses? Has anyone ever filed a request for configuration? We know that because of the economic crisis, the government is preparing a project similar to unemployment insurance. In this context, it's the kind of man who earns his living with agriculture and livestock.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0036par0171	Mr. Toğrul... Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0039par0174	I'm so sorry about my voice. The construction of the Curibel Tunnel, located on the road route of Shebinkarahisar connecting Giresun to the Inner Anatolia. The deadline is uncertain, but hopefully this year will be over and we'll have the service we've been longing for for 50 years. However, this project must be retested once again because connecting only Giresun and Shebinkarahisar will not be enough by tunnel. To make the tunnel more attractive and contribute to the country's economy, it is necessary to ensure that all the provinces of Anatolia, which extend to the Mediterranean, are connected by trade means with the Black Sea. Therefore, the Giresun-Dereli-Sebin Karahisar connection should be made as a high-standard trade route, and there is no work being launched even though it is ready to build the Pinars tunnel crossing on the same route. The Mukhtars have expressed the reaction of the locals, even complaining about your government with signed petitions to the President. Why doesn't the track start? We're wondering why. I'm waiting for Mr. Minister of Transport to check in with me. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0040par0177	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0041par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. While the International Labor Force was being discussed, the current Interior Minister was then Minister, and we said that when people from nearby ISIS came to Turkey, we said that they should have an investigation from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior, especially the good ones. We told them they shouldn't be allowed to have a very comfortable session and work permit. But as we saw two days ago, we had a very bad incident in Istanbul. So what we said yesterday happened today. The people who were close to ISIS were accepted into this country without being investigated; they settled in the province, and went about in Istanbul, and came to İzmir. Now we're wondering, how many other ISISites are there? Will these be reconsidered and cancel their residence permits and work permits? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0042par0183	Mr. Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0043par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Republican People's Party MP Erkan Aydın has been obliged to make a statement on the statement. They have stated that my constituency, Tripoli, is being sued for defamation of the president's office in the District of Karaşısı district of Foundationkebir, and they have made this subject a subject of criticism. However, no one, regardless of their duties and authorities, can have special protection in the face of punishment, and no one's office gives the President the right to insult. This incident occurred before July 15th and a lawsuit was filed by the prosecution. However, on July 15th, the case was dismissed due to Mr. President's pardon for defamation of the Yenikapi spirit, which is not current or new. It's been necessary to explain this matter in order for it to go into the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0044par0189	Mr. Doğan Türkmen... Yes, one minute of conversation is over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0045par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm bringing up some of my constituency issues today. Now, the city of Yörükler, Samsun Province, is destroying the municipality of Yörükler. I'd like to make a point of that. Now, for a hundred and five years there were people living in the village -- it was called "Kököy"; it is now called "mahalle" because it is a city. And there are summer homes built right next to this village. And the government took all kinds of electricity, water, roads, phones, everything. There are 180 houses there. Now, some of these houses are summer homes, but there are 12 months of residents, including three families of martyrs. Actually, there's been a mistake here in the past, there's been a misdemeanor in the administration. Twenty-five years ago, there was a report of illegal construction on the premises on the advice of the executives at the time. Actually, to me, it's a transaction error, and that's actually how the judge sees it. In those days, these people were taken from money, no problem, but years later, the City Hall now wants to tear down buildings here. And the people who live here are actually, you know, people who, like all Black Sea people, have been civil servants in their time, who belong to their state, to their nation. They can't get ahead of the gendarme who came for destruction there, and they can't even do that. In some places, our people, for example, are standing in front of you, in the way. Soldier, the Carabinieri, an aunt, don't come in here. Look, we'll have to push you. A man who cries and cries at them. This is where Metropolitan City City is seriously victimizing them. Now, the subject, of course, is going to trial, but the courts in Turkey are a disgrace, so I think that's the exact expression. Now, there goes, for example, citizen, the decision to stop the execution, the lawyers of the Metropolitan Municipality go, they press, they change the verdict in the evening. I've got a lot of samples in my file about them.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0046par0201	I'll turn on your microphone, complete it, Master.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0045par0202	Another judge, for example, decides to take precautions, they go back immediately, he's being waived. There's this ridiculous process going on right here. The municipality of May 19 answers in writing and says to the person sitting there, "I'm going to plan protection here. The city of Metropolitan City is leaving, and it's preventing that. So the job's being resolved, but there's no law, and the administration's acting weird. Now the houses are falling apart. As of January 3rd, two more home invasions have been carried out. The strange thing is, the decision of the State, the State's Office, the State's Office, is just saying that right now, Mr. President, there is a decision to be made, a decision to be made by the State, a decision to be made. There's also a decision to be made in the Court of Reputation. At least if these decisions will allow this to be destroyed, let it be destroyed, but without these decisions, let these destructions be stopped. That's what the citizen and we demand from the city hall. Please don't let the people of Asia Minor here -- when there's so much trouble in the country, when there's so much confusion -- suffer these sacrifices to their country, to their nation, to their nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0047par0205	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Timberboy, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0048par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Our co-Chairs, who are currently held in prison, have applied to the Constitutional Court in connection with the audio and video recording of talks with the attorneys of Figen Yüksekdağ and Denizlahattin Demirtaş, who have submitted documents submitted by our co-Chairs and lawyers in exchange for documents submitted to them, censoring documents and processing documents and reviewing them. Once again, we offer these ongoing irregularities to the attention and knowledge of the General Assembly and our people. Three days after the terrible attack in Istanbul on New Year's Eve, the assailant was still not caught. We, ISIS, will never accept the fact that this attacker has not been caught and that those responsible for this terrible event remain in office. Those who can't catch the attackers, today, members of the public homes calling for the defence of secularism, Ayşegül Basaş and Hamit Çaykaya, arrest sensitive people who use their fictitious freedoms. At this moment, our co-chairs and executives in Istanbul, which have been in unlawful custody for 24 days now, will be taken to the Çağalan Courthouse and to the Grandçekmece Courthouse. We demand that these people, who have been guilty of nothing but fighting for human rights for years, be released immediately.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0049par0214	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Please complete.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0048par0215	At the same time, we believe that all of these operations against us were to be brought in, in fact, to prevent and eliminate the HDP opposition in a process called the Constitutional Proposal, which would make a single system more permanent. That's why all these detentions are illegal practices. On January 2nd, after the Council of Ministers, government spokesman Numanürmiş had declared that there was no discussion on the agenda of the extension of the State of Emergency. However, yesterday's State of Emergency said that the decision of the Council of Ministers was made on 3 January with the recommendation of the MGK, but on 3 January the MGK was not assembled. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, my last sentence.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0050par0219	Here you go, I'll open it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0048par0220	The last MGK meeting was on December 30th. So, either the Council of Ministers has started making the decisions of the MGK, or there's a serious forgery in the document. Today, we wanted to express that we had a scandal both politically and socially and administratively in terms of history. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0050par0222	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0051par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Republic of Turkey is a republic founded on the secularism axis as the most important principle. The secularism principle that Mustafa Kemal and his friends expressed in the establishment of the Republic of Turkey is Turkey's cement, and the duty of the republic's prosecutors is to prevent and fight the attacks against secularism. On the name of the Republic's prosecutor, the person or judges who will be the prosecutor of the republic need to be very thorough and sensitive about the principle of secularism. However, the arrest of young people in the form of secularism was a scandal in Istanbul the other day. There was not a word from the Attorney General, the government. What are they doing about this judge and the prosecutor? We invite HSYK to join us on the mission. I mean, there's no way we can accept that the judges and prosecutors who are in charge of protecting the republic are making an arrest warrant to protect the republic. In this regard, we would like to ask the ruling party, the Minister of Justice, if there's any other reason that we don't know about, to speak to the public. Because such a painting is not an acceptable painting, it is not an acceptable painting; it is a complete failure, it is a ignorance, and it is a betrayal. In this regard, the process for these judges and prosecutors must be initiated immediately. If there are other reasons that the public will understand and that we don't, we demand them to use our right to know and our right to know. But about these judges and prosecutors, we also invite the HSYK. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0052par0229	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0232	Mr. President, thank you. We're an 80 million-dollar country, there's gonna be secular, there's gonna be conservative, there's gonna be Democrats, there's gonna be nationalists, there's gonna be Marxists. We're not a tribe. People will, of course, discuss their ideas in a civilized way in the direction of their worldviews, but they won't be trolls, trolls, fashion statements. Trollism, unfortunately, does not belong to any political line, but every line has a troll.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0054par0235	There's mostly white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0055par0236	There's only one white troll.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0237	Each people has its own trolls, their own ugly tongue, who want to impose blame on others in anger and anger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0055par0238	Only white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0239	Those of you who know sociology know that this isn't based on political lines.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0055par0240	Only white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0241	Trollism is a character, and this character is available in all segments. It's not ideas we should be against, it's trolling. So I'm calling the prosecutors here, and I'm calling them as a member of the legislature: brother, whoever trolls speak for whomever they speak, please do what the law requires of those trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0055par0242	Don't feed the white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0243	Don't encourage doing it, give public information about who you're doing what you're doing about who you're doing so that unnecessary speculation can be avoided.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0055par0244	Then don't feed the white trolls, Mr. President, there are white trolls on the payroll.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0245	As for secularism, secularism in the sense of freedom of religion and conscience is the result of modernity, urbanism, development. In cities, people don't get involved in each other's lifestyles, and there's no way they can get involved, so if we look at the historical course of secularism, we'll see that. The first secular communes emerged in cities in the 13th and 14th century.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0056par0246	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Bostanci, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0053par0247	The point is that we, of course, have had an unfortunate discussion of secularism in our history, and in sociology, the hard point of culture becomes what we call it. I don't think that this attitude, which I might call militant, in a militant language, will contribute to neither secularism nor freedom of religion and conscience, nor to the atmosphere of freedom, which is the result of urbanization and modernization in this sense. It is our duty to raise and praise the Republic, but it is also the duty of those who take it upon themselves to use a careful language that considers the color and diversity of the republic. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0057par0250	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Scientific studies indicate that an adult person must consume 70 grams of protein daily and 40 percent of it must be made up of animal-rooted proteins. The animal industry is an important sector because of the supply of people's vital needs and the economic value they create. In Turkey, the consumption level of animal products is low compared to developed countries. The steady and balanced diet of our growing population is also important to our country in terms of its economic value. It is known that our country has a rich potential for agriculture and animalism, but its potential has not been evaluated enough. Discussions have shown that both producers and consumers are not happy with their animal policy and their expectations are not met. Milk and meat prices have been among the most popular debates in recent years. According to animal production statistics published by TÜİK on 17 September 2015, the number of cattle in our country was 14 million 700,000 head. The total number of small animals has been 44 million,673 thousand heads. The animal industry is supported by various tools to improve animalism, to ensure that producers earn better income, while consumers consume sufficient animal products at a more affordable price. Over the years, the growth of animal support has been higher than the increase in total agricultural support, but support has not yet served the desired outcome. The livestock industry has not developed the desired development. As in the entire agricultural sector, high-level incarnation prices are increasing production costs, reducing profitability. Due to import policies in the sector, there are large amounts of animal and meat entering our country. In fact, information about animal health and the future of the sector is also found in media-release organs that threaten the future of animal health and animal access. Although imports temporarily reduce prices, prices tend to rise again after a while. Continuous import expectations make producers nervous, prevents them from making long-term investment decisions. Our country does not have long-term goals and policies for the animal industry. Turkey is an importer of genetic material, live cattle and small animals, main input materials and red meat. Co-operatives and producers have not been able to reach the level of service in developed countries with autonomy, institutional capacity and human resources. Farmer organisations are so low that their share in the marketing and processing of products and their bargaining powers are so low that they cannot be effective in price creation. The credibility of animal statistics, which will enable the detection of the current situation, is also discussed. In economic and social terms, we propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98, TBM Institution, and 105, in order to identify the problems that are important to our country and to develop proposals for the solution to these problems. [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Ankara]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Sivas]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Artvin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The OSBs are the backbone of our country's economy and employment. It contributes to social and cultural development as much as economic development. Organised industrial zones (OSB) structure industry in appropriate areas to prevent distorted industrialisation and environmental problems, providing rational use of resources; information creates infrastructure for efficient use of IT technologies, allowing industrial species to be established and developed in a specific plan. OSBs, which contribute substantially to the country's economy and employment, also play an important role in resolving intergalactic instability. There are 297 organised industrial areas in our country, 213 are in operation and others are in the process of publicisation. As of 2015, nearly 1,530,000 people are employed in the OSB. With the allocation of empty parcels in the OSBs and the start of production, this number is expected to reach 2,200,000 people -- a very important figure in employment. Important steps are being taken to become an industrial city in our capital city. There are 11 organised industrial districts registered in Ankara, including five of which have been completed. There are serious problems in both our industrial regions and infrastructure. Despite protocols with the relevant ministry and Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, these problems are still under way. Resolving OSB's problems, particularly transport and treatment, in Ankara, will increase production, making serious contributions to the country and the region's economy. In order to determine the problems of OSBs in Ankara, to determine the measures to be taken for the resolution, we propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] 4) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Artvin]] Important steps are being taken to become an industrial city in our capital city. There are 11 organised industrial zones registered in Ankara, with five of which have been completed. Ankara Industry Room 1st OSB, Ivedik OSB, Ostim OSB, Polatlı OSB and Ankara Industry Room 2 and 3 OSB. All OSBs, except Ostim and Ivedik, are very low. There are OSBs that continue to build. In this case, allowing industrial construction in other parts of the city leads to the construction of industry in agricultural areas and within the city. Metropolitan and district municipalities must co-ordinate industrial planning with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology; otherwise, today's disaster at Ergene's basin will occur in Ankara. No OSB (OSB) in Ankara already has enough decontamination of its own. No progress has been made in the common decontamination. Each OSB is setting up its own purification, producing and operating costs are increasing, bringing an additional load to the regional industrialist. Industry is a private purging industry. Once we've contaminated our soil and water, there's no going back. This problem must be resolved by noticing the alarm bells ringing for Ankara as soon as possible. Most of the OSBs also have problems with transportation. The transport of the OSBs is provided either by village or cadastro roads. In its well-being, it is expected to be produced at around 250, or more than 1,200. There are 25,000 housing slums in the area of prevention. The roads of the housing area have not been built. The area has no sewers, no grid water. The biggest problem with employees here is transportation, and that problem will be solved if this area opens up. Despite these developments, there are still no links in the area. The drinking and using water has not been taken away. Sewers and wastewater treatment facilities have not been built. On 28/9/2012, a protocol was signed between the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and the OSBs within the major city limits, and the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality stated that it would provide free services such as as as asphalt, infrastructure, sidewalks, wooding and firehouses to the OSO. The Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has so far no significant service given except asphalt by OSB (OSTIM OSB) and the fire department of the Permanent Organised Industrial Areas basin. Ankara should also be the engine of our country in the industry. It should set an example for both our country and our region, especially in technology-producing business. Resolving the OSB's infrastructure problems in Ankara is important for Ankara's future. Studies in this direction will both attract investors to this area, boost production and contribute substantially to employment. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The unsolved murders have caused deep trauma to the citizens. In particular, the assassinations or unsolved killings of prominent leaders, journalists, writers, rights and freedom advocates have not been revealed and the perpetrators of these murders have been protected. Of Sebahattin Ali, Moses Anter, Uður Mumcu, Hrant Dink, and the last murder of Tahir Elçi, many of the people who were taken from us have been punished without punishment. In order to be subject to a thorough investigation into all aspects of the unsolved killings and to identify those responsible behind the murders, we respectfully offer and provide the basis for the opening of Parliament investigation under Article 98th, Article 104th and 105th of the Constitution. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] During the election rally in Van ahead of the November 1st elections, the prime minister noted the unsolved murders of the 1990s, saying, "They know that if the EC Party is removed from power, terrorist gangs will move around, White Toros will roam." That's what he said. The Prime Minister's statement, "White Toros," is a model of automobiles in the 1990s where countless citizens were carried out and taken to their deaths and identified with unsolved murders. The biggest unsolved massacre of the AKP era took place in Roboski. The term "unknown" is not only the unsub's unknown murders, but also his cover-up. In this regard, the Roboski massacre was left as an unsolved massacre because the perpetrators were not tried. Not as intense and systematic as the 1990s, but in the 2000s, there have been unsolved murders, especially a rapid increase in the last year. Turkey's Human Rights Foundation reported that during the AKP administrations, the "White Toros" continued its operation. There have been 227 new unsolved murders during the AKP administrations. Over the years, the number of unsolved murders is as follows: 2015 (as of October) 19; 2014, 47; 2013, 8; 2012, 16; 2011, 15; 2010, 9; 2009, 18; 2008, 30; 2007, 2; 2006, 21; 2005, 4; 2004, 8; 2003, 16; 2002, 8. The original responsible for the bombings, which killed 138 people in 2015, were not discovered, so these massacres were also wanted to be left unsolved. Thousands of people lost in custody in the 1990s, who were carted out of their homes and never heard from again, are in the collective memory of the pain left to us at that time. The mothers of Saturday, searching for the bones of their children who had been murdered in the unknown, were living witnesses of that time, even the bones of their children. The unofficial execution squads, which have recently been re-opened in the JITEM and law enforcement force, are associated with the killings at that time. The fact that former Special Ops officer Ayhan Çarkin stated that he had his own fingers in the murder of Yusuf Ekcin. And pointed to some politicians at the time gives us a clue about the construction. Our country, which began every day in the 90s with news of murder, will not be able to build social peace without a reckoning with the past. Social peace is possible by association with pain and joy. The Berfo Mothers who want his child's bones will die before they can even get to his son's grave, and the hope of social peace will become less and less. Another thing about unsolved murders is the systematic inertial state of control mechanisms. There have been judges and prosecutors who wanted to break it, but they've been subjected to exile. A lot of evidence that points to public officials being involved in dirty work has shown itself in recent investigations. On the other hand, during months of curfews that began on 16 August 2015, several unsolved murders were committed, funerals left in the middle of the street, and babies were targeted by bullets. On November 28, 2015, Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi was shot in the head and killed during a press statement in response to the shooting of 4-foot Minare. Attempts to black out evidence after the murder of the envoy and the process reveal that there is no difference between political murders committed in the 1990s and whether the perpetrators were protected or protected again. The state is directly responsible for any murder committed within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, death, right of life violation. It is one of the top priorities of the state to ensure the safety of persons, preventing the perpetrators of certain or unknown murders, but unfortunately, the perpetrators are not allowed to prevent the random killings, and the perpetrators are systematically protected. All cases filed against the unsolved murders of the 1990s have been transferred and the majority of those responsible have been acquitted. None of the unsolved murders committed during the AKP period have been illuminated, the responsible have not been accounted for. Unsubstantiated murders are subject to a thorough investigation. It is imperative that a parliamentary investigation be opened in order to investigate this incident and identify the people responsible for the murders. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll have the proposal read and processed and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday/1/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On January 4, 2017, several programmes, such as the KARS MP Mr. Ayhan Bilgen and his friends, were introduced in a way that was not in accordance with the tender procedures given by Mr. Ayhan Bilgen and his colleagues, to be used in 3444 rows, and to be used at the Ministry of Health in 1999. It has been suggested that the Parliament's motion to investigate and identify those responsible for the health corruption of the ministry and the third persons be taken ahead of other motions to submit to the information of the General Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, which has been issued to the Grand National Assembly, read in the presentations on Wednesday 4/1/2017 and meet in the same date. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to the members of parliament. The first speaker in his favour is Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0058par0444	Mr. President, first of all, about the research commission, of course, about a very clear claim that we've just presented to the Speaker of Parliament, as stated in a brief summary, we're going to discuss a very specific agenda regarding a very serious corruption charge in the Ministry of Health, but I'm assuming that the Health Commission is not aware of the agenda, that they haven't shared it, but I was hoping that if at least someone who knows the subject would be able to make a hearing. When we stand here, I leave the nation, the bearers of the nation's tribute, where their money is spent, and how it's spent on themselves, to the public, if they don't care what that patriotism, that nationalism means. Dear friends, in all the polls, there are clear indications that one of the areas where this government is most successful is health, so let's hand over the rights first. So how successful do you find Syria policy? When you ask the AKP voters, let alone the voters of other parties, or how successful do you find education policy? There's a perception that it's too good to compare to the numbers that come out. So, we're going to talk here about a claim about the most successful area of government, the most powerful area, and we're going to evaluate it here, dear friends, and we're going to present it to the public. Of course, we have a very serious file, and I can't even sum it up in ten minutes. There's correspondence from the Ministry of Health, there's statements to the courts, there's a very serious statement from the Minister; it's a very serious case, but if we don't come up with the commission's decision, I mean, if we're going to talk about the routine that we know here, and we're going to choose to break up, we're going to insist that another parliamentary control system, and the gene's going to be re-opened on the same issue, because there's a very serious bet that there's a very serious number and overlayed. Dear friends, of course, the Ministry of Health's general policy needs to be evaluated. We have information that the current minister of the public-private development project is not very positive, at least not positive during his first ministry, as a physician, he does not find it right, but another, more effective will prefers this process and plans the establishment of these hospitals. Of course, it's interesting there, and it's very remarkable, and the size that concerns all of our people -- maybe our medics have more details, but for example, the bridge, when you build a tunnel, you guarantee the number of patients in health, like 70 percent of the commitments. And that's actually the Department of Health, the preventive medicine part, is something else, but it seems like a commitment that society will get sick and hospitals and hospital businesses will be financially satisfied. In fact, it's a very clear picture of how health is made into a commercial meta of human health. Sometimes they think it's like running a health clinic, unionists, good friends, casinos. I know the hospital and the casino are absurd, but no matter who appears to be winning at the casino, the casino owner wins anyway, and in this approach, patients, taxpayers, not citizens, the business managers are making sense of winning. There has been a segregation between hospitals recently, such as, for example, in Bilkent, for higher-income owners, there has been plans for hospital services for smaller incomes in Etlik. Dear friends, again, of course, we've brought up some very serious allegations in our other questions, and we haven't received any answers. Here we are, wondering where, or how many of the graduates of a university, which was closed down after July 15th, were now employed, or how many of them were removed from their jobs. The Minister of Health will probably answer that in the coming days. Because so far, I've only been able to answer the questions I've asked the Ministry of Health, dear friends, by being sent to my room with brochures from the Ministry of Health. I mean, there are so many beds in Turkey, so many patients. We get these answers to our questions. Now, let's get to the bottom of this, guys. In fact, at the very end of the 90s, right before this government, in the early 2000s, the head of the Health Ministry's Information Agency is starting an association, and he's starting a company, dear friends. The Association is the Ministry of Health Information Association; the Health Ministry's Economic Information Systems Tourism and Health Management Limited Company. The address is both of the Health Department's rooms. So, as you know, the office of the Ministry of Health in Health on Health Street shows the taxpayer's office, and the head of the Agency is starting a company. The head of the agency is starting an association with the staff there. So let's interpret this part of it as freedom to organize, civil society love, but what's even worse, is that this association and this company are taking the job of building patient tracking computer programs in hospitals, and the Undersecretary wants them to wire $500 to this company's bank account in writing 16/6/2000 days and 121. There's writing in this file. Of course, when you add it up, there's different numbers because it's the use of a continuous program or something, but more interestingly, the Ministry of Health is given 40m euros to provide these kinds of programs from the European Union, such upgrades and hospitals with more modern services. The part where these 40 million euros are used is another conundrum, so will Congress be able to find out about this, and will Congress be able to see the role of control in that sense on behalf of the public? It's part of the job. Dear friends, the second side: this company -- this company founded by ministry personnel -- is making deals with experts at the Aegean University, and it's getting this program to print, and it's doing it with a lot of serious numbers, and it's offering it as a service despite the fact that it's an unfair competition, like a commercial firm you know. Dear friends, some time later the allegations that this is not legally possible, that the Ministry staff can't start a company, that the Ministry of Health can't give their services to hospitals, that the health ministry can't, that this corruption claim comes out, are, very interestingly, to the third people, but interestingly, on the day of the revolution, a number is being spoken and a number is being paid. I don't know about a charity system like this, but on the same day, valuable friends from the company's bank account are unloading money a few hours before the notary sale. Can you imagine? So a bureaucrat builds a company first, and then, when the corruption charges come out, he sells the company, and the day he sells it, he emptys it. Of course, the guy who bought the company thinks he's buying a company that works with a public institution, and he's starting to follow up on the injustice he's been through. My time is too short... after a while, the Ministry of Health says: "We had no business with this organization, with the company, with the writing in the middle -- this program was given to us by a pharmaceutical company in Germany. Now, if you have a sense of responsibility for patient rights, if you have a sense of home, people, you also need to be disturbed by the fact that such detailed information about patients is run by the promotion of a German pharmaceutical company. But it's interesting, and then the correspondence goes on, and the owner asks Germany, and he gets to the firm, and there's this thing called copyright, and that's what it says in my company. Then the company, the big pharmaceutical company in Germany -- I don't want to give its name here -- says: "No, it's not a grant -- because the Ministry of Health is directing them to respond like this" -- and it's a sale. Then this check turns out to be a bribe. Dear friends, the story goes on and on and on and on and on and on in 1999. The Minister of Health prefers to decide not to investigate the matter, today's Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. There are no investigations, only warnings, reprimands are being dropped, lawsuits are being filed against the owners of the company due to the Ministry's hostility towards the third party. Now, if you think this matter is worth investigating, commissioning, I'm referring to your consciences, your sensitivity to the right to an orphan, and I salute everyone.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0059par0456	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0060par0460	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for Health. Although our country is dealing with major issues, such as security, it is also a matter for the Turkish nation and administrators to take care of. Education and health as well as safety should always be in our care. I also wish, as an instructor and as a medic, that the High Assembly and the Government would consider what I'm about to say. Our job as paramedics is human life. The health community is often remembered in terms of life and death, not in normal times. Health policies, such as education and defence, are planned and programmed decades ago; in fact, it is desirable because you can only achieve positive improvements in health care in four or five years. Again, you will see the negative consequences of your health policies in the middle and long term. Therefore, when it comes to health care, it is best to listen to all the shareholders and take the best steps you can take for health policy. I've seen it in a foreign article, I'm sure it's good. He offers international organizations, he knows. He's worked as an investigator for three years at the World Bank. He knows better. If you try to expose the health atmosphere of our country as well as deepening the current problems, you'll cause trouble to our country. Health can't be a test board. Health is never a place for world interests to be shared. Human life is sacred. It is impossible for a man to find peace of mind when he sees his life as a money bale and therefore stops health care for those who have no money. You don't have any kind of calculations, sir. You have this much work in your family, that's the amount of per capita income you have, so if you don't put in this many health premiums, what will I diagnose you for? If you say, "What will I cure you?" You'll have to deal with the covenant of these people sooner or later. The Turkish nation is now paying taxes on everything except for its breath; it is not enough; it is not enough; it pays tuition; it pays a fee for the bridge and the road to which it should be taxed. He's been paying medical insurance for years, but he's been paying for the examination and treatment over and over again. There used to be fountains in the streets, not even a fountain running through our streets today. There's a fountain, and it's treated like an ornament in the city squares. O Justice and Development Party (AKP)! Look at the Ottoman rulers with whom you have kept your mouth shut, and see what they have done for the real needs of the citizen. They offered free water to the citizens, a basic need to serve. Even our young republic, despite all its absence, has continued to serve the citizens for free. We're looking at today, all the basics the citizen needs are the price of fire. Our brothers, our citizens can't even cross the street of a public institution. Water, electricity, natural gas, diesel, citizens in every step of the way, you put the economy in a cage today, and unfortunately you weaken the bonds of the Turkish community, just like the isolation you create in foreign policy. Look, our country is going through a rough patch. What would happen if there were issues such as safety, health and education and financial perspective and financial criteria against the citizen? Let's put together the health policy of the next ten, twenty, even fifty years in this House. Come on, let's get the Health Commission to work. For example, let's discuss the lack of staff of state hospitals in the Plan and Budget Commission, not in the Property Fund Act, but in a future commission, the Health Commission. We are prepared to discuss all of our constructive suggestions. We may have very corrosive criticism, but you are the government, and if you want to build a good future for the Turkish nation, you have to face all the criticism and listen to what the Turkish people have chosen to do in order to find the right path. Every minute you don't listen to us, you lose the opportunity to be audited. I'm afraid you're being hurt by someone who knows that every time you don't listen to us, you're not being audited. As long as you don't listen to us, our citizens are getting hurt because of your health policies that hurt the Turkish nation. Everybody knows there are losers and there are winners. We don't want the Turkish nation to get hurt, let him win. For example, your personnel policies: as a government that has promised to end the subcontractor, you're working up to your neck in health care. Moreover, you're playing with the dreams of hundreds of thousands of Turkish youths who have been trained under difficult circumstances. He's got the paramedics working their way through the performance system, and yet you're not making any improvements to their loss or pension rights, and yet you're not making them and you're not keeping them. You're destroying their joy in life, let alone making the human resource happy in the field of health. Other than extreme examples, health workers used to earn little, and today they make little, but health workers used to have a reputation in society. Helping people was more important than taking their money, and so the medics were satisfied with what they were doing. Patient-patient relationships were like family relationships, love and respect were high. Today, I'm afraid, none of this remains. Hospital corridors may look clean, hospital parks may be orderly, even single rooms have increased, everyone may have the right to go to any hospital, but you've destroyed hundreds of years of intimacy, love and respect. Now we're at least thinking about how to get them back. O AKP Government, how good it would be to start your free health care in these Africans, in our country, in the Republic of Turkey. Why don't you examine our citizens for free as well as the Africans who work for minimum wage? Let me also say that the great nations will certainly bring help to other nations in need, but the great nations of the great nations must also consider their own citizens. As they say in the incident, it's not ours to eat when the neighbor's hungry. However, it is a shame that the Turkish government has to pay for health care in all areas, it is a sin! After all, we hope that the government will be able to make the current climate of unity and unity transparent and accountability, along with the principles of governance, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0061par0474	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Mr. Tanal, you have a request according to Article 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0062par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on the night of the 15th of July coup, the first bomb to be dropped on Parliament is the House Garden. A tent opened there in the council yard. There's a Turkish flag on the tent, but the Turkish flag is under the snow because of the snow. The Turkish flag stands under the snow while parliamentary workers clear all the sidewalks inside the House. I just went and cleaned it up. I demand that the Turkish flag be removed from under the snow and cleared of the snow. My respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0063par0483	The AKP is asleep. Mr. Mahmut, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0064par0484	Thank you so much for letting me know, Mr. Tanal. The relevant departments of the House should have done the job. That's not acceptable. I'll give the relevant units my instructions now, and we'll get her out of there right away. Thank you. In favor of the proposal, Aytuğ Ater, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0065par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group in favour of a motion issued by the HDP Group to investigate some corruption allegations concerning the Ministry of Health. I salute the lawmakers, who have not been involved in corruption, who have not tolerated theft, who have not been thirsty in the face of immorality. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, what does this proposal mean? He says: One: there are allegations of corruption within the Ministry of Health, strong claims. Two: Some bureaucrats are claimed to be rich and named after them. Three: during the AKP period, these corruptions are being continued with all its violence. After this stage, without further information, a commission must be set up immediately and these allegations must be investigated. Why should this commission be set up? AKP's three most important promises: One: I will fight the poor. Two: I will fight the law. Three: I will fight corruption. A party that promises so much must, of course, establish this commission immediately. Does the AKP want this commission set up? I don't think so. I hope they mislead me, and I hope they embarrass me, but they don't. Why wouldn't they? Because if corruption starts being investigated by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the rest will come as a sock rip, one domino effect gives birth to another, and it leads to number one. Can the AKP afford it? Well, he can't. I wish he could. For example, if this commission were to be set up and let's say the allegations of corruption were to be concrete and some people were to be held accountable. Do these people confess to the wrongs done in city hospitals? If they do, who's gonna get hurt? Do those who are hurt talk about political extensions? Well, if they do, who's gonna be finished? What do some people who are cornered by the establishment of this commission say about corruption, theft, immorality? If they tell you, who's gonna get the hang of this? I wonder, if this investigation is done, if this commission is set up, if some of the people who have been pulled, explain how the media, the fellow businessmen, the fellow academics, and how the Ponzi scheme works, who would be devastated? Because of these concerns, number one will give instructions, and soon AKP MPs will raise their hands saying, "There is no need to investigate corruption claims." Now I count the AKP people in the hall: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 people. 21 out of 317 people are here, one is a minister, one is a speaker, and not even the vice president of the group is listening. When it's time for the vote, the doors will be opened, the AKP MPs will come running in. They will raise their hand saying, "There's no need, there's no need." (HPP clapping in rows) In fact, when we raise our hand, some of them are going to say, "Is that something, or what have we not done? This motion is nothing compared to them. Well, let's say Congress refuses to set up this research commission. Do you think the Minister of Health would feel a little bit guilty about all this? I don't think so. Why not? Because he doesn't want to go through with it. When the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister of the period ask the public to vote, put your birth certificate in your pocket, go to any hospital you want. When you say, "It's a big lie." We said, "It's a big lie." We said, "If only it wasn't a lie." So, the Minister of Health can't face it. Look, the Prime Minister of this era, the President and the Minister of Health of the era, decided in 2008 that 30 per cent of the costs of treatment would come out of the pockets of a citizen. In 2009, just a year later, they raised the 30 percent to 70 percent. In 2012, it was not enough, they raised it to 90 percent. Do you know what they did in 2013? They've moved it up to 200 percent, and fear God! Now, what face do you have to go through with corruption? You just gave me a 60 percent increase in contributions yesterday, just yesterday. I see inflation rate: 8.5%. How much did you raise for minimum wage? Eight percent. How much did you raise the pensioners? Three to four. So, 60 percent increase in contributions, for God's sake, would that fit into your conscience? Now you're gonna do it, and then you're gonna go investigate corruption? Dreams are dreams, that's for sure. That's why the Minister of Health won't go after this corruption, and he'll try to shut it down. I hope I'm wrong, I hope I'm ashamed. And when I look at what the Ministry of Health has spent on the public's pockets -- all of these corruptions, the money coming out of here, it's almost gone, and it's gone. Look, I'm giving you the numbers of the Ministry of Health: $35 per person in 2001, now $100 per person. So, our Ministry of Health took about 27 billion Turkish dollars out of the public's pocket in just one year, and gained $27 billion illegally. Now, 27 billion may sound dry to you, but look, about eight Osman Gazi Bridges are built with the money that people pay for health in a year, just one year. Look, about six Eurasia Tunnels are built, about three Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridges and freeways, with the money the Minister of Health withdrew from the public's pocket in a year. What do you do in the field of health? Well, I swear, we've calculated, like Erzurum State Hospital -- the minister's constituency is 1,200 beds -- that's 130. You didn't hear wrong, 130. All the numbers are from the Health Department. Now, the Ministry of Health is going to take that kind of money out of the public's pocket illegally, and then he's going to come back, go after a nickel or two? By God, HDP Group, you're imagining it, so I don't understand why you brought such a motion. We'll see about that in a minute. Do you know what these coins were taken from the citizens' pockets? It's sweat, it's good money, it's all good money, it's all good money, it's all good money. Now, as a government, you're going to take this money out of the pockets of the people, ruthlessly and unlawfully, and then you're going to say, "Wow, there are corrupters, and I'm going to answer for it." I swear, I don't know who wouldn't laugh at you, but I bet everyone would laugh. So, this money's been scraped out of a citizen's pocket, is it getting better, citizen? E, it's not healing. Who says you're not cured? The Minister of Health says that each one of my citizens goes to a doctor on average eight times a year and doesn't get better. He's paying. Every time you go to the doctor, do you get money out of your pocket? He's coming out. I mean, the Minister of Health opened his hands, God willing, let the citizens get sick, and I'll make money out of it, like praying. What kind of nonsense is that, guys? You're gonna go to the doctor eight times and you're not gonna get better. Why isn't he getting better? Because it only takes five minutes for an exam, even if the Health Department rejects the Minister of Health. Enter the system, make an appointment, you'll be given an appointment in five minutes. They're not healing for him. That's why there's something wrong with this, guys. Now, the AKP's spokesman will be out shortly, and he'll say, "Sir, we've built air ambulances, helicopter ambulances...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0066par0507	No, I'm not gonna tell them.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0065par0508	That's right, thank you, of course you did, of course you will, and it's true that I don't deny it, but if the Ministry of Health leaves its basic mission and starts the show, there's something wrong with that, my friends. Look, what does this look like? There are thousands of people hungry in our country, aren't there? I do. You gather 10 people, 20 people, 100 people, one and a half of them, you order an island kebabs, you film them, you say: "Look, hungry people eat kebabs." My brother, it's good for 10 people to eat kebabs, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for God, but it doesn't cover the fact that they're thousands of hungry." Unfortunately, that's what the Ministry of Health has brought us. So it was like this before 2001, it was like this. I'm telling the friends who said, "Oh, there was no computer, there was no computer in your era, the computer came to health, so you brought it, so we have to understand that? He didn't have a cell phone, he came through the AKP era, it became common, his cell phones, so we're going to say, well done, the AKP brought his cell phone? You need to talk some sense, you need to talk some truth. I want the AKP representative who's going to come up here to deny what I'm saying, and I wish he'd lie to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0067par0511	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Vural Kakuncu Kütahya MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0068par0515	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise against the group's proposal to set up a research commission by HDP (HDP). I salute you all. When's the date we're talking about right now? In 1999, the 57th government has a Homeland and Nationalist Movement Party as Prime Minister of the late Bhent Ecevit.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0069par0517	Until when?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0068par0518	Minister of Health of the period Osman Durmuş, Undersecretary Haluk Tokuçoglu and Suat Duranay were also head of IT at the time. Instead of the height of electricity, diesel, water money from my dear colleague, my dear teacher, my dear friend, who has come up here, it's about your time, the minister of your own party, I wish you'd told me, I wish you hadn't said a word, so let me first express it. I mean, that's what we've been waiting for you to do, but we've got a conscience, and we'll pass on what we think is right with our own conscience, and we'll tell you in your name what's relevant to you. Peoples' Democratic Party spokesman, the owner of this group's proposal, has discussed and spoken for five minutes on different issues, and in his other five-minute speech, distorting some information, and I have some answers for some information that I'm about to give you, and I'll give you an update on them. The Republican People's Party's precious spokesman is directing my speech, which is about other health policies... we talk about it, we talk about it a lot, and we talk about it a lot. Of course we'll tell you about our air ambulances. Why won't we? Of course we'll tell him we're going to all the hospitals with a birth certificate. Of course, in your time, we'll also tell you that patients who once sold their garden and went into surgery were treated by praying during this period. But I don't understand why you had a choice in favor of the group proposal from your ten-minute conversation. You've said one sentence, there's no other sentence: there are very serious allegations. But, let me tell you about it. At the time, the Ministry is setting up an association to respond to IT needs, and it's true, and the information I'm getting right now is purely from the former bureaucrats of the Ministry. At the time, he tried to make a deal with the public to establish a popular online service, but the legislation at the time says: I can't make this agreement with the public, it needs to be a private institution, it needs to be a private limited company. It is said to be established for this purpose. At that time, a company was also established, including 39 shares of the association and one share of the general manager at the time, the bureaucrat's share. This company says -- it's true -- send me $500 from all the hospitals, and I'll make a deal with you on that. I'm going to produce software and give you software. About 490 people are getting these $500 from the hospital. However, because of the public debates and some debates at this time, the Ministry has decided to give it up again...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0070par0523	Why?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0068par0524	...and he's sending these $500 back to all the hospitals he's been taking. He's doing something else: he's making a deal with nine engineers from the Ege University software company, and he's making me software, and I'll make my own software, and I'll make my own connections to it. He's running a policy called Ege University. I'm talking about the era of Osman Dursh. According to my information again, there's no record of a lot of money being paid here. About 1,500 dollars to $2,500 tops, nine engineers produce a number of software. The hospital information system software is installed at 9 hospitals for free, and there, with these hospitals, free of charge, but there is a service agreement under the name of the care service. Hospitals pay maintenance money, and this completes the work of those nine engineers. Gene, what I've been getting from bureaucrats is that there was no money being transferred from European funds to this company at the time. But then, these deals happen in economic conditions again. For example, there were deals at the Specimen Hospital with a much lower amount of money when the money at the time was taken care of for $4.5 billion. Now, but, at this time, there's a debate going on, the Ministry is inspecting itself, and it's making its own decision to liquidate and sell because of public sensibilities; it's putting ads in the paper, and the sales transactions you're talking about are happening. I don't know if the cash is empty or not, I don't know how to look at a bank account, but the Treasury has inspections at this time. There have been numerous lawsuits on this subject, and there have been investigations in cases, in the judiciary. But so far, there's no record of corruption in cases related to this, records of the Finance Ministry and accounting. What's this about us? The EC PARTI is moving to power, and at the time, Recep Akdağ is reviewing these agreements or discussions of the sensitivity of the issue, and a decision is made to nine hospitals and other hospitals: We will no longer be able to deal with this hospital information system, the maintenance agreement. The software is licensed to the Ministry, but the property and other elements of the company are passed on to that other person you're talking about, Sedat Counts. But Sedat Accounts is suing for this, and he says that the maintenance agreement is a hospital that's going on here, and you're not continuing it. I bought this for the sake of continuing, and yesterday I got hurt, and I became a victim. But all of these cases end up in favor of the Ministry of Health, which, at this point, is not entitled to a person. Now, at this time in the Ministry of Health, Recep Akdağ, when he didn't make any trade initiatives, when he didn't buy or sell any goods, when he didn't pay anyone, when you didn't have any interest in them, he was protected by it. You'll get background checks, court records, judicial records, full audits of the IRS. Let me fix something that's relevant. Again, there's a subject related to the grant of a German company, which I think I've seen before, which is a subject to a motion of yours. Here is a program not taken from the hospital information system, but from the time of chronic illness management. However, Germany itself does not bring this program; it again buys money from the institutions where nine engineers work and receives it directly from them and is donated to the Ministry. But the ministry is clearly not using this information system, it's not using software, it's not using information from here, it's not giving its information out of the country in any way, and it's not doing anything to the state's privacy. But right now, I'm here to tell you a few things that relate to some of your claims. For one thing, Mr. Minister of Public-private Affairs was not taking a positive view. It is the Minister's own project, which he himself told us about, and we believe that our country has a very important opening in relation to it. I'll open a parentheses, here, separate between hospitals. You said, well, I don't believe you're actually saying that. And as long as you don't bring me the information and the document, I'll tell you, I don't think it's appropriate. It's given to different people in Bilkent, in Etlik. What does that mean? Come, we have opened a new rehabilitation hospital in Kütahya -- leave public privacy -- to show you the property of a hospital, how we serve our citizens in Kütahya, so that you may perhaps have to take it back a little bit. I'm not here to discuss the opinion of the Republican People's Party regarding public-private cooperation, we know very well. We'll discuss it elsewhere, but there's a point, please pass it on to your representatives at Kütahya. We made a tender for the city hospital in Kütahya, but there is also a delay due to your application to the Constitutional Court in connection with the city hospital in Kütahya. Your local representatives don't say the same thing as you do, so we're against the city hospital, we're against the Kütahya city hospital. But they tell us: "You're late, you're late, you're lying. Please pass on information about the city hospital and your opposition to your representatives at Kütahya. It's a 70% hailing rate. This is a model in the public-private partnership system that needs to be financed right now. But have you ever looked at what this is based on? We're talking about 70 percent of this if he's doing 100 police clinics in the operating order of the current hospital. I mean, basically, there's information that it's not going to be filled, there's going to be extra money. And finally, I find your description of the casino and the hospital relationship inappropriate. We, the AK PARTY Group, are against this motion. We have a bag of laws to discuss right now, and then we'll discuss the Constitution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0071par0538	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0072par0539	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0071par0540	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0072par0541	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, I'd like to say that our orator is not talking about the content of the proposal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0073par0542	He spoke for five minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0072par0543	...that he was making a motion here, that he was using abbreviated amounts of money, and that he had not been able to describe this conversation to himself. We want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0074par0544	They're not teasing, they're criticism.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0075par0545	Perhaps by moving from the word "not" that he can interpret.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0546	There's an expression, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0075par0547	He used the expression "crushing," "crushing," yes... Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0551	Dear friends, I don't have an organization about the health sector, I don't know anyone, I don't have a partner, I don't have a claim around me to get a lion's share in a community, a cult or anything, but I have to say that the statements you're making here are a confession. These academics at Ege University, did they work for the public staff, or did they work for the Ministry of Health, or did I tell them because this contract was reflected earlier on this contract of the association's... well, dear friends, look, the Ministry of Health signed a worker on behalf of the Information Association.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0077par0553	The company signed, sir, not the association, the company.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0554	Guys, there's paperwork in my file, and I'm showing you a copy of the paper. Let's set up a commission, let's get these papers to the commission, it's pretty simple, right?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0078par0555	What papers, you're showing the paper.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0556	Let it be examined, let the public see that I've distorted it, and let the public know what you and I have claimed.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0557	Did it come from the paper when you paid $16 million?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0558	But there's a lot of things, dear friends, look, about you, about the German company... yeah, the chronic disease chaser... and I haven't been able to get through the details since I haven't had a long time, but... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0559	Yes, you've twisted it...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0560	But is there any other reason why Mr. Secretary doesn't need an investigation when there's so much paperwork, so much correspondence about all these allegations? I mean, I know other things, but I don't want to talk about the unregistered ones here. For example, Sedat Accounts, dear friends, at one time a very critical name of your government is now calling outside the government and offering money and saying: let's give up this case. There are other numbers here. Dear friends, there are articles from the Information Evaluation Board in this file. Now, because I can't get it all out in ten minutes, you're trying to cover it up by saying, "Strangling it all up." Let's set up a commission, dear friends...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0561	What's a 16 million lira twist?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0562	There's a check here, dear friends, a check from the German company.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0080par0563	Go to court, to court.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0564	Just tell me the $16 million.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0565	Dear friends, I don't speak imaginaryly, so if you have the courage, the commission will be set up, and you'll be in trouble...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0567	Mr. Bilgen, give me the check.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0568	...it all comes out, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0081par0569	Go to court, to court.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0570	Give me the check for $16 million, Bilgen.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0571	I'll give it to you if you set up a commission.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0079par0572	Give it to me, Bilgen. I don't have any!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0082par0573	Go to court if you have all these papers.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0076par0574	First raise your hand to a commission, vote yes, I'll give you everything, fellas.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0083par0576	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0084par0577	Did the documents come from Germany?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0085par0578	From Russia, from Russia.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0086par0579	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0580	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0086par0581	Mr. President, on your return, people were selling their garden to have surgery, and now they're giving us prayers.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0582	So what period did he mean when he said that you were coming back?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0086par0583	He said something like that. What period...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0584	He told you that?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0086par0585	He turned to us clearly and sold us the garden of the nation during your time. He teased us, and I'd like to answer for two minutes, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0088par0586	What period, sir, what period? When did he take power?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0587	You mean when the Republican People's Party was in power.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0086par0588	That's what he said.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0088par0589	He didn't say that, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0590	So that's what he pointed out to you?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0088par0591	No, sir, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0087par0592	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, what did I tell you ten minutes ago? Didn't I tell you the AKP wouldn't go for this corruption? I did, didn't I? It's just that these days, there's a lot of free lines, and no one even knows what they're talking about, so I figured they'd raise their hand, right?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0090par0596	It's about the Ottoman era.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0597	I wish it wasn't. Look, I used to...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0091par0598	We're talking about the CHP period, guys, the CHP era! We're discussing health care during the CHP.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0600	...his healthcare system was very good. He who tells a lie tells a lie. I'm a physician, I've been in this profession for thirty years. Yeah, he used to have a bad health system. Yeah, well, some people used to sell their vineyard to get surgery, right, and they'd pay for knives, that's right.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0092par0601	What a nice confession. What a nice confession from everyone's stand.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0091par0602	Who was the director general of the USSR?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0603	I'll remove the knife money when you ask the citizen to vote. You said, "But what did you do?"
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0093par0604	I still do.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0605	Every year you get 27 billion Turkish liras for knife money from the nation. Now, people don't sell their gardens, but because of you, their gardens, their gardens, their homes are impounded. I can bring you at least 10 foreclosures in one day from hospitals. For him, it's a little embarrassing.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0094par0606	Bring it on, let's see it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0607	Look, you mentioned city hospitals. Twenty-five years with city hospitals...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0095par0608	What period are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0089par0609	...you're taking it under advisement; mercy, conscience! I said something important in my speech, I said, there are allegations of corruption here. All who are brave, upright, and honest must say, "Let these claims be investigated." Let's call it a search, all of us. We don't need to talk about anything else, so you'll raise your hand here, yes, if there's a claim of corruption. You'll say, "If there is, let's say it immediately." Corruption, no matter what term it's done in the ministry. It is a duty for him who does it, to commit corruption, and to pay your debt of honour.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0096par0611	We're gonna learn from you? Look at you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0095par0612	What period did you tell him? What period? When did you become a power?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0097par0613	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0098par0614	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0097par0615	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0098par0616	Mr. President, in his speech on behalf of the AKP Group, he named the incident after Osman Durmus himself during the 57th government, where the MPF was also a coalition partner. He created such a misunderstanding. He also claimed and implied that our speaker covered it up by not mentioning it at all. We want to talk about bullying about it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0097par0618	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0098par0619	Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0097par0620	Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0099par0623	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, first of all, we thank Mr. President of the AKP Health Commission, Vural Kalunccu, on behalf of our party because during the 57th Government, the issue of corruption has been investigated and there have been no results, even cases, and it has ended with lack of surveillance. Mr. Kavuncu, if you speak to Mr. Minister of Health Recep Akdağ, Mr. Recep Akdağ, on these allegations at the time, under the decision of Ministry 13 in 2002, he did not allow these statements, these insults to be investigated, and then, why do you not allow the Minister of Health to investigate this? If there is corruption, let those who are guilty be punished. It has been said, pressure has arrived, and in the end, Mr. Health Minister Recep Akdağ of the AKP government has appointed Ministry inspectors to investigate, and the Ministry inspectors of your era have done research and concluded with lack of surveillance. So it's wrong to make it sound like there's something wrong with a case that doesn't exist.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0100par0625	Tell them.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0099par0626	Another issue, Mr. Kakuncu, unfortunately -- you're not guilty here -- but since the beginning of Mr. Recep Akdağ, you've still received 14 pens from our fellow citizens, 14 shares from our fellow citizens, and for 14 years you've been forced to transfer $732 billion from the budget to the Social Security Agency because of their health expenditures. Do you know whose money this is? Orphan's money, Turkish nation's money. Do you know what can be done with this money? Here, instead of giving that pensioner a three-percent raise to the officer, you give him a decent living, a human salary raise. But what did you do? Three percent raise. So, what did you do yesterday? 60 percent increase in medical fees. I say, "O Justice of the AKP, have mercy!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0100par0628	For God's sake! Why didn't you just say that?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0101par0629	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Mr. Yıldırım, come in, you have a request for a statement according to 60, one minute...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0102par0633	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, the orator only covers claims during the DSP-MHP-ANAP administration. However, in the event of positive voting and the opening of relevant documents, corruption would appear to be the health minister of the 61st government, 59, 60, 61, and Mr. Akdağ. This will all come out. On the other hand, he says there's a legal contract with the University of Aegean. Did you know that one of the people who did it, Mr. Cantaloupe... was signed by the Ministry's cleaning worker? It's in the document.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0103par0636	What ministry?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0102par0637	Another: Look, we're talking about corruption going on until 2007. Another is that the IT programs, which are expired and cannot be renewed, are called by the sector. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0104par0641	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0102par0642	The ministry has approved both the use of pirate software and the continuation of it, and anyone who has no doubt about its abdestiny will have no doubt about its prayer. He could've allowed the investigation in 2007, and the investigation would've been conducted, and I'm saying he could've cleared both the bureaucrats and the Ministry. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0104par0644	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Bostanci, come in. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0105par0648	Mr. President, thank you. When Mr. Horseman left the bench, there were serious allegations, he said to pay off your debt of honor. This word is often used in Greek, which is essentially a Greek word, which comes from nomomos, which is a rule, meaning in order. There are three forces in charge of rules and order, which I remind Mr. Horseman, law, execution, and judgment. If such claims are found, the law will meet the requirements of the nation's willful legislation. Just like everyone else would agree to that, Mr. Horseman. The executive has to do things according to the rules of order. If there is, the malfunctions will be contested, and politics will play a role here. Finally, judgment: If there are serious allegations, its destination is judgment. It's the judgment that's going to save that with political speculation. Please let them go to judgment, let them know what this job isn't. After him, like this...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0104par0651	I'll turn on your microphone. Complete.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0105par0652	...from translating political speculation, so to speak -- in truth -- it's the judgment that will save this business from making the market. My advice to friends is to go to trial. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0104par0654	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0106par0659	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit01spe0104par0660	I'll call you if there's enough to make a decision. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerks, I'll use electronics to determine if there's enough to decide. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. During the vote of the People's Democratic Party group, there was not enough decision-making, so I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes and look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday/1/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The parliamentary research motion, which was submitted by Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin and his friends on 4/1/2017 to determine what to do to ensure the safety of electricity supply, began in the last days of 2016 and continued electricity shortages. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Wednesday's 4/1/2017, and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Ahmet Akın, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0107par0017	Mr. President, I've made a promise to discuss the very valuable lawmakers' group proposal we've made. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. On New Year's Eve, I curse once again the vile terror attack at Ortaköy in Istanbul. To those who lost their lives in the attack, I pray for God's mercy, and for the patience of their relatives, and for the immediate healing of our wounded.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0108par0019	Mr. President, there's a painting that's very offensive to me.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0107par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0109par0021	Congressmans, sir, please stop humming. Friends who want to chat, please step outside the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0107par0022	According to him, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0109par0023	I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0107par0024	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0109par0025	Go ahead, they'll listen to you, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0107par0026	Dear President, very valuable MPs, I hope there's enough generators in the Capitol because we're afraid the power will go out at any moment, because you know the situation in the middle. The blackouts that began in Istanbul and some of our cities have had a bad effect on our industry and our people's daily lives. Our cities have fallen into darkness, and our factories have stopped producing. In his statements, the Ministry of Energy single-handedly linked the power outages to heavy snowfalls in the transmission lines. It's snowing all over the world, dear friends, and there are countries that live more winters and snows than we do, but in any of them, cities are in darkness and industrial facilities don't stop. The blackouts have caused serious damage. Our people were also damaged by the electrical devices they used in their homes. In five days, due to cuts, the loss of our industrial companies in the Gebze region alone has been 300m euros. As well as the damage to factories and other industrial facilities in Istanbul and Circeçeköy, it is evident that the invoice for these cuts is very heavy. Today's Turkey is not fit for hours without electricity or even days, dear friends. What are you going to do as a government about the harm of this nation? When our people don't pay the bill for two days, you immediately cut the power, send the execution, but now what's the harm in this nation? These damages need to be repaired immediately. My dear fellow lawmakers, in fact, electricity blackouts in our country are happening almost every day in different areas. And when you look at the announcements from the power distribution companies, you can see that there's a constant power outage somewhere. So it's said that there's been blackouts in one area, infrastructure renovations, grid renovations. How to restore networks in the cold in winter, that's another thing. Because normally network renovations, system renovations are done in the summer months or in the spring. Dear friends, you know very well that when you're showing systems maintenance and renovations, you've come up with a perfectly good excuse. These blackouts are clearly being done because of lack of supply, which is why they can't be powered. In this way, the country has been cut down across the country, and there are cuts in several separate provinces each day. A total of 87,931 hours in October last year and 86,820 hours in November, following the power cuts day after day. This amount is 61% higher than the same period of the previous year. It's true that the power grids are old and are causing ground failures. All distribution networks have been transferred to the private sector since 2010. These privatisations brought about $13 billion in revenue, and it's been six years. If this money had been deposited in the transmission lines of TEIAS, as we've been saying from the beginning, the lines would have been restored uninfected by weather conditions, and you would not have taken refuge in such excuses. Electric distribution companies are responsible for repairing, renovating, and renovating networks in areas where they are responsible. These investments are made from time to time, but as you know, they also get the price of these investments from our people. You've already illegally combined the money from the public's pocket and put it in the firms' vaults, in exchange for the cost of transportation, the cost of missing fugitives, the price of reading counters, the price of distribution. And you've raised that price by 6.3 percent since New Year's. Our people pay for everything, but they suffer for it. The reductions at the price of energy are not reflected in the bill, and our people are prevented from benefiting from it. In the first quarter of 2017, electricity would not be increased. Of course not, because energy prices have dropped, dear friends. Let alone the raise, it had to be given a discount. My dear fellow lawmakers, it's never enough to explain why we're dealing with these electrical problems alone, with technical reasons, with malfunctions, with seasonal conditions. If so, the problem is much bigger. It means there's a much worse and darker day ahead of us. But we know very well that's not the real reason. And every time we say, "We don't have supply security, and our electricity production planning is all wrong." In 2015, we produced 38 percent of our electricity from natural gas. As of October 2016, we provided 32.5 per cent of it with natural gas. We're importing almost all of this source. We receive a large portion from Iran and Azerbaijan, Russia. Somehow, the slightest inconvenience in the gas flow is enough to paralyse our electricity production. It was created by data that showed that permanent summertime also increases energy consumption. For example, in November, although conditions have not changed, our electricity consumption has increased by 6.5 per cent compared to last year's November. Students have to go to school in the dark, our people have to go to work in the dark. The governors of some other counties, especially Balıkesir, also made their own initiatives to make changes during hours, but the problem remains for the students. I would like to thank our governors from here, who are trying to find a solution to the loss of our people. We expect the same approach from the government. Our governors are more sensitive than the Minister of Energy. As the weather cooled, gas flow was restricted to the circuit plants to meet the gas demand for the dwellings, and the share of natural gas in electricity production was reduced daily, and natural gas plants were unable to produce electricity. On December 1st, the percentage of natural gas in electricity production fell from 35.6 per cent to 27.9 (December 14th), to 20.6 (December 21st), to 16 per cent on December 24th. As of January 2nd, he went back up to 30 percent. If you look at the dates of the problem, you can see the days when natural gas is falling, and even the electricity market has reacted to that, and electricity prices are up to the height daily. On December 23, the price of 1 megawatt electricity rose to 1,900 TL. This is a clear and clear indication of the lack of plans for electricity production. Mr. Secretary, it would be better if he could address the error of electrical policy rather than poses the owners of the distribution firms who are lining up and questioning them at the main stop, but unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, he's not interested. As the AKP deputy leader rightly reacted, he does not fulfill his duty and responsibility by caring for one another. In order to avoid repeated events that have left our country in the dark on December 31st, 2015, especially in order to ensure our electricity supply safety, then in order to get electricity to consumers in order and quality, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources in the first place has to carry out his duty and responsibility. My dear friends, the AKP does not have an energy policy that coincides with the country's reality. In vain we did this in energy, and we did this, and we did this. Don't keep saying that, because there are really painful consequences. I'm afraid you're a failure at energy policies. As in many areas, this lack of policy in energy will soon darken the entire country, I'm afraid. Our people and our industrialist will pay the price, as was the last cut. Therefore, this vital importance must be seized by the High Assembly. I await your support for our motion, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0110par0040	Thank you, Mr. Akin. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0111par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to investigate the shortages in electricity production and to determine what to do to ensure energy supply security, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party. I salute the grand jury. First of all, congratulations to the friends who have the motion: it's a current issue, it's important to discuss here, there are casualties, and that should be considered. Now, especially because of the extreme rain and the storm's failures in the electrical transmission line, the failure of electricity to the factories, the break of the transmission line and the malfunctions, the factory's break-ins, cyber attacks, the government is saying, they're all about them. Now, there's talk about the problem of natural gas and the fact that the vocational rooms consider it a misdemeanor. The interaction of industry and production is absolutely crucial. First of all, the energy demand is increasing rapidly. In the last 15 or 16 years, production has risen from 125 billion kilowatts to 270. If you put the cost aside, it didn't seem like a big problem, but there was a problem. I've expressed our appreciation from time to time, despite our criticism of energy policies from the platforms. Electric energy demand and production are growing faster than growth, and the average production and consumption of 5 per cent has increased since 2000. The share of natural gas production is 40 to 50 per cent between 2001 and 2014, 38 per cent in 2015, 36 per cent in 2016. Supply security is important in energy production. We're 98% out-dependent on natural gas. The problem for supply security seems important and big in the future. Therefore, it needs more attention to domestic and renewable resources. It's always said, it's in the strategy papers, but it doesn't go as far as it's wanted, the obstacles to the investor aren't eliminated. There were five problems in wind, geothermal, solar investment; sector representatives arrived; I said, "Have these five problems changed?" I said, "The 5 problems remain the same." They said, "Keep voting for the AKP." We said that if you want to live with problems, we said that very clearly. Now, we're trying to use technical and hydraulic resources, okay. What should we do with this unhealthy structure? We need to fix it. You've done privatisation as the AKP, as the government. You did the privatisation for funding. Mr. Secretary, you're here. In fact, what was the purpose of privatisation? Supply security, competition, investment, increasing efficiency, pleasing consumers. But, I see, in your privatisations, more than the purpose of privatisation, the purpose of funding has come forward. In the electricity production and distribution privatisation between 2008 and 2013, you converted the right to operate in distribution and privatized 18 areas. The power in electricity production is low... Now, these -12.7 billion dollars -- privatisations that start with HESs continue with thermals starting in 2012; you did 9.6 billion dollars, and then you privatised $3 billion. 100 per cent of the distribution is private, 74 per cent of the production is private, the rest is public... will you do the rest with dollars? Now, you need to know that. I'm complaining about natural gas, there's no such thing. Indeed, customer satisfaction has become very troubling there. And when you look at the distribution, the missing fugitive case is in the open, and it's a mess. Companies borrow money, they can't afford it, they're trying to raise funds. The development of foreign currency since 2013 has made these companies difficult. These companies have a $7.1 billion cash deficit between 2015 and 23... except for the 2016 court difference. No measures have been taken against the risk of this courtship, the damage is above the consumer. After the missing fugitive, there was also the sinking age, which led to the citizens... who were forced into privatisation. And there's a serious risk to the loan the banks are using. Until 2023, the number is spoken in the market. Now, look at the banks' capital -- the first 10 big banks -- and look at how much the distribution companies have paid. You've invested a lot of capital here. What are you doing? You're trying to run a profit margin of 23%. Production companies have less capital than distribution, which is problematic. You get the money with the biggest privatisation, companies start writing damage. There's no way that's happening. It also ruins the banking system because these companies are borrowing money from banks. Now, Mr. Baki has just told us that there has been no electricity in a village in Mersin for ten days. In what year did the electricity come to this village? 1974-1975. Have there been ten days of blackouts since that date? Now, no matter how you look at it, we need to be reasonable. Why am I saying this? What did you do with the maintenance? You're trying to privatize it, we've dropped the goods." What about the quality... what did the planning do, did it get better? No planning. Adana, there is a blackout, there is trouble; Mersin, there is a blackout, there is trouble. The system is having a heart attack right now. You have to be very careful with that. Here's the hitch. It's only possible to say that the transmission line has been cut off or that there's not enough energy, it's because of the cold. Did you have a repair program? How it came to be this winter, how we came to meet it this winter, it needs to be known. I just looked in a newspaper, and there's the loss of $18 million of Turkish economy in an hour's cut. The impact of power outages on the industrialist certainly shakes Turkey's economy. If the whole of Turkey's industry was without electricity for an hour, the damage would be $18m. There are no shortages at this time, but the cuts in the country's industry are showing that the damage is inconclusive. The reason behind the blackouts should be investigated - technical, malfunction, price-raising effort, the failure of natural gas plants, or the decline in electricity production of natural gas power plants? However, in the last two weeks, this share has been significantly reduced. Are there problems here, or is there an overload on the electricity coming from the east? The business world is concerned that they have been informed of an extraordinary situation. Now we wouldn't be so impressed if the time of the cut was announced. The industrialist says. Now, another thing: you've divided the organized industrial regions into twos, threes. The citizen says that they began to conduct electricity between these industrial regions. Due to the blackouts, different practices are sought to overcome the situation as lightly as possible. So we've already signed a research proposal -- especially in the energy sector for privatisation -- and I think we're going to give it this week, and we're trying to get it on the agenda. I salute the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0112par0062	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0113par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's also time for that power to be questioned by society if the political authorities can't meet the basic needs of citizens, as there has been debates about the fact that the current political power has been bothering the community in many areas of life for some time, that it can't meet its basic needs. The need for electricity or energy, we live in an age where the bread is almost as urgent as water, in basic needs. There's no way we can survive without lighting, training, health, cultural art activities, electricity to the full extent of everyday life. However, a crooked society and the political power with a world perspective progresses a little bit further in this direction every day and makes its own power reality questionable in society. So much so that the only way to get rid of the basic needs of society is through the violence and the threats of coup, especially by applying to over-security policies, by politicizing the judiciary, the armband, and all the defence units. Let's put it here that we've expressed that our daily lives are linked to electricity and this energy source in many areas from lighting to heating; the Internet, the IT world -- and let's just say that we're dealing with a political power in 2016 that has failed to meet its goal in any economic parameters, neither in unemployment nor in the middle-term plan, nor in any currency courses. Of course, it is clear to us that, in such a process, the industry's failure to meet its economic goals, especially when it is forced to work again. Again, there was a power outage in different parts of the country last year, and the power outages we've had over the last month are not the first electrical blackouts in this country. However, in the different geographys of Anatolia, especially in areas of production-oriented industry, power cuts are not visible, they are not in the media at the same rate, they are not in our social and political lives at the same rate. Batman, for example, has become an anachronic in the provinces of the region, in the province, in the province, in the province, in the province, in the province, in Mardin, in Şırnak, in the province, in Hakkari, in the region. This region, where we know that most of its hydroelectric energy has been achieved, where we move fossil fuels to the thermal plant, where much of it has been removed from the region, where we know that more than 90 per cent of the raw oil has been removed from the region, is experiencing electrical blackouts as an anachronic problem. In addition to this movement, our citizens, whose homes have been destroyed or condemned to live in broken houses or tents as a result of the violence in the region last year, are being subjected to an additional double power outage, or completely deprived of electricity. The main reason the power outages are more visible this year is because they're happening in major industrial areas. Government officials have come out and solved the electricity problem. They give good news. However, in such an era, the power was cut off, not as good news after repair by the government, but as an accountability. You can't announce after repair because you've cut electricity so much, you've stopped production so much, you have only to account for the fact that this blackout has happened. The 14-year mismanagement of AKP rulings has now reached a palpable point in energy, as we live at every point from foreign policy to economy, education to health, sports to justice. What's it explain to you? There's been a cyber attack. What's the big deal? There's a history of power transfer lines. What is it? Those who make excuses, such as natural gas shortages, are more sorry than they are. These are the confessions that you can't run a country, that you can't meet the basic needs of society in a country. If the power lines are forty-fifty years old, the power has been in place for 14 years. When we brought this up, government officials were talking about the reality of a modernized country. Don't they ask how the energy system became open to a cyber attack of this magnitude, or don't they ask, how the power lines haven't been repaired by a 45-year-old network, in your 15-year-old power, or if we're having a natural gas shortage, why haven't political steps taken care of it? Of course, there are rumors going around. In the privatized plants, some of the companies have deliberately begun their work to reduce production because it's damaged. As giant corporations, if we abandon the public's energy at the mercy of the corporations, we'll be in need of them. Again, when we said that the current government used the use of illegal electricity in the region prior to June 7th as a political argument against certain parts, and then we said that the power transfer lines were old, that the fugitives might be responsible for it, they went on the path of rejection, denial. Look, the country's priorities have changed so much that I'll just give you an example of how to blame our people over social media. A citizen with the same name, Şehmus Seven, in Istanbul's Organised Industrial Region, is sending a message to Mr. Minister on Twitter: "Mr. Minister, there has been no electricity for five days, our damage is too great, can you help us?" After that, the man is declared an Israeli agent, an agent of Assad. He is tried, accused of Marxist and Leninist, and is tried. In response, he says: "I just say there's no electricity, but in return, I'm divisive. I didn't know what Marxist and Leninist was, so I learned. Again, I just wanted electricity, a nationalist person. I'm employing seven workers. I made only one request so that they and I would not be victims, but through this, we see an exemplary example of the attacks and accusations of the white trolls. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, look, the source of Turkey's externally dependent gas has dropped by 20 per cent on December 1, 2016, compared to December 25th. Think about it. His addiction to natural gas supply has decreased in electricity. Why? Because on December 1, 2016, we have a 19 per cent expenditure for electricity production, but as of December 14th, natural gas consumption falls to 10 per cent, 6 per cent on December 21st, and then to 4 per cent on December 22-23-24 December. Only such a macroscale plan can such a government live by inadvertently making people suffer so much. It's called shortsightedness, it's called planning. He is away from the point of meeting the basic needs of people or society because he spends his political power, energy, everything he has on overprotective policies, to build a one-man system. In this sense, I say, a political power must plan more democracy, more freedom, more prosperity, more basic needs through the basic needs of society. He says we'll vote in favor of the motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0081	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Mahmoud Tanal had brought up a topic, which brought to the attention of Mr. Tanal that the Turkish flag on the tent in the Turkish National Assembly yard was covered with snow. The snow has been cleared, the Turkish flag has been lit, Mr. Tanal. Thank you for bringing it on the agenda.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0115par0085	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0086	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0087	Mr. President, Mr. Yıldırım gave an example of the social media in his speech, as a result of his criticism of the AK PARTI Group under the name "ak troll." It's not an obvious criticism, but it's an empirical reference, because the Minister of Energy, an answer he's given is... it's an open taunt. A review of social media trolls cannot be passed on to the EC PARTY. In this frame...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0088	He did the review in this context, Mr. Yıldırım: Due to energy cuts, he said that a factory owner who was in production had thrown a tweet to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, that his activity had stopped, that he had actually brought up a complaint and that he had been attacked by trolls in that frame. How do you interpret that, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0117par0090	Mr. President, does he admit that all of these trolls are related to the AKP? Then you'll be able to accept all that they've done.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0091	Just a moment, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0092	Mr. Lightning, that's not a good attitude.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0093	Yes, Mr. Bostanci, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0094	They can run a business under the name of Ak troll, AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0114par0095	So you're referring to the Justice and Development Party, as you call it. Here you go. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0099	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I refuse to accept the word "crack troll." If we're against something called "trolty" whatever our party is, we need to avoid the language that tenders it to a certain people in politics. Social media has trolls of various types. We're all seeing who gets attacked when they use a slightly critical language that goes on social media. This is not only happening to Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people, the MPHP people, the People's Republican Party (CHP) people, but also to the people of the EC PARTY. Because of this masked ball side of social media, representatives of legitimate politics must stand at a common line in front of those who attack someone with their identity, their identity, their personality unknown, their anger and their rage, for once; this is one. It's about trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0118par0100	Who feeds the white trolls, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0101	I reject this word, Mr. Shooter.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0118par0102	You produced the white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0103	Look, if I go out there and start saying "trolism" with other kinds of names, we'll all be trolling here. Let's be careful.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0118par0104	Mr. President, you proudly said "trol."
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0105	Second of all, it's not right to bring up some of the trolls' statements, what they're doing here in a political criticism.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0118par0106	You pay them wages, wages.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0107	I understand if there's been a false statement thrown at him by the Minister, if there's a problem with communication, I understand that, but he's been attacked by some trolls. It's the prosecutors who follow it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0118par0108	You pay white trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0116par0109	It's not right to come here and make a statement about this. And that, in fact, is not what Mr. Skrill meant, but to trolls... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and settles in the service context. Let's be careful with these. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0119par0114	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0120par0115	Mr. President, just for the record, of course, I have no doubt that Mr. Bostanci's explanations were made sincerely, but I wish everyone here could believe what he believes. For example, a press-journalist who makes headlines instead of themselves, sets a target instead of themselves, constantly insults our party, introduces Haldun Yanıkoglu as a senior white troll. This is not a TV that we control. Let me put it this way, so that you recognize the senior white troll.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0119par0116	Thank you, Mr. Special, it's been filed.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0121par0117	I don't know, it's not about us, it's about my brother, the prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0120par0118	So why are you giving me the answer? Ak trolle Ak troll.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0121par0119	But we have a commitment to the Minister of Energy.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0122par0120	E, your party member, this man is your party member.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0123par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0124par0122	Mr. Lightning, I'm turning on your microphone. Please come in for a moment.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0123par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, I thank Mr. Bostanci. Indeed, it has made clear to the public a matter that cannot be made clear. He's connected his own party to white trolls or such a well-known group, especially those who are busy with social media, with statements that have hurt public opinion. Second of all, let's say: what about the ministers and mayors who use two accounts? They're using two accounts. We wonder why a person wants to use two accounts, why he wants to hide himself. I'll tell you one more thing: what is the opinion of the members of the group who call themselves the chief troll? Which he accepted on Twitter and explained himself. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0125par0131	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The Republican People's Party Group is against the proposal and the last speaker on the proposal is İstanbul MP Hasan Sert. Here you go, Mr. Hard.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0126par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself against the Republican People's Party's proposal for recent blackouts, and I salute the Supreme General Assembly with love and respect. I would also like to point out that I also condemn the incident of my hand in Ortaköy on New Year's Eve. I want to thank my dear brother Ahmet Bey of the Republican People's Party, who spoke before me, and Emin Ayhan Bey of the National Movement Party, for their valuable explanation. You know, there have been significant developments in the energy sector in our country over the last decade. In terms of electricity production, especially in terms of power in the board, there have been some very successful studies due to significant increases in production and consumption. As a result, we see together a relief brought by big projects and big projects. As we look at Turkey's point of view in the electric sector, we see that electricity production is the 20th place in the world, while electricity production reached 239 billion kilowatts in 2014, at 29 billion kilowatts in 2002. In 2002, we have 12,000 megawatts of hydroelectric power, and in 2014 we see 22,000 megawatts. In addition, in 2002, we had over 300 power generation plants, and in 2014, we witnessed that this was more than 900. I'd like to give you all this in advance, but as a matter of fact, I'd like to explain some technical information about the power cuts that are the basis for the motion, and I'd like to inform the public, both our fellow MPs and our friends. You know, power outages have been mostly in the Istanbul area and in the Thrace region. In terms of how Istanbul feeds on electricity, we see that the electricity produced in Anatolia has 11 main lines during the transfer to Istanbul. Four out of 11 lines feed other parts of Anatolia until they reach Istanbul, and seven other lines feed Turkey's industrial centre, industrial centre, production centre, Istanbul. There have been major malfunctions on these 7 lines, but Istanbul doesn't feed on these 7 lines alone. Again, there are also two main lines that run under the Canakkale Strait, where it feeds; it also feeds on three different lines from which we receive from them from time to time the electricity produced there in Bulgaria and Greece. Therefore, seven lines are being tried to meet Istanbul's energy needs, along with the line from Europe, which leads from Anatolia, two lines under Çanakkale Straits. Of course, in events that took place on 29/12/2016, two days before New Year's, the geographical conditions, heavy winter conditions, all transmissions in the Istanbul-Adapazari region have shifted hundreds of poles and more than 200 putter towers today due to ice and severe wind detection. In fact, this power outage, which was caused by these slips, has actually had a negative effect on production in the Istanbul area, but why should it be that the Ministry of Energy here blames it? If we hadn't interfered, if the Ministry of Energy hadn't intervened, if he had been delayed in taking precautions, he might have been given a right motion, but the effort to achieve the goal that was intended to be achieved after the immediate solution phases. Thus, with an extraordinary work performance in the region, where extraordinary winter conditions continue, operations were immediately launched, especially with manpower, snow machines, snowmobiles, and large road vehicles. At this point, if you look at the cuts in the provinces: for example, the European Side of Istanbul, Anatolia Tekirdağ, the Yupeli regions are areas of intense power shortages. In these areas, there's been a partial power outage on Thursday. Although some of them were tried to repair on Friday (30/12/2016), energy reductions continued. On 31/12/2016, only 200 megawatts of energy was cut off on the Istanbul European side on Saturday. In fact, it's all been tried to power up. At no point has there been a power outage on the Anatolian coast; there was no shortage of energy in Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ), and there was no shortage of energy in Kopeli. Energy cuts were still removed on January 1, 2017 and January 2, 2017, except for one or two points. What are these dots? The iron steel zones in the Thracian region, the OSB region of the region, the iron steel zone in Adapazari, and the OSB regions in Adapazari, have been partially cut down until Sunday evening, which is Monday, Tuesday, and the day before, and today only a small cut in the iron steel field in the Thracian region. Actually, what I'm trying to say is that it's kind of normal to have cutbacks in these areas, and if we had been delayed, the reasons would have increased. During my stay in the United States, long-term blackouts -- of course, as a result of disasters -- are many times that we have encountered. This does not prove the government's failure, nor does it reveal the Department of Energy's failure. Another way to look at it is that the power lines, which are also minute by minute and hour due to the failure, have been tried to adjust the energy needs of our people, especially the production of factories, in Osmanca, Beskoz, in OSB, in the Machine, in the Dilovah position of New Natural Gas, and in Tepeören, in many areas. In doing so, most urgent work has been attempted to tolerate these studies with 11 teams from nearby areas shortly after the failure, with 164 employees, 5 snowmobiles, 5 business machines, AFAD (AFAD) and all other institutions trying to transfer their resources to the area and repair the victims of our people. My dear friends, when examined for the last decade, in 2005, our consumption of electricity was 160 billion kilowatts per hour, and in 2015, the rise of that figure to 264 billion kilowatts shows what point Turkey reached from which point. I'd like to add to some of the issues that I've been working on here in particular, and I'd like to touch a few things politically. Public order must be maintained in Turkey, and the state must show its determination to the maximum. PKK operations must be carried out without reduction. Armed organizations, whoever they are, should be condemned by all parties. Guns must be buried. IT MUST BE EXPLAINED THAT DAEŞ and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are not a right-seeking organisation. Kurds and freedoms must be supported; PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, YPG must be questioned and cursed. I also care about the support of our friends in Congress yesterday to extend the state of emergency for three more months, and I find it precious, and I thank you. Again, it's been used by some of our fellow lawmakers, who were previously used by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You are a traitor. You are sold. You will be drowned in the blood. You will be judged. You have sold your brain. Besides, I don't find it so elegant and meaningful to make such negative remarks and then distribute carnations in groups. I salute the High General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0127par0156	Thank you, Mr. Hard. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0128par0160	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit02spe0127par0161	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Akın, Mr. Çaybek, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Akkuş Ilgezdi, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Akadım, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Karbıyik, Mr. Hakver, Mr. Balçınkaya. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0127par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. The elections will be held for members of the People's Democratic Party Group, which are available in some commissions. Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan for the free membership of the Plan and Budget Commission... I submit to your vote that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman... All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Under Article 21 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 2 members of the Personal Data Protection Board will be elected. I'm having the candidates shown by political party groups read by their last name in order: Justice and Development Party Contenjan Candidate List Peoples' Democratic Party Group Kontenjani Candidate List Members of parliament, under the 21st Amendment to the Protection of Personal Data Act, the political party groups have nominated twice as many as their membership. The united ballot was printed on the candidate's last name according to the order. If the meeting and decision is sufficient, the election will be selected as candidates for the most votes from the Justice and Development Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group lists. Members of parliament, a 5-member Commission will be identified by drawing a name for the census and transcript of the vote. The members of the Commission for Accounting will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Now, I'm running for membership: Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale? Here. Celal Doğan, İstanbul? No. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya? No. Volcano Bozır, Istanbul? Here. Cevdet Yilmaz, Bingöl? No. Nuri Okutan, Isparta? No. Fatma Güldemet Yellow, Adana? Here. Adnan Bonekara, Adıyaman? Here. Alican Önlü, Tunceli? No. Mahmoud Kazar, Şanlıurfa? Here. Yeah, there's a five-man Commission. I now propose that the vote will be carried out in the same way: from the commission and the government's cabinet members, the clerk members from the commission, from Adana to Denizli (including Denizli) and Diyarbakir from Diyarbakır until İstanbul (including Istanbul), the clerk members will mark the name of the MP from İzmir (including Mardin) to Mardin, from Mersin to Zonguldak (including Zonguldak). The named MP will be given a sealed joint ballot and envelope. The MP who used the game will throw the envelope containing the ballot into the ballot box placed in front of the Presidential Court's bench. On the united ballot, the Justice and Development Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group will mark each candidate's names with a cross-section sign in the square. More than one candidate from the Justice and Development Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group candidate lists will be invalidated on the ballots. These issues are also listed on the joint ballot as footnotes. Now, I request that the members of the clerk take their place and the ballots and the envelopes be delivered to the clerks. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? The voting process is complete. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Board of Accounts: Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale; Mahmut Kozar, Şanlıurfa; Adnan Boynukara, Adıyaman; Fatma Güldemet Sarı, Adana; Volcano Bozır, Istanbul. Let's hand over the ballots to the Commission for Accounting. We're waiting for Mr. Mahmoud Kozar, the draft process, which he didn't show up for, could not begin the counting process. But here, we took the names out of the bag, and I made an announcement to all the members, to all the members of the Commission for Accounting. Even so, Mr. Runar, I don't know if he's got an important alibi... Is there any information on the whereabouts of Mr. Kozar? He'll be here in a minute. Mr. Runar, the entire General Assembly is waiting for you. Welcome. Let's start counting. [[The votes have been discriminated]] I'd like to inform you of the report from the draft committee: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 272 members participated in the election for membership in the Justice and Development Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group, which was empty on the Personal Data Protection Board, and the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Ramadan Can Volcano Bozır Adnan Boynukara Fatma Güldemet Yedi Mahmoud Runs Justice and Development Party Group Candidate List Peoples' Democratic Party Group Candidate List According to this, Ihsan Ezel Büçüksekban of the Justice and Development Party Group has been selected as members of the Association for Protection of Personal Data from Peoples' Democratic Party Group. I wish him well. I wish the chosen members the best of luck. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We are starting talks with the Turkish Republic's Retirement Chest Law and the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 446 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision adopted, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, I will meet your demands on the entire bill. On top of the whole bill, I will promise the political party groups first; then I will promise the MPs who have asked for a pledge on behalf of themselves. On behalf of the groups, the first talk will be made on behalf of the National Movement Party Group by Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0129par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the bill of law 446 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. We're discussing the first law of 2017. Another bag of law. The AKP government never gave up on the love of bags, never got out of the bag. While drafting the bill, legislation was again ignored, participation and social dialogue were not considered. The government spends its taxes in bags; it refuses to do tax reform. In recent years, tax cuts have been distributed into the bag of laws, with exceptions and exemptions related to incentives, in part, in part, in part, in part, in part, in terms of investment environments. There's a lack of regulations, and soon they'll have to be rearranged. The system is not being handled as a whole and organised with a reformist understanding. The point is whether or not the resources go to waste, there's no evaluation. It's not possible for us to travel in this kind of day-to-day policy. Structural reforms should be implemented immediately in areas the economy needs. Our farmer's name is not read in recent bag-bag arrangements. For what it's worth, a bag isn't even made for our farmer and peasant. As problems grow in agriculture, the government is stubbornly insensitive. The peasant and the farmer are having a hard time. Our farmer is overwhelmed by bankers and loan sharks. Our farmer's field, his garden, whatever he's got, is mortgaged. Our farmer, the harvester, has bought a tractor, so he's doubled his debt today and can't pay it back. The number of forced-insured farmers registered to the Social Security Agency is diminishing every year. A comprehensive support package must be put into effect immediately, not to be insensitive to the problems of our heavily economic and debt-laden farmer. Farmers' agricultural loans and electricity debts must be allowed to restructure the period without paying or interest. Farmers who suffer from disaster in Mersin must be compensated, their debts delayed, interest-free, and long-term loans allowed. The government must show compassion and goodwill by offering a helping hand to our oppressed farmers. Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage support for employers launched in 2016 with the 25th article of the bill is continued in 2017, but it is still unacceptable that it does not include our tradesmen, farmers and muhtars. Especially our small tradesman and farmer are crushed under heavy tax and premiums. This year's minimum monthly insurance premium has been raised to $613, while the farmer's minimum monthly insurance premium has risen to $490. The tradesman and farmers who failed to pay their current premiums were granted free use of public health services by the Council of Ministers' decision dated 29 September 2015, since they were unable to receive health care, and continued to apply with government extensions. Even that shows clearly what happened to our tradesman and our farmer. The tax and premium burden of the merchants and farmers must be lightened, and the support given to employers must also be given to our shopkeepers, chiefs, and farmers. The government has raised some of the victims' taxes and fees by 7.5 per cent to 3.83 per cent and some by 7.5 per cent. However, the tax rate of 2017, which should be increased by a resuming rate, has remained the same, and only the first slice has been increased by 3.17 per cent. In Article 123 of the Law on Taxes of Taxes, there is no consideration for fractions that do not exceed 5 per cent of the sums increased by the amount increased by the amount increased by the number of fractions, but the Ministry does not take into account the exact figures, rather than fractions, to increase and reduce the amount of the amount determined by the Council of Ministers to 50 per cent. See, in the first quarter of the income, 82.5 euros of 482.5 euros of this year, 69.60 euros of 669.60 euros last year, 112.10 euros of 1.112.10 euros in the previous year were not considered, while other income slices of income have never been increased this year; in this way, government, the tradesman and employees' wages and employees' incomes incomes have not been increased at all. While the government has not dared to bring in its mortgage tax, it has imposed 14 years on its suppliers and its interest lobby, it has tightened the stock of the tradesman, farmers, small-income, and workers. The minimum wage for this year is 7.9 per cent higher than gross $1.777.50, net $1.404. The minimum wage will be reduced to 20 per cent income tax in the ninth month, and the net minimum salary will drop below $1,404 starting in September. Mr. Prime Minister said he wouldn't fall over the year, but our offer to arrange it was unfortunately rejected. The minimum wage, according to its definition, is a minimum wage for meeting the employee's mandatory needs, such as food, housing, clothing, health care, transport and culture, according to the conditions of the day. However, the provisions of the Constitution and related legislation were again ignored as minimum wage was set. As of November 2016, Turkey's Statistical Agency calculated the monthly spending amount of a single worker working hard at $1,668.90. As of November 2016, a family of four must spend food, so the hunger limit is 1,416,83 TL. Again, the monthly cost of a single employee is 1,750,31 TL. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has set the measure of 2016 to 15 liras. The Fitre is calculated by considering a person's daily minimum food requirement. According to this, a family of four needs a month's minimum food is $1,800. The minimum wage obviously doesn't even meet the workers' minimum food requirements. As the National Movement Party, we see the need for net minimum wage to be raised above the hunger limit, to provide transportation support for minimum-payers in large cities, not to be taxed on minimum wage, and the employee's minimum wage to be tax-free. Dear lawmakers, while the government raises taxes and tuitions, the bill makes arrangements to pay pensioners for more than 30 years without updating them in Article 1. The difference of bonuses over 30 years without updates is incompatible with the principle of justice and justice. For those who have filed a lawsuit on the subject, the fact that they will be paid in legal interest from the date of the pre-trial application will also lead to inequality in terms of those who prosecute and those who do not. The application adopted by the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office on January 7, 2015, when the Constitutional Court cancelled the original 30-year upper limit for the pension bonus, due to lawsuits with more than 30 years of service. As a matter of fact, pensioners are entitled to their rights through the trial, but the arrangement is also blocking the judicial path. It is unfair not to update the pensioners' dues, but also to be blocked from taking their rights through the judiciary. The regulation violates the Constitution's principles of equality, justice and law. Again, the article (2) is an intervention in the judiciary and clearly contrary to the Constitution. A motion on criticism from the commission has been made to pay at least $50 per year and no less than $100 per year. To be rid of a penny's worth of change, injustice, injustice, and inequality that has not been paid off, "they pay three cents for the public." Clearly, it was done to avoid criticism. Unfortunately, as the National Movement Party, the Commission has rejected our proposal to update the bonus payments over 30 years on the basis of today's coefficients. We'll repeat our motion here as matter is discussed. We're waiting for our motion to support the pensioners' rights. The AKP government is brutalizing our nation with high rates of increase. The citizen faces a new increase every day. As transportation, food, water, fuel, everything -- a high increase in government, taxes, medical fees, highway fees, a high rate of 4.73 per cent to SSC and BUG-KUR pensions; a 3 per cent increase to civil servants and civil servants' pensions. In the promotion of the bank, the mountain rats were born, pensioners, they were in a state of silence. Retireds are deceived by inflation, consoled by a low salary increase. The majority of pensioners receive months below the age of starvation. The problem with pensioners is they have trouble making ends meet. Retirement pensions aren't enough. The AKP has sunk the pensioner into debt, into crisis. Every penny that goes into our pensioners' pockets goes to raises, interest, tax. Retired pensioners who can't make the end of the month with their monthly salary are looking for additional jobs to make a living, even under negative circumstances to provide additional income. Retirers suffer from inequality between pensions. The AKP has promised that the pension between pensioners will meet its injustice, but it has not. As the National Movement Party, we repeat the call for resolving the differences between pensions, sharing in pension growth without growth, removing some participation in health care and making arrangements for pensioners to be paid twice a year, under the name "responsibility allowance." Dear MPs, many issues have been overlooked or missed during the construction of the bag of laws. Some articles that are against the Constitution, specific, delivered to an address, or even benefiting from others are compressed into the bag of laws. This bill included similar arrangements for certain substances. The application of VAT exceptions to the sale of municipalities and private administrations with the 8th and 9th amendments of the bill has been lifted for at least two full years. No satisfactory reason has been given for why this period is needed to be removed. In addition to this arrangement, there is a history of pardons for previous sales. Because it is organised to not seek value tax to add to the remittances carried out by municipalities and the state's private administrations before, not to mention any prior tariffs, to abandon the tariffs, to abandon the charges imposed, not to be rejected or extradite the collected sums. Who are those who disobey the law, commit illegal acts, and want to be pardoned by the law? It must be explained. In addition, it is incompatible with the principles of the state of law, that the tax payments paid by non-refundable areas should not be returned. Therefore, this provision, which is illegal and special to the address, should also be removed from the draft text of Articles 8th and 9th since the public transports should also be saved freely without public interest. In Articles 21 and 22 of the bill, the Court of Ministers stipulates that the right to unlimited altitude for forty-nine years should be established over the removal of property to the Treasury and public institutions to those who are granted tax exemption and provide conditions for students in education and housing activities. It still raises concerns about the low price transfer of the assets to such foundations and the taking of other public property while possible, and whether or not there will be a transfer to certain foundations. The bill leaves the preferential arrangement to three ministries. The bill has not determined which conditions or criteria to look for. Turkey is discussing how students should be sheltered due to negative developments and developments in the unauthorized or unregistered student dorms belonging to the foundations and associations. In particular, the welfare of the children of poor families must be provided by the state in order not to be put into the hands of different structures. In our opinion, it is imperative that the state provide us with a capacity that any student who wants it can have. Therefore, the 21st and 22nd articles, which constitute a special arrangement of the bill, must be reviewed, and the transparency and radical measures must be taken to improve the quality of education and homes. Dear lawmakers, the bill provides some tax benefits for yachts, cotras and boats. In this scope, annual visa allowances are removed from the ship, yachts, sea and internal water vehicles registered in ligature logs. Signing tax on ships and yachts to be registered to the Turkish International Ship's Register is included in the tax, tuition, bank and insurance treatments, and the exception of funds, including the rent of ships, time charters and contracts of all navlun. Ships and yachts are also expected to be released from the Turkish International Ship's Register to another record or to be released from the past, with the exception of taxes, pictures, mortars and no prior tariffs. On the one hand, the ship and yachts are encouraged to register to the Turkish International Ship's Register, but on the other hand, it is a contradiction to use incentives on the other record. In addition, there is a special arrangement to submit to an address on the issue of non-responsive history, abandonment of tariffs, abandonment of expirations. Whose tax debts will be abandoned? Again, it is a special arrangement to ensure that yachts, kotra, boat and cruise ships, the actual or corporate people in Turkey, the imports, the tax, photo, tuition exception to registered and transactions, the tax review or registration of those who import them or register them or register their names, or avoid taritures, or abandon previous tariations. Who and why are guaranteed not to study taxes, and why are past taxes waived? Does the subject have a legal or unethical dimension? The incentive to make foreign flag yachts, kotra, boats and ships with Turkish flags is of course important and must be done, but the arrangement must be clear, not to challenge suspicion or doubt. In this respect, the 14th, 15th, and 36th article, which poses a suspicious appearance, must be removed from the draft text. Precious lawmakers note the AKP mentality's interest in ships, yachts, quotas, the effort to bring and guarantee tax ease to them in almost every bag arrangement. The government, the boat owner, the yacht owner, the cotra owner, gives tax-free diesels, tax, tuition and funding exceptions, lifts annual visa allowances, but they never see the taxi driver, truck driver, bus driver, van driver, etc., movers. The driver's shop, whose earnings have fallen in the face of taxes, premiums and high fuel prices, has become unable to bring bread to their families. The AKP government is taking on the movers, truckers, as if they were the most winning citizens in this country. Traffic police are turning the trucker, writing the ticket; the Transport Ministry is turning the trucker; they're ticketing him; they're looking at the trucker again. What do you want with these strawberry truckers? The government must now see the problems of our mover's tradesman. The driver's shop, who does freight and passenger transport, must also be given non-tax-free fuel. The driver's shop must receive tax reductions and conveniences. A chauffeur who makes one of the world's most corrosive professions should be given a share of wear and tear. The authorization documents must be removed from the burden and torture of the driver's shop, the confusion in the practice must be resolved, and the use of documents without the purpose and the unfair competition must be prevented. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0130par0125	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On top of the bill, Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I want it to be a good year. Although we didn't start out well, let's make it a good year. Let's keep our wishes, friends. Dear friends, we begin again with a bag. Look, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, and a lot of laws go through the Plan and Budget Commission in the form of bags all the time. And for about a year now, the government has been bringing us bags of certain measures. Especially lately, he's been bringing constant economic measures into a state of panic because some things aren't going well. Constantly, because the investor has some demands, the investor offers us not to look for environmental conditions because he always wants more; past, the famous 80th article. The terms of the environment should no longer be observed. He was able to bring a law called the Plan and Budget Commission. For example, he made a motion for the employee's unsecured and flexible work. I'm going to give land all the time. He's brought motions to the investor, who I'm going to give free land to. I'll build the factory." he said. You know, it's so rare, it even brought this. There's no such thing as a union, there's no such thing; there's no rights to workers, no rights to workers. Don't worry. He said to the investor, "I'm not going to get tax the most." He said, "I'm going to get taxes. I'm going to get taxes. I'm going to get taxes. I'm going to get taxes, I'm going to get all the taxes, I'm going to get all the stamp taxes, I'm going to get less." Why do you think they're friends? Why is it that for over a year, recently, in a state of panic, the government has been bringing constant motions to revitalize the economy? Because things aren't going well. Look, just two months ago, Mr. Finance Minister came to the Plan and Budget Commission, and he said: "We predicted the growth of 2016 at the end of 2015, 4.4, but just two months ago -- look -- we're going to do it with a realistic goal and a conservative goal. What is it today? Two and a half. What happens when the fourth quarter growth is announced? And that's going to be shrinking, unfortunately, industrial data and all the data are showing it -- 2016 growth that's going to fall below 2 per cent. Look, there's a government that failed to comply with his proposal just two months ago, which is a revised proposal. For inflation, he said: "We said 6 per cent, but inflation will be 7 per cent." What is today, 2016, end-of-year inflation? Eight and a half percent, so it's gone up. Growth's gone for two quarters, country's shrinking, inflation's going up. It's called the stagflation in economics, so inflation goes up and there's no growth, on the contrary, there's shrinking. It's called stagflation. Unfortunately, it's the worst. You know how we used to call inflation bad? Stagflation is his worst, the country shrinks and inflation grows. Dear friends, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been on TV today, I've heard, lower interest rates." He says to the banks. First, I'm instructing public banks to lower interest rates. I'm telling the Central Bank: Aman ha, lower interest rates. There is no trust, and the Treasury is barely in debt by 11.5 per cent. The Treasury under its command is barely in debt with 11.5 per cent. You're saying: lower interest rates. I'm looking at lots, no matter what wisdom it is, when the President says, "Get down." The court goes up 3.55 to 3.58. Look, yesterday, before the State of Emergency extended its extraordinary state, the court was 3.52. The moment the Prime Minister announced it, the court went up to 3.60. So every time they talk, we have a President, a Prime Minister, and unfortunately an unwitting economy administration that takes our economic lives or political lives to a worse place. And it's not clear where the economy is headed in that sense, folks. In the palace, you know, what the counselors say can be more fundamental. The economy, however, is managed by one hand, and in this sense, not knowing economic science, is the cause of interest, inflation is the result. Unfortunately, it works with consultants who can even get it said. Economic scientists pluck their hair when they hear it. Well, let's see what this bag brings, fellas. Of course I told him about the yearly process. I'm sorry. It says Mr. Prime Minister. He explained it again today. You get angry when I say don't lie, but at least tell me the truth. Mr. Prime Minister, 12 million people have a record problem. So 12 million people fell into default, 12 million people who couldn't pay their credit cards, who couldn't pay their taxes, who couldn't pay their debt to the banks. That's a big number. So say times 4, we're talking about 30 million people with their families. So almost half the population of the country has fallen into default and has a record problem. What you're saying is that we're bringing a record pardon. Let's look at the article and see if this clause brings a record pardon. This article says: "The problems of this record may not be taken into account. " It says: "Look, it may not be taken into account. " So you're not getting a record pardon. You know, the Banks Association has a record and information center, where that information will stop at the center, the information that it fell on default. Even if a citizen pays his debt, know that, citizen, even if you pay your debt, your record will remain there, and the bank will not give it to you if the bank sees or if the public banks want to give it to you in accordance with the pressure. I mean, it's not a record pardon, citizens. What's the other thing? The insurance premiums for the first three months are postponed in October, November, December. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister." He said it two months ago, he said it today, but it's not the truth, Mr. Secretary. You're postponing the first three months' insurance premiums in the last three months, Mr. Secretary. Aren't you informing the Prime Minister? He said the same thing today, we postpone the first three months' bonuses for the last three months.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0137	Are you informing your party?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0138	I did, of course. Now you'll see, our friends have studied well.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0139	So you have information?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0140	You inform the Prime Minister. You're the government.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0141	Do you understand the subject?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0142	You inform the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0143	Do you get the idea?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0144	Of course I understand.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0145	Thank you...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0146	He will pay the insurance premiums for the first three months in the last three months. He says again today.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0147	That's what the law says.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0131par0148	Oh, it's not, sir! Tell me that's part of it. Not like this.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0133par0149	What do you mean, the moon? Do we not understand or do we not know?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0150	Maybe you didn't know.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0133par0151	No, we have news.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0152	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0133par0153	Yeah, it's all about the stuff.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0132par0154	Can you tell me about it?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0134par0155	I don't want to get too involved in the ship, the yacht stuff, our friends, in the materials. The matter of this ship, its obsession, the government, whatever it is... yes, the Turkish flag is very important to him, but it's not right that he should be exempted from taxes, my friends. You know, it's not right to be so nice to the rich. Look, the AKP's government was involved in the abundance of money, and it's been happening for 14 years. The U.S. Central Bank has always brought in expansionist policies. And the reason why the 2009 crisis was tangent is because the Bank of America opened the money taps even more, and as these money taps opened, friends, 500 billion dollars went into our country, so this is 500 billion dollars in debt and investment, look, it's a huge resource. But what did the government do with this $500 billion? Look, these resources have largely turned to debt, and for all our citizens, rather than creating a wealth effect, there has been more debt impacts on large areas. So the income wasn't effectively distributed to the base, more debt was distributed. So our people were advised that the household would be owed money. So instead of raising revenues on the base, the minimum wage would be raised to higher numbers, the debt would be raised. It made the public feel insecure. Look, everything's great when the mill runs, but if the mill feels like it's stopped, the public, the investor, the consumer, the base, especially the narrow incomes and debtors, they panic when they feel the water stop, because they've always been told that the economy is going to grow. We're going to have a $2 trillion economy in 2023. According to TİK data, we were at $680 billion last month. Come on, TİK data moved you to $800 billion. The export numbers have been in place for five years. The economy doesn't grow where we're coming from, on the contrary, we're shrinking. Which brings to the climate of a chain of fear, my friends. Look, 55 percent of the wealth is one percent of the population, the total wealth, 55 percent of all our assets are one percent of the population. This was only 39 per cent of the wealth during the AKP's transition to power. I'm going to spread the fortune to Tabana, and when I say... yes, the cake has grown, but it's taken 55 percent of the cake. And that didn't create that sense of confidence in the small-income, the workers, the economy didn't make it feel good, but rather, you borrowed those parts as much as you could. Hundreds of billions of dollars came in, and those resources were transferred to society as debt through the banking sector, and now, once the trust was gone, friends, unfortunately, that section began to shut down, not consume any more. What kind of measures are the government considering? اKOSGEB will lend 50,000 lira to the shop owner. He says, institutions predict reductions in taxes. Look, when things get bad, the capital, the investor always wants more, he says: "Give me more concessions, lower my taxes, give me incentives. He's the one who always wants more." One of the most important substances is 25 billion dollars -- 25 quadrillion liras in old money -- the government's funding -- says it will guarantee a loan worth 250 billion dollars. However, only 25 billion euros is expected to be met by the government, and there is a possibility that the problem loans of investors will turn into loans guaranteed by the government, my friends. Look, you're always suggesting that if we make the investor feel good, he'll make the community feel good; he'll take the workers and grow jobs in society, and the production will grow. The consumer consumes less, and in return, the manufacturer produces less and reduces its investments because there is no demand. The government has always suggested that we support the investor. Well, Your Honor, why don't you think of something different this time? This time, why don't we make the people feel good, build up the debt of millions of debtors on the ground, increase their income? Why don't you suggest? Look, you've only raised the minimum fee from $1,300 to $1,400. But this is the sign of last year's growth of the first two quadrants with a 30 percent increase. Because we raised it from $1,000 to $1,300, in the first two quarters, growth was 4 percent. Now, if you make $1,300, there's no growth, guys, because that's the kind of thing that doesn't feel uncomfortable, secure, reduces their spending and doesn't spend it because there's no sense of income. In that sense, look, even on the dollar, the minimum wage is that you raise it to $1,400 under serious losses, but that's because it's going to make our economy feel unsafe. Binali Yıldırım has admitted that we are in an economic crisis, which he recently announced. We are in this economic crisis, friends, but the government will determine how much damage it will do. Everyone's nervous right now, go out on the street, ask everyone, they're nervous. Workers, tradesmen, everyone's got a future to worry about. If he's worried about the future, friends, the wheels slow down. In this case, I suggested to Mr. Secretary that in the Plan and Budget Commission, you always work with economists, Mr. Secretary, work with some social scientists to bring this matter of trust into play. Look, are there any social scientists around? No, it's always the economists.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0135par0164	Yeah, they're all graduates of social sciences.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0134par0165	Look, Mr. Bacheloroglu -- I don't know if he's here -- there's a lot of social scientists. There's a serious crisis of trust in society. Our Mithat Hodja is a social scientist, almost all of our group are social scientists. Let's tell you how trust can be secured, why trust is broken. Look, the consumer trust index is crawling on the ground, the economy trust index is crawling on the ground, the investor trust index is crawling on the floor. In a climate like this, you can't liven up this economy with these substances. Dear friends, it's not just economic measures that make you feel secure, secure, feel that the future is going to be good, it's where social science comes in. So, friends, let's see what doesn't work. We have an investor, our worker, who works hard, wants to produce, wants a better future, wants better economic conditions. The problem, however, is that the system doesn't work, the political institution doesn't work, the legal system doesn't. Dear friends, where there is no social peace, people don't invest. Look, our society is in serious dissolution. In particular, the Constitutional proposal you're planning to pass here next week is a proposal that will further camp the community and polarise it. The law doesn't work. Look, in the Rule of Law Index -- you're always talking about numbers -- Turkey is 99 percent in 113 countries. In 113 countries, neither local investors nor foreign investors make an investment in a country ranked 99 percent. In this sense, based on a system of legislation, execution, and judgment, we can only look to the future with confidence. Look, the tourism industry is an example of the industry. According to last year, there is a lack of tourism by close to 30 per cent. Why do you guys have this? Because our sense of the country has gone to another point. Look, if you write something like this... you write a paper by the Ministry of National Education that says, "No Christmas and Christmas events... because it's not appropriate for our cultural values." If you write, friends, there won't be tourists in that country. Let there be Christians in this country -- well, you don't care much about them, but -- isn't it Jesus Christ's birthday, friends? Don't you consider Jesus Christ a prophet? You would then deny your religion.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0136par0169	Have you ever sacrificed at our Memorial Day?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0134par0170	Christmas celebration is a celebration of a new year, you know, not Christian. In a country where this article is written, friends, unfortunately, there will be attacks like that Reina attack. Hate crimes are made up of hate words, friends. Unfortunately, such hate speech can lead to such hate crimes in a country where the President of Religious Affairs considers Christmas celebrations illegitimate. From that point of view, we all need to think about what our country is coming from, from what point, from what perception, from what perception, from which point of view, we all need to put the hat in front of us, friends. And who will be billed for this crisis, my friends? We're in a crisis, and with your suggestions, we can see that you're planning to bring it to the worker, you're planning to bring it to the laborer, for all your war policies, for all your conflict policies. Look, unemployment is 12 percent and it's coming up on them, inflation's rising, everyone's restless. The bill of this crisis goes to the worker, the worker, but the worker and the worker will give you the lesson at the referendum -- if it passes -- and, of course, you will pay the political account at the necessary point. To get out of here, guys, what should we do? We said social scientists. We should hug each other, guys, hug each other. All the communities are here, all the sociological sections are here, all the ethnic identities, all the religious identities. You're the majority, I'll do whatever I want. If you act with emotion, you'll be free of politics, you won't run the political institution, and the economy won't work. In that sense, our proposal is to give up the issue of polarizing society and withdraw the Constitution proposal. Look, we said we'd keep the state of emergency, and the economy went into even worse chaos. Remove the state of emergency, let's run the state of law. If we do all this, if we just do this, friends... trust the investors of this country, trust their employment, trust their workers, their workers, their farmers, we trust them all together. The whole point is, if we just run these substances, the economy will take action, or we'll have a major economic crisis with the political crisis, and, friends, we'll all have to hug each other to make sure that doesn't happen. Look, the quality of our democracy determines the quality of our economy. The better our democracy is, the better our economy is, because we don't have oil, and the more democratic countries that have oil, the better the quality of democracy, the better the quality of democracy comes. The quality investor doesn't care about taxes, he doesn't care about taxes, he pays high taxes because he feels safe. It doesn't hurt the environment, it doesn't look at the quality investor and it doesn't want me to exploit the worker in that sense, because unions are strong, workers get their rights in countries where democracy is strong. We're facing a problem of placing our country politically from the minor league to the third league, but our bet was to get it into the major league, and our economy is now, unfortunately, drifting from the middle income trap to the narrow revenue trap. To avoid all this, friends, I say we all hold each other together. I'm saying that both our economy and our politics -- things that require good economic functioning -- go well with politics, and judgment goes well with law enforcement, and there are no segregation and hate crimes. In that sense, let's not discuss these articles, let's discuss the issues that promote politics, which govern the political institution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0137par0180	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. Thirdly, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Zechariah Haziel will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0184	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the 446th Amendment proposal. As I begin with my words, I wish you good lawmakers and all members of the House a healthy and peaceful year. Dear lawmakers, 2016 has been a very difficult year, and it has caused a great deal of pain. We lost hundreds of martyrs, billions of dollars in economic losses, our country became a risky country. We entered 2017, wishing that our democracy would not face threats, that there would be no casualties in treason, that there would be a real peace in our country and around us, that we would be free of terror, but we were attacked by terror before two hours of the new year were over. Our country has become the target of separatist and religious terror attacks from the inside and the outside. Since its establishment, the Republic of Turkey has not dealt with such dire terrorist attacks. We've become an attack site for PKK's, ISIS's, the terrorist organizations who haven't yet made their name known. Our security forces are fighting against these organizations, working their asses off. However, this is not a problem that can only be solved by security approaches. There's only one way we can stand against these terrorist attacks, which is to strengthen the national union against the July 15th attack against the democratic republic, to repudiate the dissolution of the society and the behavior that fuels the debate, to run the legal state in accordance with the principles of universal law. Dear lawmakers, I regret to inform you that we are also starting the process of legislation in 2017 with a fundamentally contrary work. In the past period, the bag of legislation, which we have criticised for reducing the quality of legislation, came to us again during the first legislature of 2017. So, dear friends, we will continue to bag and slaughter the law in 2017, as Mr. Mehmet Günal. From the arrangements that we've already put in the bag, before the ink of the law is dry, we're making a different law, and in that new law, we're changing them. Arrangements can't cure trouble, they can't solve problems. Dear friends, every bad law, every lousy law, takes a piece of democracy. Democracy has become a violent, wounded bruiser. We're also trying to carry out our last attack on democracy by changing the Constitution. We're discussing this draft of the Constitutional Amendment that creates great tensions and concerns in society, and we're fighting. We're struggling to change the Constitution we're sworn to uphold. Instead of concentrating our power on solving the country's problems, we're making arrangements to gather power and authority in our democratic republic, the President. For God's sake, precious MPs, we've been asked a hundred times before, but we can't stop asking again; what authority does the government now have that they want to use directly and indirectly, but what authority is missing? Besides, what is being done is not to complete the lack of authority in the state, but to gather the powers in a person that cannot be seen in a democratic republic, to personalize the powers; to change the presidential and republic's quality as a result of personalisation. It's essential that a democratic republic... There's no need to say it in fancy, waxed sentences. These were the first ones to be mentioned in the studies of civic knowledge, which were used to be mentioned in those books. These books said that in civic studies, the democratic republic would stand on three legs. Without these principles, there would be no democratic republic. What were they? We all know very well that the separation of forces, the independence of the judiciary, the control of any process of execution. But, dear friends, are these principles protected after these changes? I'm afraid not. The president, who has gathered all the powers of the administration, also assumes the duties of living with his decrees. The judiciary's independence is being undermined because the appointment authority in the judiciary has been left directly and indirectly solely in charge of the administration. Unable to install the control system after the current control system is disabled. In short, Congress is now ineffective on its most basic powers. Dear friends, you all accept the importance of the budget to use the House's control authority, and you know that a government whose budget is not accepted resigns because this Parliament has not allowed its one-year application. You're making new arrangements, giving the President the authority to present the budget. The budget is being brought in, it's not accepted. What are we doing? We're ruling the Constitution, and we're saying that if the budget is not approved in Parliament, the budget that was applied a year ago will continue to be implemented by increasing in certain proportions. Is that even possible? Later, the Parliament will maintain its power, and the Parliament will continue to maintain its power. Dear friends, in fact, with the arrangements we make, we change the immutable clauses of the Constitution, which means that it breaks its feet, and then we think it will survive. But the most dangerous, perhaps the most important, is that we're putting our amendment arrangements in the bag, and we're replacing the Constitution with a bag of law, my dear friends. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey is 177 articles, you know. The regulation for amendments in the Constitution is 18 articles in view, but you count the changes in Article 51, and then 21 articles are removed, and all of the items removed from the Constitution are in a bag of materials. It's the first time a democratic country has ever changed the Constitution with a bag. If you're changing the Constitution, change it according to procedure. In what way will the validity and protection of a constitution that you have not changed in accordance with its code be provided? Of course it won't. Dear friends, the Constitution is changed under the powers of the Constitutional Court, which supervises compliance with the Constitutional Court. The Article 128 (48) of the Constitution clearly states how the change in procedure regarding the laws is being made, which clearly states: The Constitutional Court sees whether the final vote is being carried out most of the envisioned by the law. So, what's going on with the amendments to the Constitution? In constitutional amendments -- it starts with this expression -- the proposal and the vote are based on whether the majority is obeyed. You'll be looking at the majority of votes, dear friends. You can't change the Constitution by voting collectively by putting the articles in the bag, and you can't do that. If you attempt to do so, you have changed the basic principles of the Constitution. Therefore, all the articles you have changed in the Constitution must be brought in and discussed here one by one and voted on. Most of the time, it's a vote, it's a majority-responsibility thing, it's in the constitution. Dear friends, that's not gonna happen. This is something that only democrats dream about as a nightmare. With this arrangement, we're not just destroying the republican tree, we're cutting its roots. It was hard, it was hard, it was hard, it was hard. So, from now on, everyone has to think once again about these changes, putting their conscience before them. Now, about what we did with this bag of law. Dear friends, is the arrangement brought to the House as a New Year's gift and announced in this way truly a gift to the community? In fact, since there is no rest in the House, it may have been overlooked by what our friends have just said, because the critics all say the same thing, more or less. Yeah, these aren't regulations, these don't bring anything to the public. Your arrangements are directed directly to the address, specific delivery work. Not these. Some regulations are changed within this bill before the ink is dry, since the previous bag has been quickly removed from the law without having been studied enough. An economy doesn't depend on so many changes, the changing of the law so quickly. Troubles are starting to get a lot bigger around here. The first article of this bill, the valued MPs, makes a change in the Law on the Retirement Chest, and you all know it. As good news for the pensioners, even as we set a schedule for the meeting of this law, the deputy head of the Justice and Development Party, the arrangement that everyone, pensioners, had been waiting for. This arrangement -- friends have indicated -- that the bonus for pensioners in 30 years was not given to employees for 32, 33, 34 years. So, if you've been getting pensions for thirty years, if you've retired in thirty two, thirty-three years, you haven't been getting bonuses for that. The Constitutional Court cancelled it, and it's good, and it's late, but it's off. There had to be a legal arrangement. This arrangement was made at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, where the arrangement went down to this Parliament, where it waited for six months; in six months it was not legal, it was not even discussed. Then what happened? He was thrown into the bag. The changes made regarding this arrangement, which is thought to interest 400,000 people, are indeed about to open a huge hole in our democracy. Not this one. The law has to be fair. It means nothing if the law is legal or the law is written against it. Imagine that the money you would give to a teacher of the 3rd degree who retired in the early 1990s was expressed by pennies. It's been replaced by motions, raised to 50 liras in the exchange, 50 liras. In exchange for a year's bonus, consider the behavior of a person who has been given $50 in return by putting a little bit of yourself in his place. Let's face it, there's a point where you don't have the patience for this kind of erosion. Dear friends, three more articles of this bill have been removed a few months ago, and the ink is not dry. There's nothing to say, it has to be fixed, it has to be done. However, this bill has a particular number of substances that have been brought in as if this was the reason for the removal, which is that the fundamental law of the Turkish shipping industry, which, for some reason, cannot be implemented, has been distributed in a way that is not understood in what it serves by dispersing its troops in different places. Across the country, arrangements are being made for the substructure of ships belonging to citizens of the Republic of Turkey and traveling on another tape. Good, let's do it, no objections. However, when dear friends make such an arrangement, you will in no way receive taxes, pictures, mortars, or anything related to them. In fact, we've put the exception clause on its head since it first bonded. Ships that had previously been docked here were regularly paid for renovations each year. We removed that renovation fee. Why did we lift it? In Turkey's following conditions, why don't you take the bonding tax from a ship every year, even from a regular car, in the event of how many meters of boats come and connect there?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0139par0203	Their own ships, their own.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0204	These are simple, obvious systems that they do when they go to other countries and connect. They rent a mailbox in a tax paradise. The bonding price here is about one third of the rent of the mailbox there. Next to him, they're giving a lawyer power of attorney, and that lawyer does the general board of their company every year, or he's finishing his process for the resuscitation. The money given to the lawyer, the money given to the mailbox, they pay it off just fine. I'll come to Turkey, but I won't even pay the bonding price of one-tenth of them. What conscience would consent to that? So, what do they bring us? No response. 5,600 ships will come here. It's not a ship, it's...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0140par0206	Lie down...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0207	...boats, yachts, cotras, sailboats, et cetera; of course, he will come.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0141par0208	Shipby, shipby.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0209	But the strange thing is, if these ships were to come on behalf of people in Turkey, we wouldn't be taking any of them because of those who would donate them. This shows that people's own ships have regained consciousness, but when I make a law, it's not my finger that blind, it's not a country's reputation that's underfoot. And he won't give us the estate and the estate tax. So tomorrow, after this law came out, someone gave these ships to thousands of people in Turkey. If they came to them, of course, you'd bring them to Turkey without paying any taxes, tuition, et cetera. What kind of government is that? Is there a state that doesn't have that kind of economy, doesn't have that kind of presence, doesn't know how to register their assets?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0142par0210	Yeah, the AKP's a state.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0211	This needs to be reviewed. Then, after six months, he'll leave, saying, "You can leave." You can get out, of course, I mean, there's freedom in the economy, and anyone who wants it comes out, and they give the same incentives, and they don't take anything from there. There's a law of amnesty about the previous procedures -- let's say in parentheses -- that pardons like this, will definitely enter the group of items that will come out with the qualified majority of the Assembly, and it can't just walk out of here like it's an ordinary event.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0143par0213	He's tax-free, too.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0214	So, why would these ships that came out six months later come in earlier and come out again six months later? Dear friends, we don't want to blame anyone, we don't want to make such an assessment, but it's called money laundering in international law and literature, money laundering, and we certainly don't want Turkey to be blamed for such events. If we, the three-sided country, want to make a proper arrangement on this issue, we have to do it within a full legislature and turn it into a form that parallels the practices of other countries. You can't do all of this, precious friends, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, where it comes from, all of it, all of it, all of it. Since time is running out, there's one more thing I have to say very briefly. Dear friends, at this moment, with a record pardon, an incredible hope has been created throughout the entire community. People think that our bank loans or interest will be pardoned and so on, and there's a pardon coming, and the bank thinks they're getting a pardon. Don't, if hope is raised and then suddenly left lying around, these people have a very high reaction. No such thing, no such thing! The only thing to do with a record pardon is to give you that opportunity in the Bank Association to pay the debt to people who have failed to meet their obligations so that they can't use credit or credit cards.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0144par0218	Mr. Cleanel, I'll give you one more minute, please complete your speech.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0138par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the only given: come pay your debt or make it up to you and start paying it. Then I'll see if I can give you a loan again. He's trying. Say it like that, there's no other way. Tomorrow people will come, when they see what they owe, what they owe, what they'll pay, and if they had the power to pay, they'd be gone by now. All of our arrangements survive, dear friends. So we've become extremely dangerous. That's why the laws we make don't inspire respect. We're starting to practice so that we're blaming people, taking possession of their property before their trial is over, before their crimes are fixed. We're arresting people for aiding or supporting a terrorist organization. Of course he'll be arrested if necessary, but we're confiscating his grandfather's olive grove because he's been arrested. We need quality law, dear friends, quality law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're not supposed to ask for a law that drowns in a bag. So we need to do a real soul accounting on these arrangements again, including the fact that the Constitution has been bagged. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0145par0228	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. The talks on the entire bill on behalf of groups are over.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0146par0230	Mr. President, I have a brief request, but...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0145par0231	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have asked for a word on their behalf, but before that, I see that Mr. Special is demanding a statement. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0146par0235	Mr. President, thank you. In view of the situation, the Justice and Development Party did not demand a word on this bag of legislation, it does not exercise the right to a 20-minute speech. We can see that the Ministry would not do such a thing, that they did not ask for a word. In such a bag of legislation -- which our Minister has just made clear -- how ill-conceived it is in the quality of legislation -- in the Plan and Budget Commission, in all the laws here, the Plan and Budget Commission, it is preferred to have an unhealthy legislation that the Plan and Budget Commission has been able to run as a subcommittee, and that all relevant issues are placed in the same bag and do not have opinions on the matter in parliament, but if there is one, when the motion is carried out, lawmakers can speak for five minutes. In such a bag of legislation, should we interpret the fact that the Ministry does not use twenty minutes of words and does not give the Parliament any information about the matter, or should we interpret the fact that they are unable to defend a number of non-partisan substances, even though there are a few important clauses in which we support them, they are unable to stand behind the law? At least we'll expect the Minister to answer at his place.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0145par0237	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0147par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0145par0239	When a former finance minister speaks, does a new one need to speak, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0148par0240	That's the only way the situation would have earned a courtesy, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0145par0241	Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu. I'll turn on your mic... I mean, there's such a thing as respect for a master in the Ministry of Finance; when the senior master talks, the junior doesn't talk.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0149par0243	It used to be. Now the feet are heads, heads are feet.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0150par0244	Sir, report to the report. The Minister's attitude towards the House could only have earned courtesy in such a statement. I congratulate you, too.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0151par0246	You're welcome, I didn't speak on behalf of the Minister, I expressed my own opinion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0152par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, for the record... because, on the one hand, there is a law presented as good news to the public called the Law of the Retired Ark. Actually, I need to clear this up. Because, first of all, let's say that we're against the law of the bag and the law of the bag. Because it's three months past, and three months later, we're faced with another bag of legislation, because it's not discussed in the commissions, and it's being brought directly to the Plan and Budget Commission, and it's being prepared in that turmoil. It's a thing that undermines the reputation of the House and the reputation of the legislature. First of all, I'd like to express it. Secondly, we are facing lawsuits won by the Constitutional Court at the end of thousands of people's lawsuits over their rights extortion by all the state federations, union calls on this law, and a legal arrangement that should now be carried out as a result of the trial. I mean, it is, and there's no good news that the government is doing to our people. Of course, that's the way it was supposed to be, but at the same time, we're faced with another right to the law itself.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0153par0253	Come in, finish up, please.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0152par0254	I'll finish it. With this bill, it also faces another right-to-do, actually employees, because it also nullifies cases that are currently being held in local courts. If these cases were to continue, people would be able to get their compensations with the coefficient today, but now, after this offer, after the law that's being negotiated now, not with today's coefficient, but when they've retired, they'll be able to get their compensation, they'll get their compensation. So, there's no good news, in fact, that they have earned rights, that they have workers, that they have workers, that they have to be able to get more compensation with this law, and then there's also the lack of it. But the bottom line is, this isn't happening with the bag of laws, and we're facing a situation that completely undermines the reputation of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0154par0258	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I have stated on the entire bill that the talks on behalf of political party groups have ended. Then two members of the group, the vice president, took their word, and we fulfilled those words. Now we're going to talk about the entire bill in person. I'm going to make a promise to the MPs who have asked for a personal word. The first speaker is Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Gaziantep MP. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0155par0267	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the Law of the Retirement Chest and to the Amendment of some Laws. I salute your high council. Congressmans, we live in a difficult geography, and we are having a tough time in the country with it again. We're dealing with dirty games aimed at our unity and peace. We're in an unprecedented struggle against domestic and international terrorist attacks. We see clearly and understand that not just against a few terrorist organizations, but against seven heifers, there is a new struggle for sovereignty. Our country, our state, our nation, has the power to overcome all of this without ever losing our will to fight, to change our goals for the future. Dear lawmakers, they want to break our hope, weaken our enthusiasm, deflect our goals. We will never allow this to happen, we will continue our struggle with determination, and by God's permission, we will overcome terror. I would like to ask God's mercy to the soldiers, police and citizens who were killed in the fight against terrorism in these difficult days. I want to curse here once again all terrorist organizations and all those who support terrorism, especially from the PKK, DHKP, to the DHKP, to the union of our country. Members of parliament, Turkey is also in a stunning global race. We have a young population, a dynamic economy, constant changing social, economic needs. So, here we are making legal arrangements to respond to these needs. Each of the laws, such as the R&D Act, the Portive Rehni Law, the Adventive Environment Law, which we've all recently passed together, is very important. And the bill that we're discussing today is a very comprehensive arrangement that concerns different parts of society. The bill includes regulations concerning very different laws. Tax incentives are being brought to businesses, investors, exporters, and SMEs are getting easier to access the loan, allowing the naval sector to develop. Arrangements are being made for officers' pensions. This bill is basically a prescription for the needs of our country's economy within the framework of decisions taken at the Economic Co-ordination Board meeting held on November 18, 2016. Each article in this prescription is extremely important because different legal provisions are being carried out that are expected by different parts of society, which they want out as soon as possible. The arrangement for the Credit Guarantee Fund is crucial to ensure that our businesses have access to the loan, especially to increase the real sector's ability to use loans. This arrangement creates a 250 billion-dollar loan volume. With the volume of credit, the credit market expands, the opportunities to use loans are increased, the real sector is resuscitated. Last month, there was a protocol between the Treasury Undersecretary and the Credit Guarantee Fund to facilitate the access to the financing of SMEs and exporters. The goal here is a stronger support of the real sector. In order to do so, the opportunities of the Credit Guarantee Fund are increased, resources are facilitated through the Credit Guarantee Fund, and bureaucracy is severely reduced. The January, February, March social security premium payments are being boosted to businesses that benefit from minimum wage support, with the transfer of tocation to October, November and December. This change is being made, especially in our small and medium-sized businesses, to contribute to businesses' cash needs, to support business capitals. If the two companies operating in the manufacturing industry are the COBI, it is very encouraging to apply discounted institutional tax to up to 75% of the three terms, including the time of the merger. So businesses will be able to join forces, expand their business scale, become institutional, and develop competitiveness. In the manufacturing sector, investors with investment incentives will be able to retrieve the VATs they were loaded with due to construction investments in 2017, but were unable to deliver the issue of discounts through means. In addition, the incentive for investments will be raised by raising a tax reduction rate for investment expenditures under an investment incentive in the production industry in 2017. According to VAT legislation, municipalities and municipal private administrations are subject to a value-appropriate tax if they sell their property before two years. Again, with an arrangement in this bill, the requirement for two years will be eliminated, providing resources to local governments. In this way, the quality and diversity of the service to our citizens will be increased. For years, our seas have been full of foreign flag ships and yachts because of the tax burden on ships and yachts. With the estate tax and income tax and other tax exemptions, these ships and yachts will be encouraged to carry our country's flag, thus allowing an effective control mechanism, so the development of the naval sector in our country will be encouraged. Under financial liability insurance insurance, the market will increase competition with an arrangement to ensure that the insurance companies can also be used in the process of damage measurement, and the local industry, which produces these parts, will improve. Members of parliament, the problems that have been raised in the past will be resolved by the Supreme Court on the cancellation of the 30-year limit in the account of the main service period for the bonus with the regulation of the officer's pension payments. With all these arrangements, I would like to say that the decisions made at the point of our economy's development and the resolving of all these problems, the ECK decisions, are involved in the draft bill at the point where our executives, our producers, our investors are taking advantage of it. Despite all the negatives, Turkey's economy continues to grow and will. These decisions will increase our economy's competitiveness and increase in employment and production and exports. In 2017, all other measures necessary for further growth of Turkey's economy will be taken in the future, as they are now. The goal would be to increase the growth of our country in 2017, improve our exports, increase our employment and reduce unemployment. Despite the fight against terrorism, despite regional problems, despite the decline of the world's economy, we ended 2016 with an extremely growth rate and growth rate. This is where he says we'll get better numbers in 2017, and I salute your grand delegation with the wish of good luck and good fortune of this bill.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0156par0282	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Now, the government has a demand for word. On behalf of the government, Minister of Finance Naci Agbal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is twenty minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0157par0288	Mr. President, I've come before you to make statements on behalf of our government regarding the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. As I begin my words, I salute you all. First of all, there is no misunderstanding about the government bill at the information point of any kind, I would never think of such a thing, by conferring together, I specifically asked for a word because there was such a request. For him, there should never be a misunderstanding. It is always our duty to inform our commissions, our General Assembly on the bill, in that respect, and I thank you for this warning. Mr. President, valued lawmakers create investments, the most important source of economic growth, production and employment. During our administration, we also passed through our General Assembly a number of legal regulations, especially in the last year, aimed at reducing investment costs, reducing business costs, and improving investments, so in the last year, we also signed important regulations in terms of improving the investment climate. At the same time, there are arrangements to meet the various needs of our public administration, and when the time comes, I will inform the General Assembly about those arrangements. Mr. President, I also have to say that entrepreneurial, economic growth and development have a driving power of innovation and innovation especially important. With this bill, we are implementing very important incentives to promote entrepreneurial initiative. In this scope, we bring to you the provision of a substance arrangement in this bill in 2017 to continue the minimum wage support, which we started in 2016 to support business capitals, particularly the underprivileged SMEs, and also contributed substantially to the increase of registered employment. We are also implementing an arrangement that extends insurance premiums to our businesses, which benefit from minimum wage support in order to make our private sector employers more comfortable with the financial burden. The speakers who had just spoken about this have made some assessments. We have made this clear in our statement to the Commission, and we have made the necessary information on the matter. In the system where we started the minimum wage support application in 2016, we provided this opportunity to all of our employees who received a certain amount of income, under a certain amount of wage, and thus took advantage of the minimum wage allowance of about 10 million employees, whose salary was less than $2,550. Now, for the first time, this time, we're also bringing a postponement for the insurance premium that should be paid in January, February and March 2017. And when we're doing this postponement arrangement, we're creating a scale. We do this scale limited to our businesses or employees who benefit from minimum wage support. We've expressed that, I mean, in the Commission, we've expressed the budget cost of this arrangement...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0158par0294	That's not what the Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0157par0295	And that's how I explain it, as Minister of Finance, in different environments, as a system. Our Prime Minister, of course, has shared with our citizens what our businesses have been waiting for in particular, the main title of the arrangement. So we put out the details of the arrangements under that headline, both in public and in the Commission, we shared their details with them. In particular, in January, February and March, I think it's an important support for the business capital our businesses need, especially in October, November and December. One of the important arrangements in the draft of the legal arrangement that we bring is that we increase the amount of support we have provided to the Credit Guarantee Fund from $2 billion to $25 billion. Now, you know, there's a two billion-dollar limit that's been provided to the Loan Guarantee Fund through the Treasury Undersecretary for the risks that our businesses use to return loans from banks. We raise this limit to $25 billion in legal regulation. In this way, the Credit Guarantee Fund provides a crucial opportunity for the return of both new loan demands and existing loans, in the framework of agreements with banks under secondary legislation, by using these limits -- the 250 billion-dollar limit to banks. In this regard, one of the important provisions for this bill, especially for the private sector, is the one that we have provided the Loan Guarantee Fund with. On the other hand, one of the key regulations in the draft of the legal arrangement is the new incentives that we bring to our businesses that invest in the investment incentive system, especially in the manufacturing industry. There's already -- you know -- in the current incentive system, by applying discounted institutional tax, we've actually covered a significant portion of the investments, as a state, with taxes that we've given up. We're increasing the current incentives to make investment spending more attractive in 2017, both in the current incentive documented investments and in new incentives. What are we doing? First of all, we're increasing the contribution to what we call an investment in incentive-certified investment spending in the manufacturing industry by 15 points. For example, in an investment of $100 million, like $30 million, when we financed it as a government with taxes that we gave up, we say for 2017, we raised it to 45 million. So we're going from $30 million to $45 million. So we're providing a significant incentive for our businesses, especially for investment spending in 2017. We're not just raising the amount of investment here, we're also bringing down the total amount of income that can be reduced over the corporate tax statement. That's an important arrangement. Normally, even if you are entitled to an investment reduction within the current incentive system, there is a certain amount of institutional tax due to the area of investment, but in 2017, we have the right to apply the tax reduction rights to the entire income. And that's extremely important. So, I'm especially calling on all of our investors here: we expect our investors, who were certified incentives in the manufacturing industry in 2017, to increase their investment spending in particular, especially by considering these extraordinary opportunities that have been brought in. In this regard, we're already supporting investment spending with other instruments. Again, you know, we also offer unlimited use of the tax on discounted institutions, which can be used for other gains from other activities in 2017. This is an extremely important arrangement. Again, one of the important arrangements that we have made to investors in this bill is that we can provide tax refunds for construction expenses under the incentive document. Normally, when you build a factory building as an element of investment in promotional investments, the added value tax you pay during construction remains a burden on the business. So it's only possible to take it down from the gross when the business goes into operation, but what we've brought here is the right to return the added tax on construction investment spending in 2017. In particular, the more our investors increase their investment spending in 2017, the more they receive the added tax. Again, one of the important arrangements we bring in incentive-certified investments is to be paid value tax due to the purchase and rental of software and non-profit rights, and we make exceptions. There's already an exception to adding value tax in incentive-certified investments, but we know that many of our investors can actually buy or rent illegal rights in the investment phase or buy software again. We also apply software and non-existent rights purchases and leases, especially to reduce investment costs. One of the key provisions in the bill is to encourage the merger of institutions. You know, the bigger the scale, the more institutionalization in companies, businesses, the more competitive they are. So, given that we have a busy economic structure of small and medium-sized businesses, we should certainly bring in incentives that make business scales bigger, institutionalizing businesses. In this sense, we reduce the rate of corporate tax by 75 per cent during the three term after the merger, including the three terms after the merger, if the COBIs, who are producing an industrial record in the manufacturing industry, if the two companies merge into a single company. Thus, we offer a reduced tax rate to 5 per cent of the company's tax, which is 20 per cent. This brings a significant tax advantage to our businesses, especially our companies working in global competition in the manufacturing industry. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, another provision that can be the main topic of the legislation we have made is the regulations we have made regarding the naval sector. At times, when this issue is brought up, it's described as an arrangement for the naval sector. We're not claiming to make an arrangement for the naval sector. We're doing an app on taxes, pictures, mortars, bank insurance taxes, which are already being taken, depending on the ownership and use of boats and yachts. Mr. Secretary here said: "It would be more accurate to have a general arrangement of the naval sector here and to bring it into this. I mean, of course, there are a lot of regulations that we've made as a government so far. The naval sector has really grown significantly during the AK PARTI administrations, has increased competitiveness, and we have given the naval sector important incentives in this sense, including both manufacturing and export and business maintenance repairs, and we have made very important opportunities, and today the Turkish marine sector has become a truly competitive sector with the world. In that sense, we always make extensive arrangements in matters related to the naval sector, but what we're doing here is we're bringing in a number of incentives in our seas, in our ports, from different sizes of ships and yachts that are not included in the Turkish ship's record. It's not a Turkish thing, it's a competition environment that has been created in some countries around the world, in some centers, at very low rates, by registering the amount. As Turkey -- these ships and yachts are the ships and yachts of our citizens -- what are we supposed to do? In this global, global environment, we need to bring the same competitive tax structure against this system. What's more natural than that? So, with the arrangement that we've made, we continue to collect the registration fee for the first recording of the ships and yachts, removing the annual tuition. Because if you're going to make an arrangement in this area, whether you want to or not -- Mr. Secretary knows very well -- you have to put two things on a scale: What tax do you get if you don't make this arrangement, and what tax do you get when you do it? So today, we know that many yachts and ships are being used by our citizens, although in this sense they are not registered on the Turkish ship's record. In that sense, the arrangement that we've made, as far as it's concerned, is a unity that includes all elements. We don't claim to make a general arrangement for the naval sector, and we've already made several important arrangements on that subject. Again, one of the key regulations in the bill is what is described in public as a public record pardon. For various reasons, we make the check an important convenience for our citizens who have failed to receive it. We have to be careful of international norms in this area, whether it's easy or not; we have to be careful of the rules of the banking system, of principles, of working. There are two areas where Turkey is most powerful today: one is public finance. Indeed, Turkey is an exemplary country in terms of public financial discipline. Two: our strong banking sector. In that sense, our banking ramios are at a point where Turkey is really moving forward. There's going to be a tradesman's record pardon here. At this point, our banks are eager, willing to do this practice. As a government, we form the framework for the legal arrangement necessary. Our citizens will benefit from these regulations if they follow the rules and rules set here. For him, I honestly don't think it's right to have a negative opinion on the matter from the start. We'll follow this app together. But, as I just said, we have to be very, very careful about international norms, rules, general principles of the banking system, risk-based banking methods. Again, one of the arrangements that we've made is that we've been working for more than 30 years and we've been solving the issue of calculating pensions for retired people in the past. There are cases going on here in court. We're changing the pension bonuses of all our citizens, especially from the date when the Constitutional Court cancelled the legal arrangement on this issue, by eliminating judicial disputes. Here I also thank the opposition parties. In the commission phase, we all made a joint assessment, and we made a joint determination on the minimum amount of pensions every Christmas. Thus, with this determination, we will indeed have solved a problem in this area. Again, this bill includes an exception to the value of added tax in municipal and municipal private administrations' immovable sales. Again, we have regulations to remove the seizure of vehicles that have been introduced from customs in violation of the rules or have been placed in the dorm with a low declaration, in the case of certain taxes being paid. We have arrangements for the number of meetings of the Central Bank's Financial Policy Board. Hopefully, all of these arrangements, of course, are expected by large communities; we have regulations that concern our pensions; we have regulations that concern our employees; we have regulations that concern the business community, the investor, the production. The debate at the General Assembly will take the final form of the bill within the framework of opinions and will be presented to our President's approval. I'd like to thank you for all the contributions you've already made. I respectfully present to our High Council, our General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0159par0310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0160par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0159par0312	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0160par0313	Mr. President, I'd like a word from my position.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0159par0314	Here you go, I'll open it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0160par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary actually repeated my words. I mean, he's agreed there's no record pardon, but the Prime Minister insists he has a record pardon. The Bank Association has a center and a record pool there. This record pool contains information of our citizens and says they will not be erased. The law shows that it can only be ignored, so there is no deletion, where our citizens' record will remain. Only the banks may ignore the situation. Secondly, Mr. Secretary said the insurance premiums were partially declined, but that's not how the Prime Minister describes it. My advice to him is to have the Prime Minister give us that kind of information. Otherwise, our citizens will go to the bench. My record has been erased. How can you not give me a loan?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0161par0319	Well, thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0160par0320	Let me finish.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0161par0321	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0162par0322	Now, Mr. Paylan doesn't want to understand. I insisted, very clearly, what he said, what I wanted to say on the stand.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0160par0323	That's not what the Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0162par0324	I told him, and I told him that the Prime Minister expressed the principle that we set up in the general context of the arrangement on this matter. Before that, let me just say that the arrangement we've made is a record pardon for our tradesman. This is not true, even if you say it for different reasons. This is a pardon for a record brought to our shop. There are sides to this arrangement, there are banks, aren't there? There are banking regulatory and auditing institutions, businesses, and this arrangement itself. As this arrangement is being made, all sides, our banks, are extremely positive, extremely constructive; in the event of the implementation of this arrangement, they have expressed their willingness to implement it. The arrangement on this issue included the provision that will enable our banks to implement this practice in a legal way. On the other hand, in the matter of operating, I mean... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, since it's very important...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0163par0328	I'll open it. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0162par0329	Again, within the matter arrangement, a principle is adopted that both the risk analysis systems of our banks are being taken into account and the interests of our tradesman who wants to benefit from this record pardon. So don't worry, this substance is carefully written around a common goal with all parties. Our banks, our tradesmen, and other parties on this matter will take care of it. On the matter of delaying the insurance premium, I've made it clear here and here in the commission. So you can put a very different meaning into my explanation...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0164par0331	Not yours, the Prime Minister's...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0162par0332	No, my statements are consistent with our Prime Minister's statements. There are no problems. You're just saying it's like there's some kind of meaning here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I'll tell you this: We'll keep our Prime Minister informed of everything. And all of our Prime Minister's statements are in accordance with the laws that come here, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0165par0335	Mr. President, we understand.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0166par0336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0167par0337	Mr. President has made a mockery of me by saying that I have different meanings.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0166par0338	No bullying, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0167par0339	Then from my position, sir, for the record.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0166par0340	Congressmans, look, now we're having conversations about all of them. The groups spoke, Mr. Koçer spoke on behalf of himself, then the government asked for a word, and the government spoke. On behalf of him, I will now promise Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu. That's gonna be a question-answer in a little while. In a moment, we'll be doing a 20-minute QA on the whole bill. At this point, if we can turn this into a mutual question-answer...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0167par0341	It's not a question, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0166par0342	...we'd be acting against the Civil Code, and we'd be taking away the rights of the waiting speakers. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP, on behalf of himself. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0168par0346	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the High Council of Ministers of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and the Bill of Laws that Changes Some Laws, and I salute you all. Now, the law has such a name that because it doesn't fit on the cover, there's been a wake-up call, some laws. ▪ How many laws does he call some laws? They've collected 19 laws, put them in a bag, named after the law, the toilet law. They've passed some laws because his name doesn't reach the page or the cover. It's got everything you want from retired yachts and quota owners, taxes to student dorms, banking to urban transformation. Dear friends, this is no way to make a law.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0169par0348	Stop it, Kelalaka.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0168par0349	We're MPs, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the quality of legislature is very important. A law is like a wall, and when you draw a substance, it's like you're pulling a brick. Now, when you pull a brick out of that wall without thinking about it, tomorrow that wall collapses. After that, a bag of law brings in five more bags of law. And then there's a poor, unqualified government. Now, look, the Minister of Finance has spoken. There's an arrangement for pensioners, and it looks like something's going to be paid for by pensioners. Don't think the government wants to give something to the pensioners. The Constitutional Court has made a decision. It was like, once upon a time, no one got paid over 30 years on a pension. The pension was paid over thirty years, whether you work 40 years or 45 years. The Supreme Court said: "It is a shame, it is a shame; if this man has worked forty years, pay him forty years. When they made a decision like this, they had to make a law, pay pensioners in the past. In 1980, in 1990, all retired pensioners will be paid, but I will not give interest to the pensioner, Mr. Finance Minister. This officer says I don't benefit from salary hikes. The reason why he doesn't give interest to pensioners is because interest is forbidden to usury and Riba. It's not the idea, because they're giving interest all over the place. When he's a pensioner, if he doesn't pay for three days, he chokes on interest, but there's no interest on pension. It was so that there were places between 50 and one lira to be paid, but the opposition from Allah rebelled, and a 50-dollar subband came in; this is the money to be paid for the pension. Where's the one that's not retired? No taxes, no pictures, no tuition. What is it? They're traveling internationally, bringing them to Turkey. There's already an affinity for shipping, an affinity for shipping. We also know that most of the children of those who run the Republic of Turkey at the top are engaged in this shipping work. And they're very successful, I'll say, but I wish the public hadn't had their finger on them, and their success had been their own. Now, fellas, look, the bag is the law... for example, a piece of the law: the land and land sales of municipalities were the exception of VAT, as long as they were staying two years. Now they've lifted the terms of these two years, so if one day he buys it, one day he sells it, he's a real estate agent, private companies that work with municipalities and municipalities won't pay VAT. Now, in the private sector, the builders are bleeding out, the construction industry is down, they're all going to pay 8 per cent VAT, but the municipalities and municipal companies will not pay VAT for urban transformations. What kind of justice is that, dear friends? Then raise it to everyone. If this VAT is bad, you're getting VAT even in the shroud, get rid of everyone. So what is this exception that you bring to your friends in the city and the reeds? Now, they've brought tax exemption. Who? To educational foundations. Treasure land will be given to these foundations for forty-nine years, free of charge, to private educational foundations. Who's in it? There's the Ensar Foundation, there's the TORGAV Foundation, there's other foundations, but we're saying, brother, you're not being equal. We told the Finance Minister three and a half hours on the Commission, and they can't explain what foundation you gave them. The state's national educational policy was entrusted to these foundations, and then the rapes exploded, and we were blushing.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0170par0353	Oh, my...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0168par0354	We burned our lungs. In the fire at Aladağ, the little girls were burned. Yeah, it's government business, guys. That's why we pay taxes to this government, so that we can trust our children to the government to build schools, to build dorms. But you've learned it from the Fetullahists of some of the foundations you love, and you've entrusted the poorest, most successful children of Anatolia to the Fetullahians, who have already called it a golden generation, to all of them today. You say yourself -- now, you're making the same mistake from your own foundations. Come on, let the government do it, you run the government. Don't be so shy of the government. Why are you doing this to private foundations? Not only that, there's a TOKI operation. Now, Mr. Secretary says that banking is where we're most successful. You're very successful there because you're paying terrible interest on foreign banks. And it's a public financial administration. Now, look, look at the arrangement. Now, this TOKI... there was a real estate bank, and we had some very valuable land in the real estate bank. The land in this real estate bank, they took the land out of it, and they took it away, and they handed it over to the Real Estate Investment Partnership, and the real estate bank was broke. The real estate bank owes its debt to TOKI, toKİKİL Bank of Real Estates, to the treasure of the real estate Bank, $1 billion, 200 million. Now they're making a judgment, without linking this $1 quadrillion to the budget's revenues and expense pens -- so it's called an accounting trick -- and they're evaporating it out of the budget and transferring resources to TOİKI. Yohu, there's Section 5018 of Public Financial Management and Control, 13/f, he says you can't do this unofficially. I thought you said there was financial discipline. How can you take away Parliament's budget? What is it? The public financial administration is very good. How can you say such a thing? Besides, the land and land from that TOKI, which I said just now -- they took it out of the real estate bank -- who did they belong to? They were your employees. You know, the housing aid, the KEYs, now that this government is out, we've paid the KEYs, we've paid the KEYs. Do you think he paid for his father's welfare? They pursued all the plots of land, which were in return for the help of building a dwelling. Moreover, they lowered the price of the land and raised the construction costs of their followers while they were going after their followers. There's a court report on the loss of $774 million in seven projects. Now, the number of these projects has arrived, there are 200-220 projects, over 10 billion frauds. They gave the people who did it a warning. Now, they say that we are very successful in public financial management. WE paid for the KEY. Did you pay for your father's benefit? You ate the men's land, which is worth 390 trillion at 1999 prices, if you bring it to today, it's worth 15 quadrillion dollars when you put the land value on it. Give it to the employee. They paid the employee $2.3 billion in KEY money, drank their land. And it came to pass, that the ancient governments robbed you, and took away the people from you. Now that we've brought it, we've paid for your KEY. Now, they brought it, look, there's a verdict on the insurance thing, and the verdict says that the original part of the damage payment has to be used by insurance companies, according to the existing legislation. It gives you the right to use spare parts or exit parts. Now, let's look at these insurance companies, whose insurance companies are these? 90% of them are foreigners, aren't they? Who's insured? Our native and national people. Who should be protected by the government, which has always said that it is local and national? The locals and the nationals need to protect our people who insured his car, his house, his life, his residence. Who's he protecting? Foreign insurance companies. What price did these foreign insurance companies raise? He's got a bonus on the original parts. Tak's changing a law, insurance companies will now wear native or dating parts when people's cars crash. And they say to us, "Don't you want the local industry to develop, to develop the side industry next to the original industry? Are you trying to trick us? Bring in incentives, provide tax ease, support this industry. You're going to con the insured, you're going to wire the insurance companies, you're going to transfer them to foreign insurance companies, you're going to sell it to us as local and national. And we bought it. People have one car, the car costs 2,000 lira, the insurance costs 3,000 liras. Now, it says that we also have to protect insurance companies. Those insurance companies made 1.5 quadrillion profits in the first nine months of 2016, 90 percent foreign. You said you were local and national, so why don't you protect the locals and nationals, gentlemen, and protect the insurance companies? Guys, that's not how you make a law. Look, they brought 19 laws into a bag, and you can't get one conviction in favor of a citizen. The Loan Guaranteed Fund...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0171par0360	But you're telling your parents, tell us the truth, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0168par0361	Financial management put money in the budget for $25 billion. Parliamentaries, the budget is yours. What's the source of this 25 billion lira? Where do you cut it from? He's not saying anything. As much as 25 billion dollars is a con man... 250 billion... he'll get credit, he'll go, he'll deposit it in the bank, the sheep will pass through here, they'll collect the wool of those sheep; 25 billion, 250 billion; and we've swallowed it. Where do you put that 25 billion lira, what's the source? He didn't put in his source. The economy's going into crisis, the Credit Guarantee Fund -- collateral for all of this -- where are you going to cut it, cutting it out of education, cutting it out of health? That's why they're bringing in the bag law so we don't have to talk about it, because the opposition will talk for ten more seconds. They put democracy and law and justice in a bag, and one day they'll put you in a bag. Bye.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0172par0365	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. The talks on the entire bill for groups, individuals and the government are over. Members of parliament, there is now a motion issued on the entire bill according to Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that talks on the general scope of Law Bill 446 will be carried out according to Article 72 of the Council of Parliament. Free Private Tulip Carabinieri Kazım lion Zechariah Hazisel Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0173par0379	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit03spe0172par0380	Before we put the motion to a vote, there's a request for a roll call, and I'll do the roll call. Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Cleanel, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yım, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Şenal Özdemir, Mr. Sennal Sarıhan, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Tikin, Mr. Akadun. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit04spe0172par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the motion to continue the talks submitted under Article 72 of the Interior Charter. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I submit the motion to continue negotiations to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0172par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The entire bill will now be asked and answered for 20 minutes. Half that time will be used for questions and half for answers. I'm starting the interrogation process. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0174par0008	Don't make a mistake.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0175par0009	We were before that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0174par0010	There was a previous list, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0176par0011	Sir, I said Mr. Aydın. There's no hesitation.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0177par0012	But the line was different, Mr. President; the previous row was very different. There must have been a change there.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0176par0013	Mr. Arslan, please...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0178par0014	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0176par0015	The guys who hacked into the system will be asking questions. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0178par0017	Sir, I'm asking you to come in next time, and you'll have no problem with that. Mr. Secretary, there are over 25 million citizens in debt to the banking system. The citizen's debt reached $6.6 billion in 2002 and reached 403 billion in September 2016. The citizen's debtor either lost his job or was unable to pay his debt. The citizen's dwelling, transportation, and need loans were $2.3 billion in 2002, and came to $324 billion today. The credit card debt reached 82 billion euros from 4.3 billion. This painting of debt also defines politics. Do you have any plans to get the citizen out of debt like this? Will a record pardon be the answer to that? We're waiting for your answers. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0179par0020	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0180par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. You announced that you would lend $50,000 to the shop over COSGEB, but it was almost torture to apply for it, it was a complete disgrace, the computer system didn't work, it couldn't go online. There's no telling who's gonna take advantage of this loan. Not even enough information from the agency's offices. It's a perception that it's a loan for every tradesman. The merchant who filed the case was disappointed. In Giresun, where there are 14,000 registered tradesmen, over 5,000 tradesmen have barely applied, but only 71 people have been able to benefit from this loan because you set such a criteria that such a tradesman doesn't need credit anyway. His record's clean, he's paid off his loan, he hasn't been followed? We want this loan to be extended, and we want its conditions and criteria to be arranged to satisfy trade victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0181par0024	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0182par0025	I'm asking the Finance Minister: who and whom have been paid in large infrastructure projects as part of public-private co-operation projects, what kind of commitments have been made to? Also, I'm asking the Minister of Energy: there's been a lot of power outages lately, production businesses and factories have had to shut down their businesses. It's a fact that the damage is great. When will these long cuts end? Two: It was determined by the Chamber of Electrical Engineers, where energy was wasted, not by the lack of winter hours, but by the fact that the economy was slow and the temperatures were in seasonal conditions. Do you plan to apply winter hour to this painting that has emerged? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0183par0029	Mr. All? No. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0184par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you find it only fair that even Murat 124, who is now 14 to 15 years old in Turkey, is taxed in the language of the people, who is referred to as "Hadji Murat (Hadji 124), should receive no taxes, no tuition from foreign flagmen at the Turkish flag crossings, and by the way, those yachts should be taken to the farmer's tractor at 4.70? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0185par0034	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0186par0035	Mr. President, first of all, peace, democracy and secularism for my country is my greatest wish. Mr. Secretary, you've changed our national income from 718 billion to 859 billion by trading TÜİK accounts in one night with an arrow pocus. My question to you is: can you increase pensions, civil servants, and minimum wage increases with the same reading pocus and reduce food, electricity, water, transport increases? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0187par0038	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0188par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you two questions in recent General Assembly studies. One was related to the reduction of disability rates in the Finance Ministry of disabled people who wanted to retire, and on what basis does the Ministry of Finance drop it? And you said, "We're working with the Ministry of Health." You said, "We're working with the Ministry of Health." I want to know what's the latest on this. I asked you again, Minister. When I asked you, I don't know anything about it, let me check it out, and I'll get back to you on it. While you're here, I'd like to repeat that question, do you have any work on non-veter-counters? Also, what is the reason why general health insurance premiums that are not taken from Syrian people are taken from disabled, unemployed citizens, and will an arrangement be made? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0189par0044	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0190par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, a few days ago, two of our young people, Ayşegül Basağ and Hamit Çeşkaya, are going to a coffee shop in Istanbul on the grounds that they're promoting secularism, and they're giving a speech on the importance of secularism. Then they put their talks on social media. They're being taken into custody immediately. Yesterday we heard that these two brothers and sisters, our friend, were arrested. We thought you understood on July 15th how dangerous sectarianism was, and we thought you'd change your mind about secularism. However, your applications show that no progress has occurred, no improvements will occur. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why can't the point of regression be secularism? Since when is it a crime to defend secularism?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0191par0050	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0192par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are a lot of issues related to the budget, including the OVP, such as agricultural support, that need to be changed after the national revenue-calculation series has changed. Has there been a study of these as the Ministry of Finance? If it's being done, I'd like to know where it's at. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0193par0054	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0194par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there has been a great natural disaster in Mersin. Have you made a decision in the Council of Ministers to declare Mersin a disaster zone? Do you plan on helping these farmers with cash? Our farmers want to restructure their debt to the Agriculture Bank and private banks, do you have a plan? We also have thousands of people working as seasonal workers, especially in packaging and cold storages, mostly because they are farm workers, from Adana to Antalya. We're going to make an arrangement, and we're going to inspect these facilities, and we're going to expect these people to be put out of harm's way. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0195par0060	Mr. Kamil Aydın...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0196par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we're talking about the power cuts now, but, you know, the Eastern Anatolian region is going through heavy winter conditions, especially Erzurum, believe me, I remember going to the plane at night -- minus 32, 34, 38; 42. The people of Erzurum want good news. Look, today, kotras, yachts, here, sir, gold, diamonds, that's what they were when they were thinking about tax reductions, while we were struggling with natural gas prices in eight months of Erzurumian year, could we give them some good news? At least they're waiting for good news at the point where they're going to destroy the OTV. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0197par0064	Mr. Tekin... there is no Mr. Tekin. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0198par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the individual pension system that we're going to discuss in the bag of legislation today. The mandatory individual pension system would mean a 3 per cent reduction in wages against the employees' will, and nearly half of the minimum wage increase will be cut. As you may recall, Mr. Secretary, the main reason for the mandatory BES is that the austerity rates were low, but in a report released on December 2016, Turkey's gross savings rate was 24.8 per cent, but due to the draft of the mandatory individual pension system, the savings rate was 15.6 per cent. Naturally, the implementation of the BES is still valid, and what are the savings rates that are currently available? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0199par0069	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0200par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, we are now removing a very comfortable visa for those with this ship, yacht, boat, so we're contributing to tax, money. However, because of the extreme pollution of the environment in our province -- because of the extreme pollution of the environment in our Düzce province -- we don't have a natural gas storage system, and even though we paid for it, this natural gas stays in either Russia or Iran. Would it not be more beneficial if we sold it to the people of Düzce at a lower price, and the Düzceli also lived in a healthy, balanced environment? Because, at the same time, since we're making it easier for the yacht, for the boat, for tax purposes, for the Düzceli, for the sake of social justice, can't we give them the same discount? Two: there are associations that don't pay tuition when they're suing Turkey, there are foundations, there are institutions. Like asset services, how many are they? Until today...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0201par0075	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0200par0076	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0201par0077	I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0079	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Aydın gave me some figures on his debt to these households in general. There has been an increase in debt rates in recent years, but when you put Turkish household debt rates in international comparisons, Turkey's household debt rate is still low, I'll tell you that in particular. In this period, in the last 14 years, there has been an increase in the debt of the household, especially in recent years, but there has been a significant increase in the assets of the household, I might add. I also expressed in my initial speech, especially in the case of a record pardon, that we believe that after the provision of registration will be enforced by our banks in a facilitating way, especially based on not paying off debts, such as a background check, a bond. Together with our banks, a joint study of this arrangement was carried out with the Turkish Union of Banks. We'll be able to restructure our current debt by taking advantage of the international norms on one side of the arrangement, and they'll be able to overcome the problems they face in access to credit due to record records from the past. Hopefully, as soon as the law comes out, we'll do something about it, together with our banks and the Banks Association, in a common understanding, in a framework that will facilitate implementation. Mr. Bektasoglu, there are some problems with the KOSGEB applications, as I understand it, from the system. Of course, it may not have been expected at first, but there was a busy application by our citizens, and in all our provinces, a large number of our citizens have applied to KOSGEB to take advantage of this loan. Here, of course, there have obviously been some difficulties, as an administrative application is not expected by such a number. But I do know that our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology is working on this matter with KOSGEB. Let's hope we can go through these setbacks. Our Prime Minister has already expressed it today. I really think that we can quickly eliminate the setbacks that arise in this program, where our tradesman is in great demand. Mr. Arslan, we can make different assessments on the arrangements for public-private cooperation, of course, depending on where we look at it, but public-private cooperation models in many countries around the world are a model that allows public services, public investments, faster, and more in the private sector. Turkey has actually had serious experience with the Ministry of Health's urban hospitals project first. Later, these projects are successfully implemented in bridge and highway projects. Here, of course, as a government, we are following a perspective that monitors the balance between making investment with normal budget opportunities and doing it through a public-special cooperation project. Our Ministry of Development, our Undersecretary of Treasury, our relevant institutions make decisions on these projects by combining the long-term sustainability of these projects, the cost-effective analysis, the sharing of the risk. I hope that in the middle and long term, these projects will be commemorated successfully, both in terms of the benefits it brings to the public services presentation and in terms of the artifacts that have been given to Turkey. These projects are rational projects in Turkey, we need to make them more common, but what's critical here is transparency, accountability. As the Finance Ministry, we have put in place a series of amendments that began in 2015, starting with the accounting of both commitments and commitments to public-private co-operation projects in this sense, the accounting of burdens and risks, the reporting of them in international standards, tracking them, monitoring them. In this framework, we always care, that Turkey's fiscal reporting should be in line with international standards. We've already established a framework in line with international standards, where public-private co-operation projects can be reported, and there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, we have to be transparent, we have to form a transparency framework. We're doing what we have to do about it, so let me put it this way. I'm going to have to ask Mr. Secretary about those matters regarding the Department of Energy, if that's all right with you. Mr. Yım, we said that the arrangement for ships and yachts is not a general arrangement for the naval sector, that we bring these arrangements to other countries' ship registrations because of cheap operating costs, even though there are more than three-sided ships and yachts that belong to our citizens.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0203par0087	How many citizens do we have here, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0088	And we support our farmers very seriously. Regarding the latest diesel support, Mr. Prime Minister has also announced that we will be able to cover 50% of the gas expenditures our farmers made in 2017 from the state budget starting at the beginning of 2018. We've always been there for our farmer under budget, and we'll continue to be there for him. Mr. Bassman has made an assessment of the TİK accounts, and I will not use the same concepts. But, as I look at the framework of the statement after the Turkish Statistical Agency has made these statements, the assumptions that it is based on, the assumptions that it is based on, as the minister of the methodology myself, what are the hesitations expressed in the arrangement here? When I look at it, everyone makes different assessments, but there's one common point that everyone agrees with, and that's: Yes, Turkey's Statistical Society has done it in accordance with international norms, which are in accordance with these rules. You don't believe me? That's what I'm saying. I mean, we're here to see the Turkish Statistical Agency...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0204par0091	You started without saying anything.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0205par0092	We believe, Mr. Minister, we believe, and so do the people.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0093	No, it's not, no, I'm telling you this: Turkey's Statistical Agency's greatest security is its credibility.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0204par0094	Minister, you said it before we said anything, you panicked.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0095	This institution, the Turkish Statistical Institution, is a guarantee for all of us; it must do so without any influence or influence whatsoever. As a matter of fact, in accordance with ESA 2010 standards, he used international methodologies to do so again in line with international norms. Here are statements made by the Turkish Statistical Agency. One: additional new data sets have been obtained to the data used earlier. For example, when the Statistical Agency was unable to access the Finance Ministry's records when they were doing national revenue calculations earlier, the protocol between the two institutions was reached; the scope of the data has been expanded; its methodology is in line with international standards. So I've been looking at comments from time to time, technical comments, there's some assessments of sub-pencils, especially the rapid increase of investment spending, especially the focus of upgrades over the last three years. But TÜİK also makes very professional technical statements about it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0204par0097	Minister, there's no comment on my question, I just asked if you could do it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0098	But we don't have any hocus-pocus as Finance, so if the officer's wages are up, the numbers are here, if their pensions are up, the numbers are here, the farmer...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0204par0100	If there's more electricity here, if there's more diesel here, if there's more water here...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0206par0101	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0102	So there's no hocus-pocus, I'll tell you that, citizen's happiness.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0207par0103	Bravo!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0104	Mr. Kaplan, we're working on the disability rate. So in my own Ministry, I think we should review that board there, and I believe in it. I didn't get the full answer on the second question, and I'm going to get the information from you and I'm going to answer it again. Mr. Özdish, our Prime Minister has made it very clear that we're in a state of law, we can't condemn anyone in the first place, we can't declare no one innocent in the first place. You've made a very good statement, and there's a legal process in this area, and we need to look at the actions of both the judiciary and the prosecution in regard to the crimes against people in the legal process. It would be wrong for me to say anything there. Mr. Kusoglu, after the revision of national income accounts, of course, the macroeconomic indicators and budget indicators in the table that we put in the program in the medium-term program, and according to this, need to be reviewed. The year has begun, hopefully, at the appropriate time, along with the Department of Development, the Undersecretary of Treasury, because as a result, we will create the compass of the economy based on these basic macroeconomic indicators. Mr. Lightning, of course there was a great disaster in Mersin. I wish the people of Mersin well. There was a loss of life, God rest his soul, my condolences. But rest assured, Mersin, let our people know that all the wounds there will be covered. From the first moment our Minister went there, our AFAD President went there. They called me, and I said, whatever it takes... whatever it takes, I gave my friends instructions.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0208par0109	Send money, Minister, send money.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0110	No, no, I told you about the money, and I told you about the money. I mean, God forbid we can't bring back those who can, but as a state, as a government, we're going to use all our resources to the fullest. In other places, there are occasional disasters.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0209par0112	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0202par0113	Erzurum, I know about this because I'm from Bayburt, so we need to talk about it. Mr. Özdemir has been forced to... look, no one's getting paid in the mandatory BES system. Here, in the mandatory BES system, we don't reduce people's wages, we keep $100 of their wages two months in a bank account that's been opened in their name. At the end of the second month, a person can take his savings back with his nemesis. It's not right for him to say that there's a reduction in people's wages. Austerity rates in Turkey have increased according to recent statistics, but investment rates in Turkey have also increased. What matters to us is the investment-cost balance in terms of economic stability, which means the current is open. So in recent updates, our sensitivity to the current explanation continues. Where savings rates come up, investment rates come up. So as Turkey, we always have to save more. There's no hesitation here. Mr. Tanal said some very nice things about environmental sensitivity, and I agree with him.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0210par0118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 15th article. I'll meet your demands on chapter one. The first talk on behalf of the groups will be made on behalf of the National Movement Party Group by İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0211par0127	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the first chapter of Bill 446. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Political and social developments will also negatively affect economic life if the security-dimensional process in our country is not well managed and the basic structural problems that exist remain remain unresolved. Turkey's economy is unable to register a stable and high rate growth. Although it is expressed to be dependent on external impacts, the runt-based approach in economic policies is causing a distance from production, an increase in unemployment and poverty. Unfair taxes, young unemployment, unregisteredness and social life distortions have become a threat to social reconciliation dynamics. According to yesterday's data, annual inflation was 8.53 per cent in TÜFE, while 9.94 per cent in ÜFE. The TÜFE rate was 1.64 per cent in December, while the TFE rate was 2.94. The higher costs in producer prices mean that the higher rates in consumer prices for the next months may be high. According to the Turkish Exporters' Assembly data, our exports in 2016 declined by 1.2 per cent compared to last year to $142.1 billion. As is known, imports, intermediaries and raw materials in the manufacturing industry are over 50%. The fact that the increase in currency raises import input prices at the same rate also reflects production costs. In addition, frequent power outages lead to the failure of production, raising unit costs. In the early years of the new year, my electoral district has a negative impact on the production and exports of electricity in Istanbul. Electric blackouts in Dudullu, Tiktelli, Gebze and Circeşeköy organised industrial areas have caused production to cease at around 40,000 workplaces and to become unable to produce about 300,000 workers. This has caused setbacks in the delivery of long-term products and has become an important cost factor. In addition, many districts of Istanbul are affected by the blackout, and there are major problems in homes, workplaces, hospitals and traffic due to the cuts. I'd like to stress that this problem must be quickly resolved to a permanent solution without creating any more casualties. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing consists of different issues. The meeting of the bill, which includes the issues that should be discussed in several commissions, in a bag of legislation, in the Plan and Budget Commission, disrupts the study of the issue in all its dimensions and prevents the creation of a healthy assessment and conviction. There is no doubt that the work of legislation, which is carried out regardless of carelessness, lacks and subliminal legislation, also reduces the quality of legislation. We also find positive reviews of the provision for social support, improving the investment climate, increasing production and employment, and the provision for paying bonuses for our pensioners for more than 30 years. So far, we've supported proposals in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for investment, production, increased employment, providing work and food for our nation, and we've come up with constructive proposals in line with our party policies. However, in order to overcome the social and economic problems Turkey is involved in, it is imperative that it take steps to establish a healthy investment, production and employment chain, while implementing effective counterterrorism, predictable legal order and good public administration reform. If comprehensive, integrated regulations are not made, the bag will not be possible to reveal healthy and permanent solutions with the law. As it is known, the Constitutional Court's decision dated January 7th, 2015 was cancelled in the account of the pension bonus, which will be given in the first sentence of Article 89 of Article 5434 of Article 89, and will not be considered for more than thirty practical service years. With the cancellation decision in effect, it was possible to pay pension bonuses for pensioners for more than 30 years after January 7, 2015. In this direction, as the National Movement Party, we've taken the matter to the agenda of Parliament using means of control, and we've tried to compensate our pensioners by offering law proposals, but so far our attempts have not responded. However, if a regulation in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision had been brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey much earlier, it would have been preventable for those who have the rights to appeal to the judiciary, but would have been prevented by the institution's judicial costs due to these lawsuits, which appear to have resulted in the results of the case against the Social Security Agency. In this late arrangement, the failure to update payments has disappointed the expected large pensioners. The commission's motion to pay 50 lira per year, not less than 100 lira per year, was not sufficient in this sense. As the National Movement Party, our motion to update bonus payments and pay them today on the basis of coefficients has unfortunately been rejected. A righteous approach, however, requires a calculation linking the amount of bonuses received on the day of retirement with the power of purchase on that date. Again, the fact that no interest will be employed for the payments below $7,500 means that this arrangement will be at a level that will be considered useless to those involved. For example, since the annual difference for all servants who had retired before 2008 is less than 100 lira, thousands of pensioners will be paid 1 00 lira. However, if it had been updated the way we suggested, the same pensioner would have been paid $2.192 per year. It's the same for a lot of retired officers. Therefore, paying our pensioners to be updated will be a requirement of the understanding of reason, law and justice. In addition, the fact that those who have filed a lawsuit will be paid by legal interest from the date of the administrative application, resulting in different bonus figures for those who press charges and those who do not open them, and whether interest is paid or not, will lead to inequality. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to mention a few issues in the bill: The application of home care allowance for disabled persons is envisioned for abandonment of over-paid and interest rates, excluding payments made due to the use of actual documents and health board reports. We find this arrangement for the disabled to be positive, but we consider that it will not eliminate the fundamental problem. Because the problem is the application of family income in the monthly grant. According to us, monthly bonding must be based on the disability's own income. Another issue concerns vehicles that have been adopted against customs legislation. It is in accordance with the law that those who bring in vehicles that have been brought into the country illegally should be held responsible for this irregularity. Under the arrangement, the citizens who bought the vehicles without knowledge are being associated with this irregularity, facing a payment obligation, causing a new victimization. On the other hand, some regulations in the bill allow for the transfer of property belonging to the treasury and public institutions to specific foundations. As it is known, Turkey has been discussing how students should be sheltered recently due to negative events and developments in student dorms belonging to foundations and associations. In our opinion, it is imperative that the government provide us with a capacity that any student who wants it can have. On the other hand, the free exchange of places still owned by treasure and public institutions suggests concern that public resources can be transferred to certain foundations through private relations. An openness to this concern and an allocation of participant understanding are not in the draft. Finally, we want the ease brought specifically to ships and sailors to be provided to our truckers, the bus, the bus, and the driver who drives a taxi. With these thoughts, I wish you all the best of the bill, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0212par0146	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0213par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is the third and fourth bag since November 1st. The government is constantly taking measures to correct the economy in such a panic. It's given the world a lot of incentive to improve the investment climate. So that he gave up all the taxes, gave up all the land. It's come to a point where we build the business, take it, and don't pay taxes for ten years. It's brought it to a point. It's not enough, we're looking at a new bag. The name was actually very interesting. The Law on Retirement and Some Laws and Laws -- I mean, aside from the length of it, it feels like there's something being done about pensioners, but these changes in 19 laws don't bring much to pensioners, small incomes -- they're still coming for the good ones. I'm particularly surprised by the changes made to ship owners, yacht owners, cotra owners. One pulls out, and the other brings it back. What's going on? That's the situation. Dear friends, this patch doesn't hold a bundle, it doesn't really hold a bundle; no matter what you do, it doesn't work. So much so, despite all the changes that have been made, the economy is not going well again. In fact, the goal, you know, the economy will recover, the investment climate will improve, so they were brought in with arguments that would increase employment, but they didn't. Look, the data is in the middle, Turkey has been shrinking, shrinking since the last three quarters, Turkey. Studies and projections on the fourth quarter show that the work is not very good. Now, the TÜİK figures have just been discussed, the increase in national income has been discussed; indeed, Mr. Secretary, here, I am the guarantor. Everything that is said here is true. Mr. Minister, there is no savings in Turkey, you even offered it as an excuse for the laws you brought about this issue, but now you say that TÜİK has done good things. If the savings rate in Turkey really is 25 percent, what are the numbers we have? Mr. ministers, whoever is dating, government officials are always comparing 2002 to 2016. So let me compare it to you: the total of the 2002 state's internal debt is $2242.7 billion; 2016, $677.7 billion. The stockpile of domestic debt is $149.9 billion; 2016, $440 billion. December 2002 foreign debt stock is 129 billion dollars; December 2016, 406 billion dollars. These are going away. There are some really bad numbers, especially about the private sector. The private sector's foreign loan has risen from 43 billion dollars to 289 billion dollars. It's not just these, but the interest payments, the money collected in the current account, is 600 billion dollars. The interest is paid. There's over 60 billion dollars in privatisation, and there's an economic picture. You've used $1 trillion of resources, dear friends, you've used 1 trillion in 15 years, and Turkey's economy is in crisis. If the same numbers come in the fourth quarter, the economy is really in crisis. My dear friends, good paintings are constantly drawn. Recently, just yesterday, I think, at the group meeting, Mr. Prime Minister came out, and after he told me about a very dusty painting, there were little problems, but we took precautions to solve all these problems. Mr. Bostanci, your measures are like Nasrettin Hoxha measures. You know, Hodja, he's got a lot to take in, he's got a lot on his plate. There's a barbed wire in front of the house, and there's sheep, and wool, and we're gonna run it, and we're gonna sell it, and we're gonna laugh. The man will go mad, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh. That's your situation. Now you're saying that we're creating a 250 billion-dollar resource. We've asked the Minister several times in the Plan and Budget Commission: what kind of a source is this, how is this, where is this money? Here, 25 billion TL... well, where is it? There's no such thing, no loans, no resources, no budgets, nothing like that. So there's a credit guarantee coming in, and you're going to have to make it very clear to people. In the same way, you're going to tell people that the amnesty you brought with this arrangement is not really a record pardon. Maybe you're trying to create a psychological environment, but it could result in disappointment. A lot of people are bankrupt, they're in trouble, and they're going to go to banks, so let's make up our remaining debts, new loans, they're going to say, my dear friends, they're going to be disappointed. There are changes in the laws of the law in many different articles related to this law. One of them, very important, remarkable, is that the public cannot move, land, and even shores, and valleys can be given to a number of foundations for forty-nine years free. My dear friends, the most important problem with you is really your sense of power, your politics. And your politics are based on my savings and judgment. To gain status by public means, by state means, by means of means, by means of state means, by means of means, by means of savings, by means of one step, by means of those who are left behind. This is the fundamental problem; this is actually the fundamental problem of Turkish politics, and you have the same disease. However, the main purpose of politics is justice, my dear friends, the safety of everyone, the bread, the prosperity of everyone, and the freedom of everyone. Well, that's the way it works, but unfortunately, it's not. My dear friends, I'm going to read you a brief paragraph. One of them says that in our power, an economic stability, a competitive market structure has been established, a sustainable development environment has been captured, a vision of Turkey, which is a righteous distribution of its blessings, of poverty and corruption, of free and prosperous people living in peace with the modern world, integrated with the modern world, not as a source of conflict, but as a source of wealth, and with that understanding contributing to the construction of a new world, and in a world like this, there will be a dignity, democratic, the East and the West. In 2002, I'll give you the exact date, November 16, 2002. Who do you think told him? The chairman of the Justice and Development Party at the time told him. So, guys, what are we talking about right now, what are we doing, where's Turkey going? Everyone asks where Turkey is going. The economy is there, the numbers are there, we're talking. Now, you can't even convince anyone of macroeconomic figures or anything; it's not just about the economy, it's about democracy, it's about peace, it's all about Turkey's international relations. Look, on June 7th, you never agreed to share power, you didn't share power because you use politics as an instrument of savings and judgment. If you did politics for everyone's safety, everyone's freedom, everyone's bread, you'd share the power. Then what did you say? How did you end up on November 1st? What you did on the way to November 1st was this: Sir, peace began to deteriorate in Turkey, terror started to rise, tensions started to rise, and the economy was not going well; so you said, "One party is needed." And you said, "There's nothing you can't do from that day, like before; you broke the rules, you violated the Constitution, you broke the Constitution, you filled bags, you brought bags, you brought everything." However, since November 1st, where has the economy come, where has democracy come, where is domestic peace, where is Turkey's international relations, where is terror, how many people have lost, all of them. Now, all of this wasn't enough, you're saying: one party management. My dear friends, I ask you now: you say, "One human rule." You say, "It didn't happen with the Parliamentary system." But someone comes out, tells us, the Parliamentary system blocked us there. No, you did everything. There's already an actual presidential system going on. However, there is instability in the economy in Turkey; however, there are problems with democracy, rights, freedoms; yet people are nervous; yet people do not see the future. Can I and my family live in this country, after ten years, in their own way of life, in their own ways, in their own identity, in a comfortable way? Is there such a future really exist? My dear friends cannot answer the question. Turkey faces very serious problems, challenges. This package actually shows it clearly, and the package that came before this actually shows clearly. Seriously, the patch doesn't hold anymore, no matter what you do, the patch doesn't. Here's what to do, my dear friends: you're going to ask how we got here, and you're going to answer that, and you're going to make structural decisions that need to be made in democracy, rights, freedoms, and economics, and then maybe Turkey will be right. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0214par0164	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0215par0168	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Law and Law Act of the Republic of Turkey. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the AK PARTY has been in power for 14 years. We don't know about the previous legislatures, but officials who served in both the Prime Minister and the Government during the 26th Legislature -- as we have followed -- both in previous legislative times -- have declared that this will be the last time the legislation comes to parliament, that it will never come to Parliament again. In fact, the authority of law enforcement to make law in terms of the technique of law, the authority of this Parliament, which requires that members of Parliament have complete knowledge of every legal arrangement that comes to Parliament, so that the will of the people, the will of the citizen, is fully reflected in the law, so that the legal form that is crystallised in the law, is a reflection of the free will of the members of Parliament. But unfortunately, with a bag of legislation, both in terms of the lawmaking technique, it stands in the way that both the citizen's will is reflected in the law and that every member of parliament, by free will, will vote in favour of or against the legal arrangement in question. For example, there are 22 amendments to law and law laws in Bill 446 that come our way. Now, think about it, a law change that includes different areas that are subject to separate laws, some in a sentence, some in a paragraph, 22 law-compatible laws, 22 laws against each and every joke or item in the law; and that change remains to be compared with other elements of the fundamental law, which are not in conflict with each other in line with the law system, in the same parallel, a general and abstract arrangement that complements each other. I'm afraid that's not the case. Which, I believe, is 80 percent of the fellow lawmakers who are now in Parliament, are in no position to know the law and its position in the law that each of the 38 articles in this bag belong to the law. He can't possibly know that. What does this look like? We've got a basket in front of us, here's pears, oranges, tomatoes, tangerines, some walnuts, some nuts, whatever we can find, yeah, we're done, let's go. Look, just five months ago in this House, there was another arrangement in the form of a bag of laws, on July 15, 2016, under Mark Tax Act 480, and the Law of Taxes. Again, with that logic, that logic, he was passed in a bag of legislation. The law has been adopted, especially because lawmakers are the majority of the ruling party, but the government, which brought this law into a bag of legislation, has only been able to endure this arrangement for five months. Five months later, he has to rearrange his own legal arrangement. Dear friends, the laws that this Parliament must make are not five months old, but three months old, not one year old, general, abstract and non-responsive, concerned with all the people and truly expressing the will of citizens consciously, but unfortunately we don't see it. What's in the title of the law? Retirement Ark Law. There is only one amendment to the Law on the Retirement Chest. So, is the ruling party changing this change as consent, voluntarily changing it? Does he really love pensioners so much that he can give the pensioners the good news that they're being used right now? No, he has to. Because hundreds of pensioners, because they're victims, because they're suing them, because they're suing hundreds of cases, and because the Supreme Court's annulment is under the jurisdiction of hundreds of cases, pensioners are going to make serious money because courts are not going to fire pensioners with $50 like the arrangement here, and they're going to hand over what they really deserve. There's only one thing the government has to do in order to intercept this, and in light of the Constitutional Court's annulment, is to make this legal arrangement... In the face of the Supreme Court's indictment, the government, who made this legal arrangement in the face of the annulment, is trying to save capital with a change in the 22 laws and legislation, with this arrangement, which seems to be in favour of the only pensioners. In an increasingly inextricable crisis in Turkey, to rescue certain capital groups with a legal change in handing over subsidiary capital or address, in this crisis, public resources from tax, tax, laborer, poorer, and poorer will be transferred to these parts in some way. Dear friends, in terms of procedure, this law is against the law, the law-making technique. Look, in this law, there's basically more than one division commission in the existing regulations. These specialisation commissions, as covered by the content of the substances, are bypassed by the commissions where the MPs will be informed, and after this bypass will be brought to Parliament by a single commission, where special commissions such as Public Affairs, Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission, will examine them in detail and will be informed of them. Sure, there's a purpose here. What's the point? As the AKP has always done, by creating perceptions in the public's feelings, as if doing something good, by creating a perception in its title, as if it were an arrangement for pensioners, but in fact, under one clause, it's an arrangement to strengthen the equity that exists, but also by protecting them, to transfer public resources to these areas. We say that we will vote negatively because we believe that this arrangement is not in the interests of our people, the interests of workers, the interests of workers, the interests of workers, the interests of our people, and that this arrangement is entirely in the interest of capital and capital owners, and that it is in the direction of the government's advocacy companies.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0216par0177	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0217par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0216par0179	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0217par0180	The secretary made an argument, and he said, "I don't think the MPs here read this bill, and I don't think they understood anything about it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0218par0181	Some MPs... some MPs...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0217par0182	But that's especially what the ruling party says to the MPs, but we're all in Parliament.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0219par0183	Sir, I picked on them all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0217par0184	And I know I've read this bill, and I want a word for him because of this bullying.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0220par0185	Mr. Tanal, I'm sure Mr. Adıyaman has excluded you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0217par0186	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0221par0187	We know we read it. Not to mention the tradesmen's expectations, especially with a record pardon.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0222par0188	You've never understood, Osman. You've never understood.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0223par0189	Now, I'm going to make a pledge to the lawmakers who have asked for a personal word on chapter one. The first speaker on behalf of him is Shahap Kavacıoğlu, Bayburt MP. Here you go, Mr. Kavacioglu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0224par0193	Dear President, my esteemed deputies, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Act 446 rows and the Bill of Laws to Make Changes in Some Laws and Laws. First of all, I ask God's mercy to our fallen soldiers, to our citizens, to our citizens, who died on the night of New Year's Eve, to our citizens, and to our guests, who died in an armed attack on Reina. I hereby salute you all at this hour of the night. Now, when we look at it, it's what we talk about in the bag of legislation, especially in the Plan Budget, and bring it up. Of course, however, most importantly, the measures that Turkey has experienced in the past six or seven months have been based on chaos that has been created as a result of the trials that have been tried to bring Turkey to life have taken place primarily in the bag of legislation. At the beginning, of course, of course, in the bag law, our most important decisions have been made especially in the financial sector, especially in the wake of events after July 15th, when economically, Turkey was forced into a vortex and trying to create trouble. Most important of all, decisions made at the recent Economic Co-ordination Board. Important decisions have been made to keep Turkey's economy very alive. In the previous talks, we discussed this in Plan Budget as well, especially in reviews of the sources they said were the most important speakers and where will they be found? This, of course, was made from guaranteed funds made with a smaller amount in the previous 2008 crisis, resulting in positive results. Now, this time it's 250 billion. Here, this source, created by the Credit Guarantee Fund bail, is what we've always said is that, in particular, the SMEs are underprivileged because of their lack of collateral, that they're suffering at the point of access to the loan, that the Loan Guarantee Fund bail should be put on the agenda. The source created here is only about 17.5 billion in the Treasury. And the basic thing here is that when we think that all the loans are going to go down -- and there's nothing like that in banking -- it's neither the sudden withdrawal of all the deposits given, nor the assumption that the loans are going to go down completely, it's not the right approach. But then, in this source, again, when we look at the banking balance sheet, we see that there's about 400-450 billion more in the bank's passive, in the face of the use of a loan of about $1 billion,700 million. This, therefore, will provide an important resource for the development of these, so that when the collateral leg is taken care of, the SMEs will benefit from the tradesman's access point of credit. Again, particularly, when we look at Turkey's EXIMBANK loans right now, Turkey is sitting on the volume of $2.5 trillion and $8 trillion in trade, with an estimated population of about 1.5 billion in two or three hours of time. The capital of EXIMBANK is being increased in order to get a share of an estimated $18 trillion market. Again, the interest burden on loans related to foreign contractors will be fully covered by the Ministry of Economics. Again, loans to foreign contractors are being extended, in the same way. Thus, Turkey will contribute greatly to the real sector in the coming period, at the point of its growth as a result of these decisions. In particular, these companies that have been raised and built for two or three generations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is not the right approach to squandering these times. With these decisions being made, we'll be able to make sure that these firms maintain their best survival. On this occasion, again, I wish this law to be a blessing to our country, with all due respect.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0225par0204	Thank you, Mr. Kavacioglu. Second speaker on behalf of Master Erhan, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0226par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the QA, Mr. Finance Minister has just made some statements, again, about the GDP revisions of TÜİK. Actually, I promised to tell him something in response, but now the Minister's gone. Anyway, the Minister's gone, but we have a Minister. I, again, will express my views in the way I designed them. Now, Mr. Secretary, we're going to talk about the finance policy part -- it's going to be like a pehlivan tefrica now -- several times tonight. Guys, I'm sorry, because -- maybe there'll be friends who remember -- I remember talking to you two times for ten minutes, and we talked about it every once in a while. So, not as a politician, but as a technician, we have expressed our views here, not as a political issue, but as a technical issue. Right now, we haven't met anyone who's technically expressed it. Mr. Secretary says trust. Let's just trust that now, there's a lot of questions. Who will answer these questions? I'm going to talk about one of the motions in a second, and then maybe we'll get a little better at figuring it out. I mean, it's going to have such vital consequences that we're going to have to change all our policies. Now we see things that we used to call falling come up. I'll try to show them to you with graphics in a moment. Therefore, the TUK issue is very important. Look, all institutions are very important. We have repeatedly stated that we have to maintain the reputation of our institutions -- other friends -- that we have to be very sensitive to institutions, that the institutions are the ones that sustain countries. In fact, I told you, at a meeting at OECD, in 2009, when the global crisis was at its most intense, when America was going to sink, Mrs. Clinton said there: "We can overcome this crisis because we have powerful institutions. I mean institutions are such important issues, we see what institutions are doing in Turkey. Now, at least as a former technician, so as not to damage the reputation of TÜİK, as someone who worked very closely with TÜİK (TİK) -- it's the branch of the Ministry that I work for -- maybe 10 times I'm a phone contact with TİİK (TİİK) in my technician's time, so I know a lot of the friends there -- notice that we're making a very serious emphasis on the autonomy of TİİİK (TİTİK) -- and we're calling over and over and over and over and over and over again. So the issue of the credibility of the TÜİSK is important, but here, of course, the credibility of the TÜİK (TİK) is important, but the reputation of TÜİK (TİK) has to be as self-possessed as we are, and the government must have its own. Now, TÜİK has announced something new, and we're going to talk about the results as soon as we have time to talk about them, but it's really not acceptable, it's not understandable; it's incompatible with its own data. So the TİK says that it's revising growth. For example, friends, in no revision -- look at all the revisions back there -- there are some issues, so let's say some numbers are increased to a level. You're measuring something wrong, you're increasing them to a level, national income increases, but there are no radical changes in transitions from one year to the next. What was he doing, for example? Look, 1999... and I'm telling you that this series is broken inside itself. This place is very important, so the series is broken by the past series. So they've announced 2015 now that it's already been broken before 1998, but there's also a serious break in 1998-2105. Look, between 1998 and 2010, the change in national income growth -- so they're revising growths now -- only 0.1 points, year-on-year average. So it's understandable; it's an average change in growth by 0.1 points, but in the period after 2010 -- there's a problem there -- 2.7; you increase average growth every year. Look, it's not a national revenue increase, it's a 19.7 percent increase in the last year. 2.4 percent in the first year, the first year, you're doing a little bit of an increase like this, as a percentage, that's what you're doing in the last year. There's no revision like that. Why not? That makes sense. Because you're basing something on something you can't measure well, and sometimes you put it on the base, and things change a lot. So it shouldn't change too much since you've divided the two of them together. What's that? It's a little insignificant in the previous years, and then it became more important, and if something new came in, there could be little changes in growth numbers, that's all I'm trying to say. But TÜİK explained something that increases the growth of the last years by 2.7 points, and there's no difference in the growth of previous years. What's wrong isn't the previous years, but look, what's wrong is that the following years and the TÜİK are self-explained -- we call it credibility, but the TİİK has other statistics, they're all on the current statistical website, they're all conflicting with all of them, the series that TÜİK is now explaining. How are we supposed to trust this TÜİK? Employment series: Now, the relationship between employment and growth is the strictest. For example, in 2013, the TÜİK brings growth from 4.2 to 8.5. See the revision, from 4.2 to 8.5. In the same year, however, unemployment increases from 8.4 to 9. Will unemployment increase in a country of 8.5 growth? That's why you're...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0227par0216	Complete. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0226par0218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me, Mr. President. I hope you'll be the minister, sir. So what we need to do here is we're going to be able to figure out what kind of life-threatening problems this is going to cause for Turkey. I said Turkey lost its compass in a speech. In these TÜİK revisions, this country's economy has really lost its compass, and we're trying to find direction. Which way do we go? Are we going to increase the savings or not? What are our tax policies going to be like? I think Mr. Secretary should withdraw this bill because after these TİK revisions, some of the issues in this bill don't matter. All this needs to be looked at again. So these are the issues that we should be very careful about, and the reputation of the TÜİK (TİK) is the country's reputation, and it is very important in this regard. The other issue is that this is in terms of compliance with the international account system. Look, I'm telling you from the TÜİK (TİK)'s own statement: In 2012, the revision in national income is 10.8; only 0.7 points are due to international computation, friends. 10.1 points can't be explained in harmony with the international account system. After that, they come to us right away, and they say, "Sir, we have done this in harmony with the international account system." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0228par0224	Thank you, Mr. Master. End of discussion on chapter one. Now we're going to do a question-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. The first half of 15 minutes are reserved for questions and the second half for answers. I'm starting the interrogation process. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0229par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Have economic, financial impact analysis been done with this bill? If it's done, will you give me a copy of the report? I want it from the Ministry. Two: Does it not violate the principle of freedom of contract under Article 48 of the Constitution, the rule of legal security that states the state of the Republic of Turkey in Article 2 of the Constitution are the legal state of law? Question three: Under the 138th Article of our Constitution, the governing body cannot perform any regulation that can remove the effects of the judicial decisions. Aren't these effects on cases that have been filed, on cases that have been won, removed? Is it not against the 138th article of the Constitution? How many laws are regulated by this bill? Is there any way that the authorities can give us the details of this?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0230par0235	Mr. Kamil Aydın...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0231par0236	Mr. Minister, after the attempted murder of July 15th, a very intense issue has been set on the agenda of Turkey, which is a dilemma about the rights of our war mauls and veterans, as well as the rights of peace for their relatives, as well as their definitions and what assistance they will receive. There are often complaints about it. With the concept of a new vet after July 15th, we have Cyprus, we have Korea, and we have veterans in the fight against terrorism; they all have a common demand for a common pool, an equal, truly fair, and a right to be distributed, a right to pay and other life rights, to be made up of some kind of problem-solving beauty. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0230par0238	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0232par0239	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just couldn't get it. I'd like to repeat the question you're saying, it's related to the previous character's speech. We have citizens who were injured in the fight against terrorism who weren't considered veterans, close to 15,000. I've asked you in the last General Assembly talks, I don't know about this. But the Prime Minister said, "I've instructed seven ministries on this matter, it's being studied." He said, "Let me get information, and I'll return it to you like that." Now, if there's any progress on this and there's a study in your Ministry, I'd like to request information about it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0230par0241	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0233par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of Christmas, there was a decline in nut prices. 2015-2016 didn't go so well for the nut makers. Nuts are a national product, which also brings the most foreign currency to our country. Question: Do you have a nut policy for 2017? Are you still considering interfering with the falling price of nuts, or are you going to leave 502,000 nut makers alone with their fate? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0234par0246	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0235par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. On 1 January 2016, the minimum salary was $1,300, so about $490. The minimum salary on January 1, 2017 is $1,404, $390. There's about a $100 drop in last year, but we're going back, the $9,000 national income, with the increase in dollars, has been raised to $11,000 in revision, while the normal technical accounts say it's going down to $7,000. Do you believe that? Is this really how the national income has increased? If it's increased, why isn't it reflected in people who receive minimum wage? Would you care to make a statement about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0236par0250	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0237par0251	I'm asking the Minister of Finance, one: I want to know if it's a sign that our economy is getting better or worse, that dollars and euros are becoming more valuable in our country in a short time. Two: In the short term, our country owes nearly 200 billion foreign debt. Are there preparations to pay for this? Is it possible that this debt is reversible? Three: There are considerable reductions in production and investment due to many difficulties in our country. Are there measures taken by your Ministry to increase production and investment? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0238par0255	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0239par0256	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have shown 360 million in expenses in Article 1 of the report on the impact analysis of this bill, which was distributed during the discussion of the Plan and Budget Commission. Earlier, during the meeting of this bill at the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission in June, the Minister of Labour of the period announced the cost as 2 billion. Is 360 million true or 2 billion true? Thank you, I want an answer to that.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0240par0259	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0241par0260	Mr. Secretary, I just don't know if it's in the information or the general Turkish way. They've become hospitals in our naval districts that don't have specialists, they've had our old building hospitals built by supporters, they've had no doctors, they've had no doctors, they're new obstetricians, but they can't afford doctors like Çibril, they can't send a doctor to Akkent, and the heating system like Tavas is broken, so they're giving scarves to doctors and heaters to patients. When are these hospitals gonna be okay? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0240par0262	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0242par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy, is that your ministry does not allow about 1,500 people working under contract in important positions such as sociologists and psychologists. Some of our young people who are sometimes paid under the minimum wage don't have annual vacations or milk permits. They get paid 35 hours a week and work 40 to 40 hours. These people who do the same job as the staff and share the same table are 1,000-1. The staffers are 2,500-3 when they're paid $500. He's getting paid $ 000. When will you improve the working conditions of 1,500 people? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0243par0266	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0244par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know, the Osmangazi Bridge is about a year old. When it first opened, it was $35 plus VAT, it was $121, the current draft was 140, but after our reactions, it was moved to 89, and since yesterday, it's down to $65.65. I think that number is still too high. Small vehicles are supposed to be $20, big cars are supposed to be $40, so they can be random. My real question is, how much did you pay for this side when you opened up, from the state vault to the building company, Mr. Secretary, because of 40,000 vehicles a day?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0245par0270	Thank you, Mr. Yum. Now, I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0273	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Tanal, how many laws, how many laws have you changed in the legislation that is currently being discussed in the General Assembly? They raised a question as to how many provisions you've made? According to my information, we're making a change in this bill in 20 different laws and 2 laws. When we look at those who have stepped up from the changes that have been made here, there are regulations that concern large communities. We have arrangements for our pensions, we have regulations for employees, we have regulations for workers. There are arrangements for investment, production, export and employment. We've already been through this in departments. Mr. Aydın, about the rights of war queens and veterans, of course, in line with situations that have been encountered over time, these arrangements have been made one after another, so they have been made in succession.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0247par0277	There's inequality, there's feisty.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0278	Each incident, in its own way, tried to maintain justice and balance, compared to previous situations. Of course, in fact, in the time that we've made these payments with very different names up until recently, we haven't used them openly in the legislation, or specifically in the terms of the shihit, but we've always used them ourselves, but there was no particular response in the law. But right now, of course, we've created a legislation that's complicated by very different circumstances.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0247par0279	There's something wrong with the terminology.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0280	So your request here is an important request, it must be evaluated. But we ask God's mercy for all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for this country. May God have mercy on those of our security forces who have passed away. Again, may God have mercy on our citizens who have lost their lives because of terrorist incidents, our nation's heads. In fact, these people have sacrificed their lives for this country. May God keep our country out of this kind of trouble.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0247par0282	Some of them are even willing to do the honors, and they're not expecting anything material.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0283	I'm sure we'll do the proper work on that with our family ministry. Mr. Hurriyet has made similar assessments, but our Ministry of the Family is doing the work on this issue, and as the Ministry of Finance, we provide technical support for our Ministry. So I'm asking my friends now to do a study on the issues that you've brought up, so when he gets here, I'm also going to give you information, and I don't have any details beyond that. Mr. Bektaşoglu said, "Do you have a nut policy in the nuts for 2017?" We have a nut policy all the time, not just for 2017. Since 2009, we've made an arrangement to provide minimum income, especially so that there are no fluctuations in revenue levels, depending on the fluctuations in the recluse of our nut-producing farmers. We've brought a kilogram payment per dekar. The last thing I remember, it was over $900 million. So every year, we pay our nut maker a certain amount of money per pot. So since 2009, the policy that we put into practice in 2009 really pleased the manufacturer when we looked at the amount of recolte in this period, the amount of harvest. Look, let's go back to this for every year. There were also significant increases in nut prices during this period.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0248par0287	He's down to one third.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0288	There have been significant increases, and as a government, we, as a government, have constantly given our nut farmer this income support.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0249par0289	Ten liras, ten liras...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0290	For him, we're always there for our nut maker, with all our farmers. We also provide substantial support from the state budget for lowering their costs and increasing their revenues. We see the results of these in the election, and you see them in the election, and I'll also state it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0250par0291	The dollar fell to a third on the basis.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0251par0292	By God, the nut maker in Düzce is miserable.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0293	Mr. Lightning, the issue of national income -- Mr. Erhan mentioned it earlier -- is of course a technical issue. So, as politicians, if we stand up and consider the statements of TÜİK., Turkey's Statistical Agency as political, we're already on the wrong track. Well, technically, we have experts, and Mr. Master is a really good friend of ours. He may have reservations, so there may be things he wants to understand. Here, Turkey's Statistical Institution, from time to time, makes the necessary statements from economists, whether there are such doubts from our politicians, whether there are demands from economists; it is done more so it is explained if there are issues that still need to be explained. What I say is the same as Master Erhan Bey said, certainly and surely the quality of our institutions is very important, the neutrality, integrity, and credibility of the institutional procedures that TÜİSK have done above all else. And in every study of TÜİK News, as a government -- let me say, as a person who has been involved in this work since 2006 -- we have worked with Mr. Erhan, we've always sat together, we've worked together, we've prepared medium-term programs.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0252par0294	Mr. Secretary, what's wrong, what's wrong, what's wrong?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0295	We've worked so hard with Erhan Bey from the Turkish Statistical Association. So around here, increasing the institutional capacity of Turkey's Statistical Institution, improving its capabilities, quality of statistical studies, accuracy, credibility... we're no different, we all think alike, but I don't want to say that it's like this, I don't want to say that. As an outsider, I try to explain this to you as much as I can as I can as I can as a politician, but when I look at the explanations, I see that TİKIK is doing a professional study. I'm looking at criticism from the outside critics, there are similar assessments there, but there are only additional explanations on some issues, and I think that's true. We all need to develop these things together. For him, all the things that are expressed are valuable, that's what we're going to do. For him, there has been an amendment to what Mr. Simsek asked about national income and minimum wage relations, which is national income, but in the last two years...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0253par0298	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0299	...there was also an increase in the minimum wage by over 40 per cent. So I don't want to take up your time here, but if we put together the power of the minimum wage in 2002 and the power of today's purchase together, really, the power of the minimum wage has increased at this time. Nominal, when we looked at real wage increases, these increased.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0254par0300	You compare 2016 to 2017, do not go to 2002.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0301	In 2016...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0254par0302	2016-2017, $100 down now. How's it getting there?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0303	Mr. Tor asked me a question about the impact analysis. Social security, there's nothing wrong with the pension. In a technical study by the Social Security Agency, the total cost of the pension was around $2 billion, and so far it's been paid about $400 million. The remaining amount will be $1.6 billion. Since we're going to pay this in two installments, there's an annual analysis of the painting that we've distributed to you because the institutions reflected the account in 2017 and 2018. So...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0255par0305	Yes, last words, Mr. Secretary... I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0246par0307	Sir, thank you. I'll try to answer the rest of the questions in time.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0255par0308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446th article of the 1st Article of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on the Law and Laws of the Republic of Turkey Act 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Sea Depboy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Despite the fact that more than 30 years of pension bonuses are due before this clause is in effect, pension bonuses will be paid to those who have been paid over 30 full years of service, each year of full service, if they leave their post for the period of their pension, will be paid in the amount of three months' due on the basis of the period of the payment due on their original monthly factors, as well as on the basis of the payment of a pension bonus. The application of those who have not filed the application before the date of this clause's execution and have not filed a lawsuit is as good as made by the time this clause is in effect." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446th amendment of Article 1 of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act, which is currently in session. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Tulips Utku Cakirözer It is dated 1-8/6/1949 and added the following temporary clause to the Law on Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey 5434. "Despite the fact that more than 30 years of pension bonuses have been available before this clause is in effect, pension bonuses have been paid over 30 full years of service, for each full year of service over 30 years, if this law is in effect, if it is in accordance with payments to those who are on the same duty and staff due to be paid in the same year, if it is within the same month of the year, if it is within the same period of the year, if it is within the same period of the year, and if it is within the same period of the law. The application of those who have not filed before the date of this clause's execution and have not filed a lawsuit is as good as made on the date of its execution. In the cases that have been seen, the sum of the amount of the amount of interest will be calculated within three months from the date when this clause is in effect, without a requirement for an application is required, along with the legal interest from the pre-trial application date. Courts have ruled that there is no room for the court to decide on the grounds that the case remains unsettled in cases filed prior to the date of this clause. Judiciary expenses are left above the administration, and a fourth of the payment of power of attorney shall be paid. In addition, decisions made by the first-degree courts are not applied to the Social Security Agency's laws, and the appeals or appeals filed prior to the time of this clause's adoption have been waived." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of Law Bill 446 shall be changed in the following manner. Ahmet Yıldırım Osman Baydemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on Retirement Ark No. 5434 of the Republic of Turkey, dated 1ADDE 1: 8/6/1949. "Despite the fact that more than 30 years of pension bonuses have been available before this clause is in effect, the pension bonus, which will be paid through 30 full years of service, will be paid for every full service year over 30 years, regardless of the period when the law is in effect, will be paid in full three months in full compensation, regardless of the actual monthly elements and legal interest. The compensations of those who have not filed and have not filed before the date of this clause's execution are as follows the date when the clause is in effect, without a requirement to apply. In the cases that have been seen, the amount of the amount of the amount of interest that will be carried out from the date of the pre-trial administrative application shall be paid according to the 1st joke provisions, as well as the amount of legal interest that will be carried out from the date of the pre-trial application. Courts decide that due payment should be made within the legal time of cases in favour of the plaintiff, in cases filed prior to the time of this clause. All costs of judgment are left above the administration, and the payment of power of attorney shall be judged. In addition, decisions made by the first-degree courts are not applied to the Social Security Agency's laws, and the appeals or appeals filed prior to the time of this clause's adoption have been waived." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0256par0341	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0255par0342	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0257par0343	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0255par0344	Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0258par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly. I think it's the only item on this bill that has anything to do with the title in the brochure. I mean, a change in the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law and a single clause. Now, when we look at this material, it's actually very clear that this bag is intended to be used and presented as a Janjan. However, when you look at it, it's as if the AKP is willingly making this change or in favor of the workers, in favor of the pensioners, in favor of the poor, in favor of the workers, making a change in favour of the workers. Dear friends, this is not the case. You know, on January 7, 2015, the Constitutional Court, in a previous case against the pension law, based on 30 years of work, which had been valid for more than 30 years, calculated the pension bonus. The Constitutional Court rejected it and changed it in favour of the employees, in favour of the pensioners. So, what did the government do? You'd think the government or the SEC, the Social Security Agency, that brought this law into effect immediately. Dear friends, he didn't do that. What did he do, SGK? On the basis of Article 153 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court insisted that its decisions would not work back, but would concern those who retired after January 7, 2015. In the face of this, a public worker is Ankara 12. He filed a lawsuit against the Executive Court, and the case ended in favor of the public worker because it was unconstitutional and that's 12. State Court's final decision was 11th District Attorney's office. With the approval of his office, the government desperately brought such a change. However, dear friends, you know that this bag was discussed only in the Plan and Budget, when there were many laws in the law that needed to be evaluated by independent commissions. In fact, this bill was reported by the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission in June 2016 and brought to the agenda of the General Assembly. However, the General Assembly didn't bring it up, the AKP didn't bring it up on the General Assembly's agenda, and therefore took it into a bag, and now we're meeting in this bag. Dear friends, when we look at it, what is the AKP trying to do to prevent employees from winning again? He tried to put it in this law. What's he doing? He's starting to calculate the pension cuts that pension pension pension pension pensioners deserve for over 30 years. I mean, he's not taking into account the current inflation, and he's victimizing his employee once again. For him, the name of this bill was made public in the form of a penny payment. During the debates on the Plan and Budget Commission, the opposition's proposals were organised only to be $50 a year, or there was really nothing in favor of the labourer. So, what does he want to do with it? In fact, the AKP continues its behavior towards reducing and cutting the fees it deserves, with decisions made by the courts. For example, if you've filed a lawsuit before, you can't go to court, or you can't go to court on this bill, dear friends, to assess today's pension cuts through today's draft. As for the rich -- it's in this bill -- yachts, kotras don't get paid anything when they're brought to this country, but when they retire, they try everything not to give them a penny. Today, our pensioner is a retiree living in the most difficult conditions in the world. This says it must be changed according to our proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0259par0357	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446th amendment of Article 1 of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act, which is currently in session. With all due respect. Jacob Akkaya (Istanbul) and his friends It is dated 1-8/6/1949 and added the following temporary clause to the Law on Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey 5434. "Despite the fact that more than 30 years of pension bonuses have been available before this clause is in effect, pension bonuses have been paid over 30 full years of service, for each full year of service over 30 years, if this law is in effect, if it is in accordance with payments to those who are on the same duty and staff due to be paid in the same year, if it is within the same month of the year, if it is within the same period of the year, if it is within the same period of the year, and if it is within the same period of the law. The application of those who have not filed before the date of this clause's execution and have not filed a lawsuit is as good as made on the date of its execution. In the cases that have been seen, the sum of the amount of the amount of interest will be calculated within three months from the date when this clause is in effect, without a requirement for an application is required, along with the legal interest from the pre-trial application date. Courts have ruled that there is no room for the court to decide on the grounds that the case remains unsettled in cases filed prior to the date of this clause. The costs of judgement are left above the administration, and the payment of power of attorney is a quarter. In addition, decisions made by the first-degree courts are not applied to the Social Security Agency's laws, and the appeals or appeals filed prior to the time of this clause's adoption have been waived." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0260par0368	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0259par0369	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0261par0370	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0259par0371	Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0262par0374	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Before I begin my remarks, Mr. Minister said here that we have co-organised a new arrangement for pension bonuses from officers who have completed their service for 30 years in particular, who have earned compensation for increasing periods. As our Republican People's Party, I would like to say once again that we have no signature on that motion and that we will not sign such a motion. Dear lawmakers, we're here to arrange a bill for the unpaid bonuses of our retired officers over 30 years of work past 7 January 2015. Why is this arrangement made for prior to January 7, 2015? Because the Constitutional Court has made a decision on this date that if the authorities have more than thirty years to work, pay the pension bonus accordingly, for making such a decision. So it's not a win by the AKP's government to our officers, it's an execution of a decision made by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's decision came into effect on January 7, 2015, and after that, our officers, who retired over 30 years, began to receive a lot of bonuses. But for those before him, this legal arrangement had to be made. So why is he doing this legal arrangement in two years? The question here is that the AKP government, its power, really, is not in the interests of workers, workers, workers. I mean, it's been two years, and the power is working so fast, you can't believe it, two years later, it brought Parliament to its agenda. It concerns about about 400,000 officers, who have served this country in the past, retired 400 thousand, who are waiting for this legal arrangement. Well, couldn't that have been done two years ago? Yes, it could be done. Two years ago, we spoke here from this council bench to make these arrangements. In fact, last year, on January 27, 2016, our Group Vice President, Free Special, our İzmir MP Musa Çam and I offered a law, but the AKP didn't even mention it. Gene came to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission at the beginning of June 2016, where we met, but was not brought up by the AKP government again. Now he's been brought to us in a bundle. There's everything you're looking for in this bundle, like the goods of a sinking ship, so to speak, everything, from international transportation to Recep Tayyip Erdogan University, even the academic staff is in this bag. And the workers, who have been kept waiting and served their state for more than thirty years, are able to receive their losses through this arrangement that they deserve? Unfortunately, they can't. The arrangement will be based on our officers' fees from the day they retired, ten years, fifteen years ago, our retired officers will be paid off that day's wages, so there's a fee arrangement going back to the bird. While our government is demanding interest because it will receive the smallest, our pensioners will not be able to get delayed interest for late bonuses that were not paid on time. In our motion as Republican People's Party on this issue, I would like to inform you that the AKP has rejected him again, even though we call it the Republican People's Party. In addition, valuable lawmakers, with this arrangement, the state was also damaged because both the Constitutional Court's decision and the State's decision were both 11th. After his office's decision, many pensioners have applied to the court and received them with interest, which is why the state has to pay a power of attorney's fee. If these had been done two years ago, our government wouldn't have paid this much power of attorney, and even if it had given those power of attorney fees to our officers, our officers would have benefited more from it, and there would have been many shortcomings and losses. There are also violations to the Constitution, because the amendment of contract-based power of attorney fees to the Constitution shall not comply with the freedom of will in Article 48, titled "Work and freedom of contract." It is clear that this clause will be annulled by the Constitutional Court if it becomes legal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So let's set up this clause in accordance with the motions made by the Republican People's Party, and let our officers get the severance pay they deserve. Thank you very much, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0263par0385	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446th article of the 1st Article of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on the Law and Laws of the Republic of Turkey Act 446. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Despite the fact that more than 30 years of pension bonuses are due before this clause is in effect, pension bonuses will be paid to those who have been paid over 30 full years of service, each year of full service, if they leave their post for the period of their pension, will be paid in the amount of three months' due on the basis of the period of the payment due on their original monthly factors, as well as on the basis of the payment of a pension bonus. The application of those who have not filed before the date of this clause's execution and have not filed a lawsuit is as good as made on the date of its execution. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0264par0393	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0263par0394	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0265par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0263par0396	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0266par0399	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 1 of the Law Bill 446. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the Honorable President and members of the Constitutional Court for restoring the right taken away from our pension, for responding to the legitimate expectation of our pension, for the Honorable Court of Administration and for the Court of Prosecutors, and for the Electricity Production Corporation Techniques, which has opened the way to paying bonuses for over 30 years of service, for signing an injustice. Dear lawmakers, the proposed bill is related to bonuses that concern our tens of thousands of pensioners, which are not paid in time. It turns out, though late, that our pension has been defeated, so the government owes it to our pensioners because of the bonus they didn't pay in time. There's no need to cause any further injustices when you say that you're late, even if you're not. We have to be fair, to be conscientious, to be on the side of rights and law. It is clear that if we don't hand over the rights of tens of thousands of pensioners that we can't allow in the days to come, if we don't give them their dues, we'll owe them to the court because of this servant's right. Therefore, I think we should be careful not to rush the first amendment of the bill. Because, in this way, matter will produce great plague. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is clear that in five minutes' time, we cannot fully explain such an important matter. So I'm going to try to explain this with an example. The Social Security Agency has paid pensioners who have retired before 7/1/2015 by considering the coefficients in the initial history of their monthly, according to court decisions so far. As a result, a large number of people received bonuses expressed in pennies. The teacher, who was retired on 1/1/1980, was paid 21 cents on the 4th degree of 1. In 1/1/1991, a servant who retired from level 9 of 7 was paid 93 cents. At the same time, a pension bonus paid for one year to a retired officer with 600 additional indicators from level 8 of the third degree is $1.31. At the same time, the annual bonus rate paid to the manager of an additional 1,300-pointed branch, level 4 of the first degree, which is retired, is $1.60. It's possible to replicate the samples. For those of you who have retired in the past, you've been paid three cents and five cents. It's an extremely wrong practice that's eating up the pensioner's rights. Even though our pensioner has no flaws in the matter, he's still being punished, and if the matter is legalized, he'll continue to punish. It's never appropriate for the government to be unfairly punished. Dear lawmakers were the minimum salary of 2.94 on that date, paying a year's bonus to a teacher who retired on 1/1/1988 with a level of 4th degree, 1200 additional indicators. If we multiply the minimum wage today by 1,300 euros, the amount we have to pay for a year is 3,800 TL. What did we do? We've only paid 21 cents for our teacher who's devoted years to the education of this country and has bleached her hair. No one's sorry, this shame is enough for us, and no one can save us from this plague. Officers, imams, branch managers, apartment heads, nurses, midwifes, they're all the same. If our teacher applied after the bill was adopted, it would be $50; yesterday it was 21 cents, today it is $50. Yesterday he was ridiculous, today he's funny, wrong. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to tie the knot on a matter. His slave, whose ear he accidentally pulled out of his ear, had his ear pulled out of his ear so that his slave would have no more rights. You've pulled the ear of a pensioner so far that it's 2,000, 3,000 TL for each year. Our pensioner is frustrated, and he will continue to drop by. The Holy Osman has granted his rights to only one man by having his ear removed. You can't finish your retirement, you can't get even.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0267par0407	Ears are cut off.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0266par0408	Yes, the ear will break. I strongly condemn this understanding, which is completely against rights, law, conscience, which disturbs the public conscience, which does not meet the legitimate expectations of our pensioner. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0268par0412	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "prices earned as exchanges for cargo and passenger transport" in Article 2 of the Common Law Bill 446. Ahmet Yıldırım Osman Baydemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Toğrul Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Act 2 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of Retirement Ark Law 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Master Erhan of Saffet Sandzak Sea Depboy The statement of the "discharged cargo" (e) mentioned at the hand of Article 2 (2) of Mark Tax Number 488, dated 2/7/1964, has been changed to "prices obtained as exchanges for high and passenger transport." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Tulips Utku Cakirözer MADDE 2- 1/7/1964, and Article 2 of Mark Tax Act 488, subsection 2 (2) (e) have been changed from the "multiper charge" text and from the (f) load transport fee, which was earned as a foreign currency, as a token of the price. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0269par0441	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0268par0442	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0270par0443	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0268par0444	He wants to talk to you about the motion of the Flood Köse, Corrum MP. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0271par0447	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We'd like to make a change in Article 2 and Mark Tax Act 488. We also find the exception of the stamp tax and tuitions for the foreign-paid international cargo transport, and the exception of the exemption to travel transport, a positive one, but is that enough? It's not enough. Surely it is vital and necessary for this change to be implemented in domestic road transport. Is that enough? That's not enough. We believe that some arrangements for the truck, the bus, the taxi driver's shop, especially the fuel they use, will also contribute to the income and economics of these people, who may be considered small tradesmen. Of course, it's about the law, and our party's view of this law is positive with its shortcomings, but our country is going through more important processes, a lot of chaos, and we're going through a lot of challenges these days. In fact, we are going through an even more difficult period than the Salvation War, as some writers say. At such a time, and at a time of extraordinary circumstances, unfortunately, we are trying to change the Constitution and bring about a presidential regime, leaving our 100-year-old parliamentary tradition of democracy in our Constitution. Of course, what's going to change in our country with the presidential regime, is the economy going to get better? At the point where we're here today, at the point where the dollar gets 3,600, will it contribute to the economy? We all know it won't do any good. Look, today the inflation rate is 8.53 percent, 9.33%, the pension rate is 4.73 percent; we've pressured the officer with three percent; the increase in hospital medical contributions is between 20 and 60 percent; even the crossing of the Bosphorus bridges has increased by 48 percent, and the solution is the president. Now, very strange things are happening in our country, I'm afraid. We have different organizations running from the same center, from the top mind. It says that the ruling members, the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, even the President, but we're looking at who you've done the opening with from the same center? You did it with the PKK. Who did you do the training donuts with? You did it with ISIS. We gave them what they wanted...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0272par0453	ISIS? What makes you say that? What's that got to do with anything? What does training equipment have to do with ISIS?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0273par0454	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0271par0455	We don't take it off, dear Osman, it's already in the middle. We gave them what they wanted, and they called it the terrorist organization, which means, whoever he collaborated with, the power is run from the same center today. It's a device to conceal its own flaws. My dear friends, again, we said strange things are happening. Wouldn't power want to investigate the reasons for an attempt to overthrow him, the people who made this attempt? Or did all these people become martyrs for nothing? But he doesn't want to, if he wanted... you know, the Commission that's been established on this issue held its final meeting today, and he didn't listen to the Chief of Staff and the Undersecretary of the MIT, who we can call the most influential men of this coup attempt, the one that prevents the coup. My dear friends, this new Turkish regime is a totalitarian regime to be established with a constitutional amendment. It's a regime that connects courts, the army, the police, the unions, trade organisations, universities, ÜBİTIAK, to the only man whose eyes can tell what he's saying when he looks at it. So many institutions are trying to connect with the party president, who is a member of a party, perhaps the president. All institutions of the state and society are being tried to wear the uniform of a party, especially today, of the Justice and Development Party. Where's the democracy in that? We promise this here in the presence of 79 million of our people and in the presence of the lawmakers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: we will not allow this, dear friends. This is the only party, we say, based on one man's rule, that this regime is not right about the future of our country, the future of our 79 million people and our young people. January is a dark month, a month of pain, because of enlightenment and more of what we've lost on the road to democracy. It's January now. We have martyrs of democracy, Metin Göktepe, Onat Kutsler, Muammer Aksoy, Gaffar Okkan, Uğur Mumcu, all of which we lost in January. We say we will not allow this constitutional amendment in front of their saintly memories, in front of their memories and in front of 79 million people, and the presidential constitution that binds Turkey's 100 and 40 years of parliamentary democracy to the will of one man. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0274par0462	Thank you, Mr. Köse. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0275par0467	Mr. President, thank you. While Mr. Flood was speaking on the stand, he made a statement that we had armed ISIS under the program for training donuts. This is what postmodernism looks like: the absence of the centre and a terrorist organization can be used as a leverage in domestic politics, a tool for other purposes. The state of the Republic of Turkey considers ISIS a terrorist organization, and the treatment against ISIS has always been that way. The training donut programme was mainly a work for the coalition for moderate opposition environments in Syria. And based on the foreign origins of this, it's also obvious to whom the training equipment is being made. So, I hope there's been an error of information here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0276par0470	What do we care?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0277par0471	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0277par0473	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0474	Mr. President, I'm being bullied by the fact that I've misled the public or that I've made a statement. I want two minutes' promise from teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0279par0475	No, sir, what teasing?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0277par0476	What kind of teasing?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0477	Sir, we didn't do the training to the Light, we did it to other moderate organizations there, and I'd like to make a statement about it. What I said...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0279par0478	He's already told me, he's fixed it, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0479	Sir, I want to fix it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0279par0480	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0280par0481	I didn't hear your explanation, but come in, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0483	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0280par0484	Dear friends, members of lawmakers, I'd especially like to ask that your tone be raised in standing speeches, because he's not coming here.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0281par0485	Or a collar mike, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0488	Mr. Deputy Chief Justice and Development Party, we did not provide training training to ISIS, we provided co-educating coalition forces to a moderate group of opponents there." It says so, but when I look at Syria from the Anatolian geography of 79 million Turkish citizens, for us, El Nusra and ESO and ISIS all appear to be groups of the same logic. However, the ruling members refer to ISIS as a terrorist organization today, but three years ago, Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu described the period's Prime Minister İsmail as the angry Sunni youth. So today...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0282par0489	He said there was no such explanation. No. Where did he do it?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0278par0490	ISIS, ISIS... there was such an explanation. So, from here, as a source of terrorism in our country today, the ISIS terror organization, one of the main sources of terrorism, is one of the consequences of the civil war in Syria, and Al Nusra and ÖSO, all of which are connected to Al Qaeda for us, all of which are enemies to us, all 79 million of our people in Turkey. I wanted to shed some light on that.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0283par0492	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0282par0493	He's fighting ISIS right now, where he killed 1,500 ISIS militants. You still equate Turkey with ISIS. 1,500 ISIS killed the militants there.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0494	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0283par0495	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0496	Mr. President, our former President Ahmet Davutoglu has no such statement. This is an open taunt, I demand a say.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0283par0497	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0500	Mr. President, dear friends, someone actually came to this stand and said,
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0285par0501	They're slandering the country. Look at the reports. Whose country is this? He's slandering his own country.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0502	...what's the information on this subject in the market, you have to look around and talk about it in this frame, and I think the seriousness of it is that it feels needed. Mr. Davutoglu's explanation is that this issue is being used as a diversion, as a manipulation, and I'm suing the surrounding environments. He described the Flood as an angry youth. The subject he calls the court is now in effect.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0286par0504	Yeah, well, he told me.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0505	In politics, this kind of manipulation, you know very well that it's done from time to time, unfair, unjust, irrelevant, irrelevant. Now there's no way to take them back and make it look like they didn't have a job that didn't happen by saying it over and over again.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0287par0506	How many provinces now, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0507	As for the incident in Syria: Look, if only Syria were in peace and quiet, if only there were no nosebleeds, but the internal developments in Syria have reached a dramatic point and there have been some conflicts. The next process, within its own internal dynamics, was a link between opponents, extreme radical movements, foreign fighters from outside, and a variety of opposing actions that came into play, fighting against the current Assad regime. Is it right to put all the opposition moves in the same basket now?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0288par0508	What do we care?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0509	Of course, ISIS, El Nusra, these are extremely fanatical, radical, and, in my opinion, non-Islamic, looting and plundering organizations, but it is unfair and unjust to put opposition circles in the same phase as the people who were persecuted by Assad.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0289par0510	They don't know, they don't know.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0511	To be with the oppressed, Mr. Flood, it is your duty, and mine. We will be with the oppressed in Syria, and we will be against the oppressors. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0290par0514	But we won't be cruel in Turkey either.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0284par0515	Of course.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0291par0516	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Yıldırım, you have a request. Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0292par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we know that a package of constitutional amendments is coming to the Parliamentary General Assembly starting next week, and we're going through a process where, no matter what it's called, or what it's called, one person's powers have been greatly increased. It's possible that this is going to a referendum. But, for a certain period of time, there's been a series of operations that we've been calling political genocide operations, which are facing the county and county agencies of our party, which are strong in political infrastructure, but the legal infrastructure is completely off-limits, going on and on. The last time, exactly four hours ago, was from a Twitter address close to power with its chief resident...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0291par0524	I'll turn on your microphone. Please complete.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0292par0525	Thank you. ...our Istanbul County Co-Chairs, Doğan Erbaş and Aysel Güzel, who have been on trial today but have been in custody for 24 days, have been arrested as well as 10 others. It seems that in a possible referendum, the political power, which seeks to break the power of social opposition, continues to operate through its politicisation. We think they're not legal, they're not a product of a normal judicial, independent judicial process, they're being carried out entirely by political opinions. They've announced their arrest before they've been brought to the prosecutor's office from some of the social media addresses close to power, and I'd like to say that I strongly condemn it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0293par0528	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and by some Laws and Laws. The price of the "laden cargo" (e) under which I have been removed from force and (f) has been reduced as a currency of the "label prices" of the "label prices" of the "laden and passenger transport" which were earned as currency" of the 2-1/7/1964 article 2 (e) in addition to Article 488 of the Mark Tax Act (2) (i.e.). Master Erhan (Samsun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0294par0538	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0293par0539	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0295par0540	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0293par0541	Erhan Sensei wants to talk about the motion, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0296par0544	Thank you, Mr. President. Luckily for us tonight, every time we go out, our Finance Minister must be out.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0293par0546	He's probably here so there won't be two technicians. You're the technician on the stand...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0296par0547	But we'd better learn our ideas, because our goal is to make a contribution. I'm really trying to make a contribution. I told you, this is a series of national incomes, you know, it's gonna go on like a pyre. In short, what I said was, if this series should retreat or the government is behind this series, then all policies should be reviewed, so we can't pretend it's nothing. Now, I'm going to show you guys a graph. This is the average growth chart during the AKP administrations. Now, this first part, don't see the second part. The first part shows the old series, the average growth in the old series. The part with blue is 2003-2010, and the second part is 2011-2015. Why do I separate it from 2010? There's been a break in the series in 2010, so it's something to do with the series, nothing to do with government performance. So, when the series comes up to 2010 with little increases like this, then it starts to make a jump, so I'll separate it. According to the old series, up until fifteen days ago, all the academics in Turkey, politicians, institutions, international institutions, all experts entered a period of deceleration after 2010, and in order to be removed from this slowdown, these had to be done, these had to be done. Didn't they? Mr. Prime Minister, here we are, explaining packages, doing some work, even if it doesn't go into practice. Turns out there's no need for that in the new series now, fellas. That second part is the new series. Look, here's the part where they grow blue again, 2003-2010, okay? The numbers don't matter much, but let me read: 5,1; the second term in the new series is revised from 4.9 to 5.1. Normal, maybe; 0.2 points would be a change. But the second part is being revised from 4.4 to 7.1, friends. You know what that means? What this means is that the policies that are trying to increase growth are all wrong, wrong policies, and it turns out that growth in Turkey has already been ejected after 2010. In fact, what we need to do is, in order to reduce the Cari deficit, maybe right now, we need to hit the brakes on growth. I'm telling you what these data say. Is that real life? It's not. I mean, that's for everyone with a conscience to see. Look, politics have to be radically changed according to this graph. That's enough, actually, but I'd like to make it easier for the Finance Ministry and the Finance Bureau, and maybe they didn't do these analysis, and a few of the budget revenues, Mr. Undersecretary's been following me, too, so... Yes, can we leave the head of the IRS alone? I mean, there's no Minister, so let's at least tell the bureaucrats, sir. That's the central management budget, Mr. Undersecretary, their total income. The blue one here -- in the old series -- is the rate of national income. I beg you, take a look at the trend. So this is the year of the break again, so don't see too much before. What would someone say to this graph before it breaks in the series? In Turkey, budget revenues, national income rates -- according to the old series, I'm saying blue -- there's zigzag, but it's actually increasing. So if you take a trend line from there, it's pointing upwards. The current series says: "No, sir, after that -- on the contrary, there's no going up, there's no going down." Now, here you have to change your policies, all your policies, in this new series and the old series. We can see that for tax revenues -- because it's tax dollars right now -- that's the same thing with tax revenues. In the old series, as tax revenues increase in national income, the current series says: "No, on the contrary, the tax is falling in the national income, you have to increase taxes. Can we now pretend that nothing exists? That's what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, let's look at the spending, and the spending is interesting. In the old series, after 2010, the new series says: "No, spending doesn't go up, it goes down the other way." I say, "Yeah, that's why Turkey lost its compass." Is this spending going up or not? Are we going to increase the spending in the coming period, to ensure macroeconomic stability, to ensure the growth of this country, to see the needs of this country, or to reduce its needs, or to do what? Do we have an idea? No. So either throw away all the political documents or pull this series. So to maintain these two at the same time.....sir, the series is good, and you can't say, "Keep on with those policies." You can't say, "Turkey will suffer a great deal of damage." I have other things to say, and I'll tell you what's off the record. One of the reasons for the revisions is that we cover more of the non-registered economy, says TÜİK. Do you know what that means? Recently, the off-the-book economy means it's growing, it's a confession. Why? Because before... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...when you're covering it better in returns, so if there's been a lot of growth in national revenues lately, then the informal economy that we haven't seen has gone up a lot. And now that we've covered this in the new series, our national income has grown. I've always claimed that the off-book economy is already increasing, that the Minister of Finance is failing. Of course, TİK has confirmed my argument here. I wanted to present this to you. My respects.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0297par0561	Thank you, Mr. Master. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the price of the prices earned as currency for shipping and shipping in Article 2 of the Law Bill 446, which is currently in the current 446 rows. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman (Iğdır) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0298par0568	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0297par0569	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0299par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0297par0571	Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0300par0574	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The amendment in the 2nd article of the bill -- which I had just mentioned -- was, in fact, an arrangement that was introduced on July 15, 2016, about five and a half months ago, with a bag of legislation. In that arrangement, the exchange of foreign currency for transportation was granted; now its area has been expanded a little bit, some companies will become richer, taking advantage of this exemption. Thus, under this exemption, companies that used to operate only cargo transport were exempted, and now passenger transport has been activated, so the number of companies has been increased. The laborers' taxes, the resources from the public's taxes, are being used by the government, as are capital companies, large corporations, holdings, so that they can't pay taxes or be tax-free. But, more importantly, this bag that we've always discussed is also a sign of the failure of the law, of the logic of the law. Four months ago, there was an arrangement, and four months later, there was regret. Now, in four months, I'm sure this bag of legislation will bring back new changes with a new bag of legislation. So the bag of laws will maintain each other like this, every four months, every five months, with a new bag of legislation, a new arrangement made four months ago, will try to be avoided by a new arrangement. Here we are, in fact, a fraud against the legislature of the House, which has been mortgaged. So this bag of laws is a trick against the authority of the House to make law. Why cheating? Because the bag is filled with so much material that it concerns different laws that there is not enough debate in the commissions, in the fellowship commissions, in Parliament, about the relationship of those substances with the basic laws, what benefits it, what consequences it can produce in practice, what consequences it will produce in practice. I've already been told that many times by friends of opposition parties, but I can't get past the point here. Dear friends, you know, there was a video of four soldiers being burned by ISIS barbarians a while ago. One of those soldiers was a soldier named Sefter Stone. About a year and a half ago, a soldier was killed by his friend ISIS, while Sefter Stone was injured in ISIS's hands, and there was no news from that day. On December 1, 2015, I personally submitted a question motion to the Ministry of National Defense. I've called the government twice to investigate this soldier's condition from this bench. Again, I spoke to the Secretary of Defense and the Home Secretary himself. I wasn't given any information, neither was the family of the soldier, but you all somehow watched it on social media, two soldiers were burned. We don't know if this video is accurate, the intelligence will know it, the government will know it, but this soldier's family has yet to be informed. The family of the soldier cannot set up a condolence tent, nor can they accept condolences, nor is my child alive. He can say, "My children are alive. " Despite their appeals, there's only one answer: wait. The classic method of AKP power: in all dire cases, in all dire cases, in all cases against itself. Wait, wait, wait, wait. The policy is followed; the goal is to make it forget, take it off the agenda. Now, once again, if this Sefter Stone soldier is alive, is this video correct, we expect an answer from the government. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0301par0580	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0302par0585	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0301par0586	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. I'll identify the MPs who filed the motion by name. Mr. Gök, Mr. Karbıyuk, Mr. Minister, Mr. Pine, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Yilmak, Mr. Yilmak, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Balbay, Mr. All, Mr. Doğan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Chest 446, we propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı of Deniz Depboy "MEDDE 3/2/7/1964" has been changed to "prices of weight-laden currency" taken out of force (e) of Article 492 of Article 2 (2) (e) of the Law of Elevens, which has been lifted from effect and (f) taken from me as a currency exchange." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Tulips Utku Cakirözer MADDE 3-2/7/1964 and the additional 1 pearl of Law of Wrath 492 The price of the "subject" taken out of the text "multiple load" (e) of the article (2) was changed from the text "f" (f) and "the price of the weight and passenger transport" (f) from the "stuff earned as a exchange" (f). Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Toğrul Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0303par0622	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0301par0623	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0304par0624	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0301par0625	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0305par0628	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 446th Amendment to the Law and Law Act. I salute you and the public. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I wish everyone a future in the new year where peace and brotherhood will find life. I salute all of our imprisoned citizens and their families, and I wish them patience and patience. Dear lawmakers, the change in foreign policy and political rhetoric that distances itself from Europe every day is a fact that today puts Turkey in economic difficulty. The language of political power is in fact nothing more than preventing the economic straits from being reflected in public in a clear way. Cari is open, importing policy, the rise in currency, the rising unemployment, the failure to spin the wheel of the internal economy, many problems are already maintaining its temperature. Of course, the government takes steps to cover the exchange deficit, but these steps make the unfair distribution of income even more insurmountable. When the third article is examined, the Law on Harçes is changed and the exception of tuition for international transport is changed to include passenger transport. So, every area that is viewed as a foreign currency activity is supported by the state, and partial privileges are recognised. However, such practices are attempts to save the day and have nothing to gain in the long run. Turkey is covered by seas on three sides and has active and important ports and straits for world navigation. However, if looked at, port policies, which have not been effectively and properly created, are not improving enough in the area of sailing. The lack of effective use of Turkey's largest source also prevents the creation of a powerful country in the international arena, with small steps trying to achieve economic order. Let's not take mortar from cruise ships, it's a foreign currency, it's an incentive. Such practices don't contribute much to the economy. Serious and solid steps must be taken in order to understand the real problem and to address the economic strait. The initiatives of a company's logic to save today don't add anything to the country's future, but the resources that exist will also destroy it. Such proposals, created among such real issues, are of no use but to make the current investor more powerful, rather than to solve the existing problem. The tax rates on the people are increasing day after day, while the revenue distribution of the population maintains injustice, while the capital's diet and it earns a price. Dear lawmakers, the biggest cure for economic crises is to be a reliable country in domestic and foreign politics. However, in domestic politics, the State of Emergency, detention and arrest mechanism is far from a reliable port for Syria in foreign politics today. In the environment of such political and political attitudes, an economic structure is created, not growing, but shrinking. So many academics, journalists are far removed from attracting investors in an environment where politicians are imprisoned and detained without legal grounds. Our priority, of course, is to stand for peace and justice. Economic stability will only live in the environments where these two main rules are provided. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0306par0637	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. MADDE 3/2/7/1964 has been changed to the phrase "prices earned as exchanges for load and passenger transport" (e) from the "manager charge" text (e) in the hand of Article No. 492 of the Law of Elevens (i.e. Özkan Yımım (Ağük) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0307par0646	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0306par0647	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0308par0648	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0306par0649	Özkan Yimım, Uçak MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0652	Thank you, Mr. President. I extend my love and respect to the Minister, my dear colleagues, and to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey who are watching us at this hour. Dear friends, we're talking about Bags 446 rows of Law. There's a lot of different stuff in here. You know, whether or not he's going to get the pensioner's bonus after 30 years, you know, with the foreign flag and the striped yachts being Turkish band-aids, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. The third article changes the Law of Elevens and the exception of tuition for international transport to include passenger transport. Now, dear friends, first of all, I'd like to emphasize that the political crisis, which has emerged as a result of your policies inside and out of power, and the economic crisis created by the State of Emergency regime, will not be introduced by such, foreign currency-producing activities; I want to make it clear first. If the country wants to overcome the economic crisis, it must quickly take steps that will strengthen democracy and bring peace to the environment, instead of pushing the country into a greater polarisation with the constitutional amendment and regime debates, leaving the existing lawless practices. Otherwise, I'd like to make it very clear that with such display arrangements, nothing, foreign currency, or so on, is possible. It is said that because of the transportation of the travellers, dear friends, Mr. Secretary, how will you bring the passenger after the recent events? Not the passenger, not even the cargo from outside the country. For that, we have to secure our internal security first. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, the MP of the NHP, has just told me very well, and I don't want to repeat these things exactly; I don't want to talk about the mover's problem, fuel, highway, no control, customs officer, cantar, weight control and all that. You've already put it on their backs; it takes 25 tons, and you throw 25 tons on it, and you put on its insurance, and you put on its MTV, and it's already finished. However, this particular item is about passengers, buses, bringing people on board. No one's coming, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0310par0659	Don't worry.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0660	After the incident that took place on Saturday evening -- especially on Sunday morning -- after the incident in İstanbul Ortaköy, Europe was already not coming because of the explosion in Sultanahmet -- neither the German nor the Belgian nor the Dutch -- now the Arabs will not come. I mean, where will you find the passenger? Dear President, right now, we're dealing with no ships, no foreign, American, no Greek tape, Turkish tape. That's not our concern. Our concern is to ensure the rights and safety of a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. I just sent three pages of text to the Minister. On 23/12/2016, the Ministry of National Defence, the Chief of Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, and the Prime Minister of... They still haven't answered our written, written questions, Mr. Secretary, in 13 days. I just sent them to you, I hope you'll send them. Do you know what it says in here? Yeah, that's what he writes, that's what he writes. Dear friends, this is what he writes. If it's true, we're all ashamed, if it's true. If it's true, we're all a shame. Do you know who these are, if they're real, in the footage...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0664	Oh, don't provoke me!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0665	Osman Bey, shut up! First, we protect the rights of a citizen of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0667	What's that got to do with anything? Speech! Speech! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0668	Shut up once!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0669	You're showing me what's not, how's that working out for you?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0670	One of them -- 13 days later -- is Fethi Şahin, birthplace of Konya, 26 years old, works in Tekirdağ and intelligence.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0671	I will come to Turkey again. He says, "No one will come." What kind of a thing is that? Look at his column, he says, "Let him come to this country." There's no such thing. He'll explain.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0312par0672	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0673	The other person is Sefter Stone, his post is Kilis, 21 years old, infantry. Here, I want an answer to that, Mr. Secretary. Our mission here is whether these children were burned or not. Are these guys who we say they are, or aren't they?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0674	It's not. You're talking!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0675	Our mission... right now, I don't care if the yachts are Turkish-based, European-based, American-based. Are these kids our kids or not? If these kids are our kids, then woe to us all. Who are we protecting in the desert? Who are we protecting?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0677	We're not protecting anybody! We're destroying the DEA militants! You're talking!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0678	First we need to set up the camps that are needed to the borders, the 3 million Syrians, the 3 million Syrians who came out of control, all of them. We need to block the uncontrollably in-and-out. That's how many of our citizens died because you didn't control these gangsters, these terrorists, these ISIS people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On New Year's Eve, 39 citizens died because of our lack of control, our disregard.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0311par0681	If you love God, leave him alone. Look at your own country, your own. You despise your own country, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0309par0682	We'll protect our own citizen as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, I'm waiting for the answer to that question.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0313par0685	Thank you, Mr. Yum. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0314par0687	Shame on you! We'll see when that explanation is made, you won't be able to face anyone.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0315par0688	Shame on you! Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0316par0689	Come protect your own citizen. I'm defending my own child. What if your child went to Syria?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0314par0690	Come on, brother, come on! Provocator, come on!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0316par0691	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0317par0692	Our children are there, ours. That's where our kids are.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0316par0693	They're our children.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0318par0694	Dear Yým, please, sir, Mr. Yým, please take your seat.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0319par0695	Who the hell are you advertising? Whose propaganda are you doing? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0318par0696	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0320par0697	Thirteen days no answer, thirteen days no answer.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0321par0698	Ozkan out.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0322par0699	Our children go with your children.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0323par0700	Dear Yım, there is no such procedure; please, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0324par0701	Is that even a thing? Would he humiliate his own soldier? What the hell?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0325par0703	Ozkan...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0326par0704	I haven't heard back in 13 days.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0327par0705	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0328par0706	Mr. Secretary, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0327par0707	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0329par0708	What the hell? You did the same thing on the commission. Come on, let it go, let it go.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0328par0709	One moment, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, just a moment.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0330par0710	You answer that.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0329par0711	Don't answer it, leave it. Come on! Come on, brother!
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0331par0712	Osman Bey...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0332par0713	Mr. Secretary, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0329par0714	Will the soldier forgive you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0332par0715	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0333par0717	Answer this, answer this.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0329par0718	Speech! He's making a statement.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0333par0719	Not given, Osman, not given.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0334par0720	What the fuck are you gonna do? Sit down, you rascal.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit05spe0335par0721	I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0335par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The motion on Article 3 was kept in motion. I'll have him read the final motion on the matter, but the Minister had a request to make...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0336par0007	I got my request back.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0335par0008	Mr. Secretary has retracted his request. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Chest 446, we propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends "MEDDE 3/2/7/1964" has been changed to "prices of weight-laden currency" taken out of force (e) of Article 492 of Article 2 (2) (e) of the Law of Elevens, which has been lifted from effect and (f) taken from me as a currency exchange." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0337par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0335par0016	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0338par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0335par0018	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0339par0021	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding our motion on Article 3 of the Law Bill 446. I salute your committee. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the terrorist attack in Istanbul in the early hours of 2017, and to our fallen police officer who died in the terrorist attack in İstanbul. I also offer my condolences to the citizens and families of our foreign nationals and deceased guests who are visiting our country. The January 1st 2017 Reina massacre and all terrorist incidents after July 15th were in fact the aftershocks of the coup attempt on July 15th. No matter where terror comes from, no matter where it comes from, it will not take over our country; it will not create fear and anxiety; rather, it will make the Turkish nation one and all; every Turk will have his will and his future. Dear lawmakers, the proposed bill is another one of AKP's laws -- which, as we say every time -- continue to come in a way that is called the "torba" (torba). In drafting the bill, dozens of different laws that are not directly related to each other are being changed, and due to the lack of urgency of the envisioned regulations, the bill was brought to your attention by a healthy assessment and a number of important non-responsive substances, which were not discussed in the possible commissions. Members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly specialisation commissions take into account lawmakers' expertise, and it is not possible to say that members of the Plan and Budget Commission are experts in all things. Therefore, special expertise and evaluation issues must first be discussed in the relevant residency commissions. In my opinion, a year's opinion, Turkey's Grand National Assembly legislature legislature activities are being carried out in an irregular, incomplete and sloppy manner, the quality of legislation is falling down, the legislation is not being observed when drafting. In addition, regulatory analysis of regulations prepared by the government is mandatory. Analyzing the potential benefit and cost of editing was envisioned to include detailed information and evaluations on social, economic and commercial life, advice and opinion-taking processes monitored by the effects of environmental and relevant segments. However, there is no regulatory impact analysis of the bill; it has not been specified who it will bring to the state, and who it will bring no benefits or harm to. Members of parliament, the amendment to the Law on Harçs with the third article of the bill has been intended to extend the stamp tax on foreign currency-producing activities subject to international tenders and the exception of the stamp tax on international transportation to passenger transport, as well as the exception of passenger transport. The main reason why it was replaced with this substance is that the Plan and Budget Commission rushed to discuss it as the main law, despite the change in the Investment Environment in 15/7/2016, due to the use of the word re-enactment, other than the purpose of its declaration. While this arrangement is being made, similar practices are being carried out in domestic transport; arrangements for the tax reduction of the truck, bus and taxi shop, specifically for the fuel they use, and the truck and bus driver also say that they must also be exempted from the ETV renovation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0340par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark No. 446, we propose and propose that a amendment be made to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed to the term of the 4th Article of the Law. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Sea Depboy Baking Lightning Saffet Sandzaker Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 4/4 of the Law shall be changed in the following way by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act 446. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tule Karbük Utku Cakirözer Ancient Durmaz Bkent Öz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu The application fee for Article 8 of Law No. 492 (XIII) was removed from its licenses and fees from their visas: The title of the chapter title and the first sentence of their visas, and from the third sentence of their visas, the visa form was removed. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law Charter 446 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0341par0057	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0340par0058	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0342par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0340par0060	Mizgin Irgat, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0343par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, in fact, our country has become a country to be remembered by the bag of laws. Unfortunately, the Parliament, which bypassed the legislative function at every turn, has become a system that brings the changes the AKP government has filled with bags. And it's also necessary to review this: yes, I think that the fact that a lot of the issues that concern a lot of the bill, which are one by one, that have to be discussed, have been brought here in a basket, in a bag of legislation, is actually the most important indication that a work that lacks seriousness is being carried out. Mr. President, there have been many issues discussed here, and I'd like to present a very striking example to you today: a alleged ISIS member in a trial in Istanbul has been released on that grounds because he has a municipality of residence. Eight people detained 24 days ago, including our co-chairs and executives, were also ordered to be arrested on the same day and the same day. Our co-chair -- a lawyer, a lawyer -- Mr. Doğan Erbaş and all our other friends are fixed residents and members of the People's Democratic Party. On the other hand, a group of our co-chairs and lawyers, including 31 people, has been ordered to arrest him. In fact, we know from here that many criticisms to the judiciary are not accepted by you here. Not only outside, but also in Congress, the design, the threat language, the system that you're creating under the name of a language, is actually about to rot and disappear. This system, which is wanted to be ruled by the Parliamentary system bypassed by the State of Emergency and by the Turkish Cypriots, must one day be completely eliminated. Yes, the clause and bill that we're talking about is a study that has been brought to a group of investors, biased, allies of yours, subsidiary institutions, ally municipalities, a bill. So there are no workers, there are no poor, there are no people, there are no majority of this country. When we look at this exception to yachts and marinas, I'd like to ask you: how many poor people, how many citizens have yachts and ports where you get up and discuss this arrangement as if it's a good thing, as if it's the size of a bill passed through the House? Unfortunately, this bill has no response to our people. There's also a very important answer that I've drawn out of this bill: I've established a bond with the trustees who have been brought to DBP-based municipalities -- as I've been reading the bill -- the trustees -- who you've replaced by our mayors -- in accordance with this law, the trustees will pursue that institution, the municipality, whoever they want, the institutions they want, wherever they want. So it had a political meaning, but one of the things that it meant was that it was a bill, because you're collecting rants over your own policies to your supporters, to your investors, to your own. Therefore, it is clear that this bill is not a bill for peoples in accordance with the reality of Turkey. Mr. President, we'd like to see a Parliament where the real problems of this people are discussed, where real rights and freedoms are divided by the absolute form of law and execution, an independent legislative activity. Unfortunately, that's not the direction we've been going to every day; we've become a country where the rights and freedoms are suspended, the arbitrary arrests are suspended, and we don't know what day we'll wake up tomorrow, but freedoms are gone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think this system, which we run with an unstable policy inside and out, is going to be stable with these plans. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0344par0073	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 4/4 of the Law shall be changed in the following way by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act 446. With all due respect. Bulent Öz (Chanakkale) and his friends The application fee for Article 8 of Law No. 492 (XIII) was removed from its licenses and fees from their visas: The title of the chapter title and the first sentence of their visas, and from the third sentence of their visas, the visa form was removed. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0345par0082	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0344par0083	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0346par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0347par0085	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0344par0086	I'm reading the reason: The change is made to better understand the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark No. 446, we propose and propose that a amendment be made to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed to the term of the 4th Article of the Law. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0348par0095	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0344par0096	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0349par0097	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0344par0098	It's Baki Simsek, Mersin MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0350par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I have received a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group in the motion issued on Article 4/4 of the Law Charter to change certain Laws and Laws under the Law of the Republic of Turkey No. 446. However, I will convey to the Minister my thoughts on the natural disaster in Mersin today. Mersin has faced the greatest natural disaster of the last 30 years. About 167 kilograms of rain per square metre, the snow in the Toros Mountains is now over 10 feet [3 m] [3 m] and 70 per cent of Çukurova (70 per cent) of Turkey's food is still underwater. So there's a flood, it's not over. We lost five of our citizens in Mersin. Two of our citizens lost their lives in Adana. The body of one of theirs is still unreachable. The size of the natural disaster is much larger than what is reflected in the press. So we expect the government of Mersin to declare an emergency disaster zone. According to the Agricultural Administration's assessments, there is only damage on land worth 116 million liras. All the greenhouses are underwater. There was an interview last week at the Council of Ministers meeting about this, but I don't think we've heard anything that might be a salve to the wound yet. Farmers' debts must be postponed immediately. These farmers don't have a chance to pay these debts, and they don't have a chance to pay them next year, because all their crops are underwater, waiting for it to spread to a minimum of four or five years. Other than that, they're looking for cash, only delaying debts won't save our farmers, and that's what they're looking for. Of course, the natural disaster is not the fate of Mersin. This area is below sea level. When more rainwater comes from above, every ten or fifteen years is left with the fate of Mersin. Fifty years ago, in the 1970s, there were evacuation channels in this area, drainages, pump stations, but this hasn't been updated, the technology isn't responding right now. That's why this area was immediately visited by our Minister of Development and lawmakers from all political parties. However, the area must be visited immediately by the Ministers of Agriculture, Environment and Forestry. Because they're supposed to see this place at the time of the disaster. The majority of investments here are related to the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. The DSI Director has to go and see this area. We face this disaster every ten years. If only money spent in a disaster is spent in normal time, the fate of Çukurova will surely change. And the rivers that pass through the city also took Mersin captive, and Mersin was underwater. The DSI of these streams must quickly rehabilitate these streams, and if they do not, they must be handed over to the municipalities. He can't get over the issue; the municipality can't get over the legislation to make an arrangement in the stream, to improve. The DSI won't allow it, but every time it rains because the streams aren't cleared, it floods the city, unfortunately, in a place with a mountain behind it, a sea ahead. And there's a need to make arrangements for that. Due to the disaster, additional funds should be sent to municipalities and governors -- this region was declared a disaster zone in 2000, when all municipalities in this region were also sent additional money by the state -- because municipalities have mobilized their resources in both the fight against snow and flood. There's serious damage, major collapses in the infrastructure, and they need to be repaired. We expect our government to send additional funding for these. Also, we have citizens from the east, southeast, working as seasonal farm workers and Syrian citizens living on primitive conditions around these canals. We're ashamed of our humanity. Inside the tents, there's no electricity, there's no water, there's dirty water in those canals, and people are fighting for their lives. We expect the container cities and tent cities we know of to be given to seasonal farm workers who work in this area, to be put into containers and given at least one electricity and water, to be provided with more humane, more civilized conditions. And in that regard, our Deputy Prime Minister is doing his job as the ministry in charge. I hope that the fate of Çukurova will be replaced by healthy investments, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0351par0109	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Law shall be changed in the following way by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Tulip Carabine Musa Pine Utku Cakirözer The fourth joke of Article 22/A of Turkish Central Bank Law No. 1211, dated 5-14/1/1970, has been changed as follows. At least eight times a year are held to assess developments in the national and international economy, following the call of the President (Guvernör). The third joke is also applied for the meeting of the Council of Money Policy, with the other provisions of Article 21. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0352par0125	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0351par0126	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0353par0127	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0351par0128	Bült Kuşoğlu wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0354par0131	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've taken a pledge on the 5th amendment of Bill 446, but before that, I'd like to say that our work at this time is not very right, that it's not healthy, that I condemn our members of the group who are responsible for this particular matter without any distinction. But, of course, it's the ruling party's priority in condemning. It's probably not the fault of Mr. Doğan, nor of the members of the group, but I believe Mr. Doğan is the promoter of our work at this hour.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0355par0133	It's his biggest crime.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0354par0134	Sir, the subject of our amendment proposal is the reduction of the Central Bank's meetings from 12 to 8 of the Council of Money Policy meetings. It's the same with international literature. The FED meetings are held at least eight times a year. When our meetings are held at least 12 times a year, meetings are mandatory, and since there have been no meeting of FED meetings or other important central banks or market-determinator central banks, ours have been having trouble making decisions, meeting in vain, being inconsequential, being meaningless, so it's right to reduce to 8 kilometers. But when it comes to the central bank, I would also like to say that the Central Bank -- according to the law of Central Bank 1211 -- its primary task is to ensure price stability. You know the latest data on inflation on price stability. The inflation of 2016 was unfortunately very high; it was declared 8.53 TÜFE. It's way beyond what you'd expect. While we hoped that other goals, other goals of power, did not happen, but that inflation would happen more or less, it was also very misguided. If there's inflation, it's high, it's unstable. Stability also brings great distress in the economy. Unfortunately, in the next year, in the year we're in, and in the years ahead, we're going to experience this instability, this distress, the lack of balance in the economy, and we're already going to experience it a lot. This needs to be taken care of. I just asked Mr. Finance Minister a question in question-answering, and I said, especially after the new series of national income figures explained by this TÜİSK, our income has increased by 20 percent on paper, but this brings up many issues as a change. Have these changes been made at least in the OVP, and have parallel changes been made? Because, for example, we have to give agricultural support to the villager, the farmer, by law, about one percent of the illegitimate domestic population of national income. Now, with our national income increasing, the support for the peasant needs to be increased, and now it's down to less than half a percent. I don't know exactly what the situation was, but we couldn't provide 1 percent, and now we're below half a percent. As for the tax burden, Erhan Bey also explained, the tax load was reduced. Well, then, the taxes have to go up. We can't get the income tax and the tax on institutions based on a real statement, and we can't collect. Everything's turned upside down after these readings. So right now, in the economy, economic institutions, there's a great deal of confusion in co-ordinating economic institutions, there's a real problem. I'm not saying this politically, I'm saying this because I'm uncomfortable; I'm saying this because we all have to figure this out together, because we're going through politics, we're going through chaos, and I'm afraid in this situation. We all have to do something about it. There's been an untrustworthy environment that hasn't been explained in years and years, not exactly identified, but our businessmen are investing more abroad than in Turkey, unfortunately, friends are in such an environment. We can't go on like this in this environment, we need to create a trust environment as soon as possible. The measures need to be taken as soon as possible. This way, we can't do a sincere job of making up a bag of laws. This is not the way Turkey is governed, the way stability and trust are created; it's at the bottom. About all of this, together, there's a responsibility for us, so let's do something... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's discuss these matters, but that's not the way it works. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0356par0141	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 5 is accepted. There are three proposals on the 6th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 6 of the Law Charter, we propose that the "incompatible" of the first sentence of certain Laws and Laws shall be changed into "unconcerning the truth" and added to the end of the clause. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın "In this application, the average monthly income per person in the household in Article 7 of this law is based solely on the monthly income of the disabled." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 6th article of the Law Bill of Perpetual Amendments to the Law and Law Act under the Law of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Tulips Utku Cakirözer The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım İstanbul Şanlıurfa Mush Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Toğrul Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0357par0165	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0356par0166	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0358par0167	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0356par0168	I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested the same motions. Erol Dora wants to talk about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0359par0172	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 6th Amendment to the Law of the Retired Ark. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with this clause of the bill, an afflicted populist pardon for paying our disabled citizens in various pens, under consideration of a possible constitutional referendum on unwarranted payments. In the current case, the per capita income in the household is cut off from home care to disabled citizens if it exceeds two thirds of the monthly net amount of minimum wage, and the payment paid under the name of improper payments is returned with interest. The arrangement now aims to collect an improper payment, as well as an increase in income, with the interim clause added to the law. The problem here is actually the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Because situations such as death, change of address, change of health report, and the removal of the state of disability are the issues that should be followed by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and these problems are due to the Ministry's failure to fulfill its responsibility. Dear MPs, another problem is that among our eight and a half million disabled citizens living in Turkey, we also have citizens who are unable to receive the help they need to benefit from, and that this clause does not bring any regulation to our disabled citizens who are victims. However, the provision that brings an arrangement that concerns eight and a half million disabled citizens must be discussed in the relevant Commission on Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs, and must be prepared with the contributions of NGOs involved in social policies. However, in the process of preparing materials, I did so by the power to exclude NGOs, centrally and, because of the adoption of its approach, which is that many more problems have arisen and people who need social assistance are even more victimised. Mr. President, the social policy analysis of a government in the interest of low-income and underprivileged citizens can be easily done. On the other hand, the extent to which a state adopts the principle of a social state can also be revealed. See, recently, the minimum wage commission has been convened and has decided to increase the minimum wage by only $100. Of course, it's important to emphasize that the most important indicators in a country are income distribution and poverty data, which demonstrates how fair economic sharing between social classes and individuals is. The minimum wage debate is at the top of the income distribution and the living conditions of workers. While international standards are not observed in our country in determining minimum wage, the standards of the United Nations, the ILO and the Council of Europe are not considered. The assessment of minimum wage is not only in accordance with international principles, but also in accordance with national legislation provisions and TİK data. Because the TİK has already submitted its report to the minimum cost of a worker's life at $1,669. Mr. President, you know Mr. Nihat Zeybekci, Minister of Economy, demands minimum wage for trade unions, there's no end to asking, but there's no end to the reality of the economy. We are in the country with the highest minimum wage in the world compared to its national income. Their claims point to a very fundamental and false data, given the OECD data. Because according to OECD data, Turkey is 20th among 26 countries in terms of the power to buy minimum wage. As I end my speech, I invite the government to be sincere in developing realistic structural solutions to the problems of millions of poor citizens, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0360par0181	Thank you, Mr. Dora. He wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0361par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in a motion concerning the 6th Amendment to the Law and Law Act of the Republic of Turkey. Yes, the introduction of this clause to the Plan Budget Commission is this: Now, if there is a disabled citizen in a household, in the case of a disabled citizen's home care allowance, then in the arrangement that was made later, until this bill arrived, if the income per person per household exceeds two-thirds of the minimum wage, then the care allowance is not given to this disabled person, and if there are any outstanding payments before that, all of them are returned with interest. That's why so many families were devastated, and so many actions came to the families. We've come to the Plan Budget Commission in the same way that this material came to: it came to the same purpose, and even more than the minimum wage, it will be returned with the amount of interest. The Plan entered into the budget in the form of a plan. So, how did the plan get out of the budget? On the way out, it came out the other way, as it should have been, so it's like this: from the date when this material was put into effect, it's been abandoned, including interest rates that have been paid more and more and more unregistered and should be returned. It's been tried. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be. Now, there are two important points here, precious representatives, what does that tell you? On the way to the Plan and Budget Commission, it's coming so hard that the caravan is so fucked up on the road that it's exactly the right thing to do when it's leaving, but it's not the way it came, it's very interesting.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0362par0190	We fixed it.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0361par0191	Of course we did. Second: These calculations are not done by the household, they are not made by the disabled citizen in the household. So who's doing it? He's in charge, so he's the one who calculates the income. So there's not enough pay and monitoring mechanisms. So, is it the citizen's fault? So now, with these payments taken back, the power didn't actually grant anything, it corrects, makes up for its own mistake; that's how you have to see it. I'd like to make another point: we said in the Plan and Budget Commission that it had not been noticed before, see, that the payment for using non-real documents and medical board reports should be excluded from this, and they've accepted our warning, and we've overlooked it before, and I'd like to stress that. And how much is that? Look, that's how 57 million people and about 10,000 people were collected, so there was a wrong payment, an inappropriate payment, and a collection, and three million out of 57 million were forged and misleading reports. So what we're referring to as being excluded from there is actually quite appropriate. Well, let's just say, why isn't a disabled individual getting a monthly care allowance in his own home? Why is he being ignored? Isn't it supposed to be considered a separate act in that family without being ignored? I'll tell you another thing: in our society, in our culture, do mothers and daughters and daughters-in-laws look after their mother-in-law for money? Now, the system that's being brought in -- I know there's another system coming up -- is bringing care to family elders in exchange for money. Isn't that against our social tissue? Leave the disabled person's home care allowance to him and do not change this social tissue. Is that even possible? Brides, children will look after their mothers, mothers-in-law, father-in-law for money. I mean, I've never been able to make this about our society. I'd like to make another point. The disabled are currently unable to make effective use of their health care. Especially the electric chair they need, wheelchairs, prosthetics, hearing aids, and sometimes even the cane can't be provided for them. That's a very important point. Congressmans, if a society does not maintain its disabled and elderly citizens, if it does not provide the necessary support, it cannot be an advanced society. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0363par0200	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I'm reading the other motion on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 6 of the Law Charter, we propose that the "incompatible" of the first sentence of certain Laws and Laws shall be changed into "unconcerning the truth" and added to the end of the clause. "This application is based only on the monthly income of the disabled in the average monthly income per person in the household of Article 7 of this law." Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0364par0208	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0363par0209	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0365par0210	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0363par0211	It's Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0366par0214	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on our motion in Article 6 of the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of the Republic of Turkey. I salute your grand delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, although the government has taken a step towards resolving the victims with the interim clause added to the 2828 Law of Social Services, we see that the government is still trying to govern the country with its unplanned and impulsive momentary actions. The problem is that family income is based on the monthly allowance. According to us, the disabled must be tied monthly by an assessment of their own income, otherwise similar problems will continue to occur in applications. Dear lawmakers, according to Turkish-İSK's research conducted in December 2016, the monthly cost of food spent by a family of four is $1.432.17 on the hunger line to ensure that they are healthy, balanced and adequate food. The total amount of other monthly expenditures for clothing, housing, rent, electricity, water, fuel, transportation, education, health care and so on has been $4.665, under the poverty limit. The monthly cost of a single employee is $1,761.74. As of 2016, we are looking at the month of our disabled and elderly: 680 lira 51 cents a month over the age of 65. Our citizen, who has an obstacle situation between 40 and 69 per cent, has a monthly salary of $1.021.93. The monthly salary of those with 70 per cent and higher disability reports is $1,532.89 a month in need of care. His under 18-year-old disabled relative is $1.021.93 a month. According to the amendment made in the Act on the Monthly Monthly Monthly Monthly Monthly Act 2022, if the monthly income per person is equal to $392.50, the pension of the disabled member in the family is cut off. And how will our disabled citizens live on this salary, with help, at a price that is far below their hunger limit? Moreover, this help is granted only if he asks for it himself, which means that many disabled people are also deprived of it. With the law imposed by the state to make it easier for the disabled to enter the working life, 3 per cent of the private sector is obliged to employ four per cent disabled staff in the public sector. A workplace that employs 50 workers only has to employ disabled persons, which in this case employs two disabled people, but employs seasonal workers, and then, after providing the necessary workforce during seasonal periods, if it needs less than 50 workers, it lays off our disabled citizens. In this case, our disabled citizen is suffering because he needs to go through a lot of procedures to get paid again. So he's got to wait around for a new disability pension for, like, three months, when he's stuck with a job that he's had a hard time getting after a disability pension, which is a very long time. How can this problem be solved? If a worker is employed, a disabled worker may be forced to work for a year or two. Again, application conditions can be corrected, so that our disabled citizen is not afraid to apply for a job, nor is he afraid to be fired. Again, victims of existing laws related to home care allowance and disability allowance for disabled persons need to be compensated. And the point is, they're getting help from the same ministry as martyrs, veterans and disabled people, but unfortunately they don't have the same rights. The child of disabled parents in particular has no housing allowance in case of studies. Both these children and the children of disabled families need to benefit from it. And to your knowledge, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0367par0224	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 7th Amendment to the 446th Amendment to the Law and Laws of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act, which is currently in session. With all due respect. ADDDE 7-25/10/1984 added "the software and non-fiscal rights sales and rentals" to the first article (d) of Article 13 (d) Article 3065 of Add Value Tax Law (d) after the declaration of "requirement surrenders." Bihlun Tamaylıgil Yaşar Tuyün Tule Karbük The Ancient Durmaz Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0368par0244	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0367par0245	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0369par0246	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0367par0247	Mehmet Ali Aslan wants to talk about the motion, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0370par0250	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. I ask God's mercy to all of our people who lost their lives in 2016, and wish that 2017 would not be like 2016, with such pain, with sorrows, with deaths. By the way, I congratulate our Simanur White brother and his teachers and his family here, who answered all 120 questions in the TEOG Exam and got among the tops of Turkey, and I congratulate them, and I congratulate them, and I congratulate them, and I wish them a continued success. I have made a promise on the 7th Amendment. Under the arrangement, it violates the principle of tax justice to bring tax exemptions, exceptions to private companies, capital sectors, and the exclusion of those exemptions from the majority of society, and it violates the principle of equality of the Constitution. It's an arrangement that eliminates tax compatibility. These continuous tax pardons and exceptions to major capital divisions also disrupt financial discipline, including many irregularities in the area of taxes. Most importantly, the burden of exceptional taxes is on the workers, the workers, the women, the students, the civil servants - the majority of society. The process of economic depression and crisis with the exemptions and exceptions brought in by political government's bag of law enforcement cannot be prevented. The only prescription that will end this crisis and bring about social prosperity is to end the injustice of income by taking over the peace climate in the country; by prioritizing the worker, the worker, the worker, the student, the officer -- a production-oriented, fair economic growth. We also have about 8.5 million disabled people in Turkey. Certainly, in the first place, electricity and water money should not be taken from our disabled people and elderly people in any way. The government must provide for your basic needs. A limited limit must be provided with the Internet and communication, the ability to make phone calls. Children should be provided with free stationery supplies. The state must pay for the wedding of disabled people who want to get married. Unfortunately, our disabled people also complain that many hospitals and malls park in private parking spaces for disabled people, unfortunately, without disability. In fact, even on walking tape made for our visually impaired people, tradeshops, shops, or cars are parked there again, and our visually impaired people are getting hit, injured. The disabled vehicles did not receive a fee for a fenni examination before, but with the transfer of it to private, our disabled person will again receive an examination fee for their vehicles. For disabled people in car purchases -- for all disabled people -- the VAT should not be taken; it is taken from some, it is not taken from others. The disabled employment must be increased and the disabled employment must be conditioned according to the size and quality of each institution. There's one condition at the moment, but there's little, it needs to be increased. Drug money must not be taken from disabled individuals and children, family. Even if public transportation, such as aircraft, train, ship, is not available for free, our disabled person should benefit at least 50% off. And I salute all of you in these feelings and wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0371par0261	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 7th Amendment to the 446th Amendment to the Law and Laws of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act, which is currently in session. With all due respect. ADDDE 7-25/10/1984 added "the software and non-fiscal rights sales and rentals" to the first article (d) of Article 13 (d) Article 3065 of Add Value Tax Law (d) after the declaration of "requirement surrenders." Yasar Charter (Telephone) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0372par0270	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0371par0271	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0373par0272	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0371par0273	It's Yasar Charter, Bilecik MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0374par0276	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 7th amendment of the bill we're discussing. I salute your high council. Dear friends, as MP, we have the authority to live. Since 2002, you have been busy exploiting this authority from the day AKP provided the majority in Parliament. It's a bag of law, and this bag is kind of the law, so to speak. Twenty-three separate issues, 23 separate laws, and not only are you bringing them in as the basic law, but the basic law and the bag are the law. I sincerely want to say that when you get a call from a party in your constituency tomorrow morning, when a citizen calls you, Mr. Congressman, I have a question about the substance that came out last night around 1:15 p.m.: What is it, how was it accepted or not? Unfortunately, many of you are unable to answer it. Because I don't understand how you're going to hand over this much authority to the Council of Ministers when we're doing our legislature. That's not true, that's not Turkey's agenda. Turkey is in a state of terror, unemployment is on its way, insecurity is on its way. Perhaps the most important item in this bill provides an exemption. It's a positive clause, of course, but the fact that this clause is enforced, that it's adopted as a law, that its reflection on a citizen or a tradesman isn't directly accurate because you're bringing up a record pardon. Many of our citizens, our citizens, our tradesmen will surely benefit from this pardon, but what will be the fault of our tradesman who has paid his SEC, his BUG-KUR, his tax in time, and his right and honest way? What immunity do we give him? So we forgive those whose record has been broken. Yes, forgive us, but what ease do we provide to a citizen, a tradesman, who has done his duty as an honest and honest tradesman, paying his taxes, his taxes, his SEC, his BUG-KUR? We're not. Therefore, the adoption of this bag of legislation this evening or tomorrow will not be an easy task for our trade dealer, who serves in the state of the Republic of Turkey. Because at the investment point, our citizen, our tradesman, today's government, unfortunately doesn't trust today's AKP power. And because he doesn't, this package, these laws that have been made will only remain on paper, and will not be enforced. My fellow lawmakers, I would like to say this sincerely: If we now, under our Constitution and the Civil Code, hand over these powers to the Council of Ministers in this sense, in this regard, in Turkey's agenda of constitutional amendments, I want you to know that if it is adopted after the General Assembly or after the referendum, you will be completely, completely, completely out of your power. As a friend of yours who has served as a city councilman and mayor in the past, I say that if this law passes through the House next week and is accepted at the referendum, you will all become city councilmen. You will become citizens under the president's command alone. Therefore, we have millions of people who say, "We, our citizens, our sensitive citizens, are to be handed over to one person the gains of the Republic in the process of the General Assembly or in the referendum." I ask you to listen to our people, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0375par0281	Thank you, Mr. Charter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law shall be changed as follows by Article 446 of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act and by some Law and Law. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Kale Kabir Kabir won't stop Musa Çam Utku Çakırözer Mehmet Bekkinoğlu The "field and land surrenders" of Article 17-3065 (p) of Article No. 8-3065 of Law (i.e. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Act 8 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 8 of the Law shall be changed under the Law and Law Act 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Sea Depboy Mevlüt Karakaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0376par0301	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0375par0302	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0377par0303	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0375par0304	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0378par0307	Mr. President, despite all our warnings and advice, this bag is expected not to be taxed on the sale of land and land in accordance with the amendment to Article 8 of the Adding Value Tax Act (4). I have made a pledge on behalf of our party group on behalf of this motion. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers are already able to sell in this area without two years worth of land and property added tax according to existing law laws. Therefore, the goal of removing this time is unfortunately not understood. It is also a mystery what land or land was acquired before two years ago and should be sold afterwards. Unfortunately, there is no clear information on the reason for the provision. In addition to the lack of open information on the basis of the clause, as I said at the beginning of my statement, the law must be absolutely clear, and although it had previously been an exception to the Law on Value Taxes, the purpose of removing the two-year period was not understood, although the added value tax was not received. Of course, we all know that taking care of the interests of society, not the interests of individuals or individuals or a group, must be one of the main objectives of the law. The provisions brought with this clause will enable or cause municipalities to be transformed into land and land-selling companies, such as real estate agents. It is also possible that municipalities, like a business organisation, are involved in buying and selling land and creating unfair competitions between the people and organizations who do the same job. With this material, the land and the land will be created into city and zoning rants, creating unfair gains and attracting allies. We are concerned that an application that causes unfair competition and tax loss will make our municipalities land and land realtors. Therefore, we propose that this clause be removed from the draft text. Dear lawmakers, of course, there are also changes in some of the clauses of the Adding Value Tax Act, and the incentive for investments is being raised on the basis of these provisions. Now it's a Justice and Development Party classic. Some issues should be brought into the main title, but they are brought in with constant subtitles, with subtitles. Again, the 10th Development Plan was referred to as a transformation of 25 matters, but a 25p transformation was not made, unfortunately. As in bankruptcy, by manipulating numbers through TİK, sir, methodology, methodology, methodology, technical, method changes, comparisons are removed before they are eliminated, and later, data are used politically without corrective corrections to ensure consistency between periods. I mean, there was an arrangement in 2006, but the numbers were compared to 2002 and 2015 in the same environment, as if they were consistent. I salute your grand delegation, once again stressing the need for attention in these arrangements.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0379par0314	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 of the Perpetual Law on the Amendment to some Laws and Laws by the retired Ark Act 446 rows of the Republic of Turkey. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil (Istanbul) and his friends The "field and land surrenders" of Article 17 - 3065 (p) of Article 17 of Law 8 - 3065 (p) were released from the text "forums and transfers, which were carried out by the sale of the property of the province's private administrations," which included "or by the ownership of municipalities and private administrations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0380par0323	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0379par0324	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0381par0325	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0379par0326	I'm reading the reason: The amendment is made to better understand the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are three proposals on the 9th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 9 of the Persistence Code to the Amendment to some Laws and Legislatures under the Laws of the Republic of Turkey, which are currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Kale Kabir Kabir won't stop Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Musa Çam Utku Çakırözer The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 9-3065. "Second MADDE 36 - There is no added value tax in moving surrenders by municipalities and state private administrations without creating an economic business before this clause is implemented, so there is no history, so if there is any prior history, it will be waived on the condition that the lawsuits be waived, the charges which are imposed are abandoned, the charges collected are denied and not returned. Before the date of the application of this clause, added tax dollars collected by municipalities are deposited in tax offices. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the 9th Amendment be removed from the draft text of the Law Bill, under the Law and Law Laws Act 446 rows. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Müslüm Doğan Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0382par0356	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0379par0357	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0383par0358	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0379par0359	Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0384par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 9 of Law Bill 446. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, all planning that the EC PARTI government took advantage of the economic and political crisis in 2001 alone and was referred to to to sustaining its power is now on the verge of a major collapse and unsustainable situation. This bag bill stands before us as the official version of this collapse in the economy. Instead of organizing the problems of workers, workers, civil servants, taxpayers, we see that the burden of this is still on the citizen, rather than overcoming the deadlock of capital. Normally, there is no refund of the value-appropriate tax on construction due to an investment incentive document. The arrangement envisions the extradition of VAT (VAT). We also see clearly that this arrangement is now being made to revive the construction industry, which has reached its fullness and remains immovable. The part that's supposed to be a VAT return is actually the part that's considered a burden on businesses. The Construction Sector Trust Index has suffered its largest decline so far, reducing by 6.9 per cent to 75.75 per cent in November 2016. The crisis in the construction industry, which has expanded uncontrollably so far, cannot be corrected by law. Until structural problems for the sector are properly determined, without the necessary arrangements for social rights that our citizens have, only runt-oriented policies will not yield until the right steps are taken on the health and safety of workers. Dear MPs, look, just yesterday, in the early days of 2017, one of our workers was killed and three of our workers were injured because of an undetectable explosion of iron smelting in a factory in Aliaka district of İzmir. Unfortunately, our citizens are again paying the price for policy that prioritizes labor health and not work. Another thing I'd like to talk to you about is individual pension savings and investment system law number 4632. Although the individual pension system is presented by the AK PARTY government as an example of developed European countries, it is actually another name for liquidating the social security system. The EC PARTY government has concentrated its efforts to destroy the social state principle of the Republic of Turkey. Where is it seen in a social government that employees are forced to participate in a system through their own efforts? In order to create a serious source of capital for the spin of the system, social security and the freedom of contract are ignored. Because everyone has the right to social security in Article 60 of the Constitution, and the state is obliged to provide security and to establish the necessary organization. The right to social security is clearly defined by the Constitution. The duty of the social government is not to force citizens into the individual pension system, but to improve and improve the social security system, which employees pay in the current situation. The need of workers, workers, rather than the mandatory individual pension system, is a free and qualified, healthy and social security right. With the state's contribution, coercion of individual pensions means financing private insurance from the state's pouch. However, a significant portion of the state's tax revenues are provided from the taxpayers. It is not acceptable for workers to be forced to fund capital with tax dollars, money cut off from labourers, and to want to overcome the recession in the economy in this way. If savings are required to be increased, the solution should be development programmes, not growth programmes. You don't save by force. If there is to be a savings, there will be justice in taxes, and there will be less taxes than many winners, and there will be no tax forgiveness of billions of dollars for the large capital, under the name of tax peace. Dear lawmakers, this system is known to be vulnerable to abuse. Therefore, what needs to be done is not to organize the state contribution area, but to abandon the mandatory practice of individual pension and state contribution by sticking to the principle of the social state, and not to waste public resources. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0372	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I'm reading the reason for the second motion of the same nature: The practice of non-profit tax on the sale of municipal land and land is still implemented for two years of land and land. The removal of this period will be based on city and zoning rants, creating unjust gains and setting the stage for the withdrawal. It will lead to unfair competition and tax loss, and will bring back pardons, making municipalities land and land realtors. Therefore, the removal of matter is foreseen. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retired Ark Act 446 rows and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil (Istanbul) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 9-3065. There is no added value tax in moving surrenders by municipalities and state's private administrations without creating an economic business before the release of this clause, so there is no history, so if there is any prior tariffs, it will be waived on the condition that the cases are waived, the charges which are imposed are abandoned, the charges collected are denied, and the sums that are collected are not returned. Before the date of the application of this clause, added tax dollars collected by municipalities are deposited in tax offices. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0386par0386	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0387	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0387par0388	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0389	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark 446 rows, we propose and propose that the 10th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed in the form of (50 million) of the 10th Article of the Bill of the Law. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Deniz Depboylu Mevlüt Karakaya Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzaklı Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 10th amendment of the 10th Article of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Tulips Utku Cakirözer The following temporary clause has been added to Law 10-3065. "Subject MADDE 37- within the scope of an investment incentive to the manufacturing industry; A) During a year of construction work due to the minimum 50 million Turkish liras for fixed investment investments, the value added value tax, which cannot be compensated by the six months of 2017, has been imposed in 2017 due to the six-month reduction period. B) During the year of 2017, due to construction work on investments envisioned to 50 million Turkish liras, following an unrefundable added value tax imposed by the end of 2017, If requested, you will be extradited to the owner of the document. If the incentive document is not completed, the refunded taxes will be imposed and collected with delay interest starting with the extradition date. These taxes and fines begin at the beginning of the calendar year, following the date of the time period, the tariff of the tax or the situation in which the sentence was imposed. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0388par0413	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0414	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0389par0415	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0416	I'm reading the reason: The amendment is made to better understand the material text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark 446 rows, we propose and propose that the 10th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed in the form of (50 million) of the 10th Article of the Bill of the Law. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0390par0425	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0426	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0391par0427	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0392par0428	Motive...
tbmm-2017-01-04sit06spe0385par0429	I'm reading the reason: A fixed investment is envisioned to boost support due to construction work on envisioned investments. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-04sit07spe0385par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 443, ranked in the second row, and with the Commission for Information and Technology Report of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision was made on Thursday (January 5th 2017) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision, at 14 p.m. I'm closing the assembly at 00, so I'll say good night.
