tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2018 and the Central Management Act of 2016. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the eighth round of interviews today. The eighth round includes the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Small and Middle-Size Enterprises Development and Support Administration, the Institute for Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent Institute for Scientific and Technological Research, the Turkish Academy for Sciences, Turkish Patent and Branda, Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry, the Ministry for Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing, the Ministry for Forest and Water Affairs, the Ministry for Forest and Water, the Government's General Directorate, the National Institute for Meteorology and the exact accounts of Turkey's Water Institute. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the eighth round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Adana MP Mr. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya; On behalf of the People's Party Group of Cumhuriyet MP Tahsin Tarhan, Denizli MP Mr. Kazim Arslan, İstanbul MP Mr. Didem Engin, Kayseri MP Mr. Cetin Arık, Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal, Edirne MP Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Tokat MP Mr. Kadim Durmaz, Çanakkale MP Mr. Bült Öz, Isparta MP Mr. Irfan Bakır, Kırlareli MP Mr. Kuzabi Kayan, Edirne MP Mr. Erdin Bircan; On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Mr. Saadet Capakli, Mardin MP Mr. Mihat Sancar, Muş MP Ahmet Yıldırım, Şırnak MP Leyla Birlik, Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan, Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım, Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir, Tunceli MP Mr. Alican Önlü. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Giresun MP Mr. Cemal Özturk, Çank MP Mr. Hüseyin Fiz, Gaziantep MP Mr. Ahmet Uzer, Gaziantep MP Mr. Mehmet Erdoğan, Mersin MP Mr. Hacı Özkan, İstanbul MP Hulusi Şenturk, Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Ali Cevheri, Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Mehmet Akürek, MP Mr. Hüyüye Erdoğan, Antalya MP Mr. Hüseyin Samani, Kırklıka MP Mr. Abdullah Özklıka MP, Mr. Mr. Akyük, Mr. Aküçüçın, Şiçını MP. On behalf of the individuals, in favor of Mr. Tahir Ozturk, MP of Aydın, Mr. Deniz Depboylu. There will also be speeches on behalf of the government. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Dear God, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0002par0065	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party Group on the budget of 2018 of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Congressmans, annual budgets are texts that predict income-gods during the next period and allow them to be spent and implemented in their place. Therefore, the state is responsible for the performance and credibility of budgets. At the beginning of the year, the amount of expenditures promised and the consistentness of their pens with the figures that took place at the end of the year are here. Dear lawmakers, as the banks' TL funding costs increased by the end of 2016, the firms' interest rates increased. Seriously, the firms were under the pressure of these interest rates. With slowing sales, the cost of more expensive financing and the high domestic producer price index -- 17.3 per cent in November -- bends the back of our entrepreneur today. Investigating four-quarters in a row in machine and equipment investments, the decline has collected a sum in this last quarter and tried to put it on top of it, but unfortunately it has delayed the expected breakthrough in the industry. In the last seven years, the construction investment growth seems to have doubled industrial investments by two. In fact, only 2.5 per cent of loans used in loans appear to have gone into investment. On the other hand, the inefficiency that has not been attempted to overcome the industry has continued so far. In other words, there is no growth model due to production in 15 years, which comes from consumption, which is what we call the more cortisone growth model, and by the time we get there, the average ten percent unemployment is now stable, the high-carriage deficit is being seen, the high external debt is being made. Turkey's economy faces inflation today, with increasing foreign currency currencies giving a serious signal, which cannot be lowered. Political and economic ambiguities in Turkey also make the private sector in Turkey saddening and delaying its investments in long-term investments. And that anxiety is showing itself and warning us in the declines of other trust indexes to both the sectoral and the economy. The latest third quarter industrial growth has been released from the season and calendar effect, which is still behind services and construction sectors, and is only 2.2 per thousand. Nowadays, the ministry should be able to make the diagnosis of why growth figures in the industry remain behind according to other sectors, and to produce solution models in line with this quickly. Dear lawmakers, if we find the last number of growths in the industry enough and bury our heads in the sand, our goals for the future will remain on paper, unfortunately, just as they do for inflation. We're still discussing the glass film while Earth Industries absorbs 4.0, and I think we should put it aside, turn our faces to science, industry and technology, and talk about new production techniques, new production models. Because the level of digital maturity of the industry is between Industry 2.0 or Industry 3.0 when we look at the Technology Report of Industry in Turkey, which was built by TÜBITAK. Speaking of TÜBITAK, the bill we discussed this year at the Industrial Commission in March envisions the establishment of the current industry and technology, and we now see that the adoption of this bill is brought to us of a very serious importance, although the year is over. On the other hand, if we value science and care, we need to see it in the budgets, lawmakers, this should be reflected in the budgets in a concrete way. The Turkish Academy of Sciences budget, aside from 13 per cent inflation this year, seems to have only increased 3.7% in this environment. We need to build our industry with scientific and technological content, innovative and creative ideas; it's very important. In order to develop our product pattern and production methods, we need to present support immediately. We're dealing with an industry in which it produces and sells products, which, of course, in exports, does not reduce the share of the import component. With such a structure, it seems that it will take time for Turkey to get to the advanced countries league or to jump higher. That's why, as the National Movement Party, our expectation is that some structural transformations should be made quickly so that import dependency in the manufacturing industry can be reduced to a reasonable level and transition to the medium high-tech product pattern. If we can provide structural transformation in industry, we will be able to overcome many of the problems we face at work today. How can this be? However, it will only be with the implementation of a holistic economic policy that will aim for a structural transformation in industrial policies, and we will be able to provide it -- as I have just said -- with strong budgets. Otherwise, there seems to be no road for Turkey to go far with what we call a construction-based model, the economy of concrete. In the first 11 months of 2017, companies -- when we looked at it -- were mainly based on construction and service, while the number of companies established in the industry remained behind. When we look from August to September, there are valuable lawmakers, and there are 16,000 casualties in industrial employment. So in terms of employment, people move from industry to service industry or construction industry. We can also say that Turkey is on its way to industrialisation. Our industrialist quits his job due to high cost factors in production or moves to the construction economy or transfers to the service economy, sort of changing majors. The policies that will get in the way of this situation need to be carried out as soon as possible. Congressmans, there have been a lot of changes in our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology over the past few years. Now, Turkey has been set before the goal of becoming a science centre, a technology base and an advanced industrial country. However, when we look at the second part of Turkey's Industrial Strategy Document, released in 2015 -- this document covers the 2015 and 2018 years -- there is a sentence that states that long-term vision is the design and production base of Afro-Avrisa in medium-high and high-tech products. But our vision, when we look at it like this, is that instead of being an imported fason production place or another country's fanfare, we should have increased our innovation capacity and technological leaps, which should have been the main part of this document, or it really doesn't seem very realistic that we can have a say in the industry at this cross-eyed point of view. The share of high-tech products in manufacturing exports -- let me tell you, a popular comparison -- was reduced from 6.5% in 2003 to 3.9 per cent in November 2017. So the manufacturing industry is a little bit behind in high-tech products both as a share and export. This rate is behind the developed countries. This decline in 15 years also trumps its 15 per cent target for the next ten years. So it's really hard to reach a 15 percent goal in ten years when we look at it from today. It's not an operation problem to increase the share of high-tech products in the total production of products, precious MPs, we can't look at it with an operational approach, we have to put it in front of us as a long-term process, and we have to set goals. We can start this process by focusing on the production of science, RD and technology, and we can continue to move forward with some steps on it. We passed the law on production reform, remember, last summer, as a result of a serious study, the law passed on our Parliamentary General Assembly again. There were no solutions to productivity, added value, advanced technology, branding, increasing international competitiveness, unfortunately, there were a number of day-to-day measures, a law for finding solutions to the sectoral or regional problems needed at some points, and that's how it became legal. We'll have a very short position to go with this. But what we had to do was we had to build a solid industrial policy, we had to start from here, we had to take steps that would make the infrastructure of the industry a friend of the manufacturer. We're seeing an opportunity that's been hijacked on the road to powerful industry, but I'm hoping we'll have a chance to get it back together in the next phase. In order for Turkey to produce high-tech products mainly, we need to create an educational system based on intelligence and science, critical and questioning, where we need to start. Innovation, research and development, the production of new design and technology will only take place with a well-educated, scientific and rational thinking ability of a human capital. It's one of the most important subsidiaries of development policy, human capital, and we need to be very serious about it. Members of lawmakers, in this world where there is a rapid change in industry and technology and a brutal competition, a very important part of employment, production, added value is provided by small and medium-scale businesses, you know, which we call the COBI. Our COBIs, however, have many problems ahead of them today. One of the most important ones is the lack of assurances in financing through loans, and they do not have the power to meet the required guarantees for loans from the SME and the credit company. Because of the banks' policy to work with zero risks, sometimes a few times as much collateral can be demanded. Of course, in recent days, the rapid increase and fluctuation in the courtship continues to be some negative in terms of the SMEs. We think there's a serious need for a loan-related work and an interest-supply model here. Precious lawmakers are another important reason why we can't achieve the expected jump from the manufacturing industry -- the ministry that sets policy today -- the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology -- which provides incentives -- the Ministry of Economics or other institutions -- and one side determines policy, one gives incentives, one gives support. However, this must be carried out under one roof, under one command. Our organised industrial zones and technology development areas, including our SMEs, also have some problems, including some of the deadlocks. These are the basic dynamics of sustainable development as well as industrialization. Such production models have been created for this purpose and have been enforced for this purpose. In order to provide better services for entrepreneurs, valued lawmakers need to be quickly resolved, as well as their problems within that scope. For one thing, these areas need to become an investment attraction. We've seen a number of production sites outside the OSB recently, and factories, companies, businesses, and businesses have fled out of the OSB. It needs to become production and export bases, where serious production and exports need to be made. And that's not enough, especially with technology development centers, research centers -- other institutions and organizations -- they need to be co-ordinated in a common way with the AR-GE, they need to be co-ordinated, they need to be connected, they need to be bonded, and they need to be quickly converted into production, they need to be among our strategic goals. I also want to talk about a current, important problem. Look, on April 1st, 2018, the EPDK will implement a notification on the tariffs. In particular, some of the problems with suppliers are happening to us, and they're probably coming to our members of the General Assembly. The OSBs are struggling to survive. Now, the production of these companies, especially small-scale companies there -- the firms I just told you about -- is almost at a standstill. The OSBs, who are going to renegotiate with the free suppliers, are somehow able to reach an agreement, so there's no problem. But otherwise, they're going to get electricity at a high price, and eventually they're going to reflect them at higher prices on other institutions, companies, which are members of their own OSB. In a way, this new pricing schedule will also cause electricity to hit the companies in the OSB. Then there will be no point in producing these companies in the OSB. Because if our goal is the right industry policy and industrialization, which is the goal, it's been written in any text since the years, then we need to make the OSB attractive. These new supplier tariffs, created by EPDK-like institutions and organisations, are unfortunately likely to hit companies in the OSB. Dear lawmakers, instead of changing OSB Law number 4562 in this regard in the period of the 57th government, we've been sitting down and making some adjustments in this law in a manner that has kept up with our age, in a holistic approach. If this is about power and government, we, the National Movement Party, are prepared to support this in the commission and the General Assembly phase. If we can do that, we'll have a chance to reach the goals set in front of our industry. Plans and programs are important in the industry, as in every field. Look, when the plans and programs are followed, these things matter, precious lawmakers. I present and tell you about this annual programme, which is signed by the ministers and the ministers sitting in the commission, in almost every budget period. Look, there are a number of measures in this, and these measures don't mean anything that repeats every year, "to the end of December." If you're not going to do it, then there's no point in putting these measures here. Look, I'll give you an example, it's on the 2017 program, it's on the 2018 program, it's probably going to be on the 2019 program. In 2017, Precaution 277 says that the effects of the OSBs will be evaluated, innovative practices will be developed. It's a beautiful, meaningful measure. Time? End of December, so it ends these days. He's put 2018 years into his schedule, which is the same sentence that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and The failure to implement them also exposes distrust of programs and government documents. If we're not going to do this, then let's not put these here, let's go public with more realistic measures. Dear lawmakers, another thing that has been re-opened by the long-standing mix of definitions is what I'd like to talk about today is what is called the car of Turkey, but what is originally called the motorcar of Turkey. Car manufacturers that control the world markets are now coming together either by buying them or by becoming partners and tightening their market share, trying to increase their share in the market. Our goal on the car should be to build projects based on alternative fuels, especially autonomous driving. We need to focus on domestic motors and domestic software, and if we can commercialize these, these three, then we can create the added value that we want. We need to prioritize the policy of investment goods and intermediaries with an important share in our production and exports, valued lawmakers. If we can reduce the dependence on imports of these sectors, then we'll be able to make sectoral progress, and we'll also be able to expose some employment increases, and we'll be able to get out of the cycle of this industrialization that our industry is in. With these thoughts, I salute our General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0003par0086	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Second speaker, Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0004par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Patent Institute for Development and Support, the Turkish Patent Institute and the Association's budgets for Turkish Patent and the Marka Foundation, as well as the National Movement Party Group for Computing and Development of Turkey's Institute for Computational Accounts of the Year 2016. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation watching over us on television. Dear MPs, today is December 19th. Before I begin my remarks, Hatay Fourways Karakese, Mustafa, Mehmet and Yusuf Aghas, I celebrate the first bullet of the national struggle on December 19, 1918, the 99th anniversary of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, four-way Black Mehmet Sergeants, Hacı Emin Hodjas, Kara Hasan, Köse Hasan, Köse Mehmets, Mustafa, Mehmet and Yusuf Aghas, all the heroes of Kuvaimilliya, with gratitude, with gratitude, with gratitude, and with respect. I give you my thanks and thanks to countless generations. Precious lawmakers must first keep and discuss their practice in standard, brand, patent procedure and in accordance with the principles of the institutions that monitor, follow, approve the concepts of the standard. Dear lawmakers, our country's economy, which has a debt-based growth structure, has had a difficult period, especially because of further public deficits over the past two years. The decline in income per person, the rising inflation, the unpredictable dollar, the rise in interest is unstoppable, as the day passes, confidence in our country's economy has decreased, as a result, uncertainty has increased for foreign investors. As a result of unemployment growth, the youth unemployment rate hit 20.6 per cent, increasing the youth unemployment rate by 20 per cent compared to last year. And I have to make it very clear here that our education policy and our production policy must complete each other, in order to create jobs for young unemployed people. Out of every five teenagers between 15 and 24 years of age in Turkey, one is unemployed. It seems difficult to find a solution to this problem within an economic structure that cannot provide permanent employment. Young people between the ages of 15 and 24 years of age have been evaluated, and one of the four young ones in this group have not been able to work at a workplace or continue to attend an educational institution. From the days of our young population's plan to rule the world, we grew up 15 years old when our most valuable asset, our human resources, were slipping away. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that we go to an economic structure that can't solve the poverty problem, create huge gaps between revenues, create a growth that creates unemployment and debt, instead of this kind of economic governance that will create structural, permanent solutions. 66% of budget revenues are collected from taxes. That's 20 points higher than OECD countries. Both taxes on consumption, indirect taxes, and workers, who are forced to pay a large portion of the tax-free income, will continue to be crushed under the burden of debt in 2018. After 2017, when the polarisation became apparent in the revenue distribution, it was clear that in 2018, income injustice would deepen. Dear lawmakers, we believe that some measures must be taken to ensure that the 4th industrial revolution, which is part of the budget presentation of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, is a very important opportunity for our country, but the opportunity does not turn into a threat. In the industrial 4.0 revolution, integration in the process of computation and Internet production will be the main process of inter-automation and processes. In order for our already-executive manufacturing industry to make the necessary breakthrough at this time, the designer, the programmer, and our human resources to implement it need to be planned correctly. While supporting the creation of the Industrial Digital Transformation Platform, I would like to reiterate that our country should not miss this opportunity to transform. Dear lawmakers, we think it is necessary for all audit results and audit reports to be sent to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which have been declared by members of the National Executive Account Act in 2016 by our National Action Party commissioners in the budget talks to ensure that the Grand National Assembly can be effectively audited, that the final bill and the Court's audit reports should be met by a separate commission to be discussed, and that all audit results and audit reports should be submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, including the issues that are in violation of the Court's legislation and public harm. An indication of the efficiency and efficiency of the audits conducted by the Court, I think, is that the issues mentioned in the reports are followed and corrected. However, as you'll soon see, I'm going to make a statement based on the Court's audit reports on the institutions, the Court is left with what we say here and what the Court has written. The institutions do not make arrangements for detection, nor did they say that last year. We think it would be a sign of public control transparency and accountability that the audits that have turned into a sort of anti-discrimination business return to their activities during the former administrations. Last year and last year, as the National Movement Party, we expect that the COSGEB to be the basic dynamic of the Turkish economy, which is able to adapt from KOSGEB to change and development, which has a high capacity for entrepreneurial, international competitiveness, adopted the understanding of institutional governance. We talked about the injustices in recruitment, the impropriety of support. If the Commission had read the Court's audit reports, as in the old years, there would have been no need to read the COSGEB reports. We can easily see that the findings in 2015 continue unresolved in 2016. So that the findings of the court's auditors are the same as the response sections of the public administration, cut and paste. In a few instances, even though KOSGEB had ten apartment heads last year, we made a determination that twelve apartment heads had been appointed. COSGEB officials also objected to the fact that such a thing did not occur. Last year's report, finding number 3 of the findings, no regulation has been made, and in the 2016 Court report, the finding has been found as number 4. The KOSGEB administration, which ignored the rights of staff members on equal positions before 2012, ignored the rights of the office's heads, as well as the documents presented in the 2016 report, which included project support in the 2016 report, without being properly identified, without questioning the current situation ahead of the support payment, without the regulation of regulations for the social and fee provisions that staff will be subject to, and in other matters, the Court reports have been voided. In addition to all of this, the main problem is that COSGEB (KoSGEB)'s data, which is at the top of the loan-giving process, can and cannot be monitored at the appropriate level after the application's use and use of loans. For example, when we look at the findings found in the Court's report for the 15,000 Turkish lira, which began with great hope, for the 15,000 KOBI, the Court states that KOSGEB had chosen to meet the criteria in the business election, while credit use was approved without sufficient control, the process was carried out in terms of transparency, the process was carried out with statements, without control. These are the consequences of the economy, which is being run on day-to-day policies. No risk analysis, no plan, no program, our motto is we did it, we did it. In the 2015 findings, for those who continue, we will often find this issue in the 2016 Court audit report, which has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I would also like to point out that I'm a member of the High Council for further testimony. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish Patent Institute, which has been called the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation, is unfortunately unable to reach its target point, which was prepared for a great sacrifice by the Industrial Commission, as well as by Sunei Property Law 6769, published in the Official Gazette, dated January 10, 2017. The demand for revision of the existing system to ensure a more qualified and effective transition to a modern testing property system has been made, which we have often heard about during law studies, but has been determined by data that the Turkish Patent and the Brand Foundation cannot improve its brand, design, patent and useful model activities, except for the geographical sign of this restructuring. Another issue, as you may recall, is that the Turkish Standards Institute voted and approved the release of some 104 million treasure purchases from the Ikraz Agreement of 7/8/1991, in Article 42 of the Bill of Law 411. We also expressed our satisfaction that this money, on behalf of the National Movement Party, would go from one pocket to another in the pocket of the state, would be supported from here, from the bench, and would be part of the proposed bill. The idea was that this money would be used in investments that TSE had planned to make in the years to come. But we also can't understand that 104 million in TSE activity reports are back in revenues before they're out of the institution's budget. TSE is an institution based on public benefit, which is a nonprofit organization that is in our memories, in our memories, trying to burn with its own oil. It is clear that the Court must question the way this income is saved, even if its institutions have followed such a course in order to overstate its profitability rate. It is also observed that the Court's supervisors did not show in this audit report their attention on certain issues that were detected last year and unresolved, so they do not have one type of application during and during the field practices of the court inspectors. It is also remarkable that some data from the institute's own operational reports are not included in the Court's audit report. For example, the TSE has been much more profitable, according to its own report, as a result of the lack of nearly 50 million capital costs and some other expense pens in the Court report. Another important issue that is not clearly included in the Court audit report and the TSE report is its participation, such as ICAS, Sojuztest. We asked a lot of questions about this last year, and we specifically requested to access numerical data on activities conducted by ICAS. If there is no money transfer to the participants, it is also difficult to obtain any information on the participation of the TSE. In a way that explains the status of investments made by the institute, the lack of information about income and expense situations or activities can lead to other questions. Is there a buddy sergeant relationship in these joints? Who's working? It's impossible to understand that even those who fail are being eliminated from accountability and are trying to ensure their future, not the Institute's. Can you spend your own money like this for any unsuccessful investment? Why does the institute need to open a branch to its own representatives abroad? If the ICAS had any success in Turkey, we'd like to know, and we'd be very happy to hear it. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to point out that I care deeply about the concept of the country that determines the standards involved in our Minister's 2018 budget presentation. After being a full member of European standard preparation agencies, such as CENT and CENTLEC, the Court's performance inspection report comes up with another interesting assessment, as we are considered to be the fruits of years of labour. According to the performance audit report, 90 per cent of the findings identified are related to standard preparation activities. Unfortunately, even in the basic function of a standard-setting, performance-based management education institution, there is no pursuit of efficiency, efficiency. Again, it is also remarkable that from 2002 to 2003, there was no participation in the CEN-SENELEC meetings, which included many of the major producers from universities, ministries, private sectors. I'd also like to explain why we're being sensitive about this issue: Turkey has not yet entered the European Union, but has achieved a great success in 2002, and has been a full member of TSE, CEN and CENTLEC in 2012. This means that the content of European standards can also be reflected by the Turkish industry. However, the lack of active participation in the meetings, the lack of active work of the mirror committees, the lack of any activity to track performance in the Court's report, Turkey is unable to assess a major opportunity, not the Turkish Standards Institute. The protocol, signed in 2010 with Muallimköy Tech Development Zone Executive Asş, has been decided that TSE will be the founding partner with a 21 per cent stake in the company. As a result of further increase in the company's capital, the share of the company's partnership has been reduced to 2%. There is still no clear information on the causes and consequences of this matter. In the next budget, hopefully, there will be some explanations. Last year, we once again explained the importance of merit by betting that unfair authorities and appointments have had a negative effect on institutional performance. I'd like to tell you again this year, but we don't have time. Dear lawmakers, problems are becoming permanent and the solution is difficult every day because of the government's implementations and day-to-day policies in the politicalised public institutions. The structural problems of our economy continue to grow. Growth instability continues, targets fail to meet, exchange rates overlaps and fluctuations, Turkish lira overvalues...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0005par0120	Mr. Ahrazoglu, finish up.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0004par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. ...a high increase in debt. These developments increase the fragility of the economy, increase the risk premium. Due to poor economic performance, the Tenth Development Plan has failed to achieve its goals. 2023 targets have become unreachable targets. It is also remarkable that there are no effective measures against corrupt urbanization, zoning, environmental and water pollution. Again, the lack of willingness to comply with the Court's audit findings appears to be a common misbehavior. The budget of 2018 is a budget that is unable to establish the balance of resources and spending, signaling that fiscal discipline has been abandoned, has no healthy and strategic priorities, and therefore gives resources to non-profit areas, providing additional tax and similar burdens to our citizens, making unfair taxes more unfair to budget predictions, without lasting impact on the welfare of our citizens. With this budget, our dear nation thinks it's impossible to reach happy tomorrow... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the budget to be a blessing to our state, to our nation, and to salute the mighty Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0006par0128	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Third speaker, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0007par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on behalf of our group over the Forest and Water Affairs Ministry, Forest General Directorate, State Water Affairs General Directorate, Meteorology General Directorate, Turkey's Water Institute. I hereby salute you all again. We've brought it up over and over in the past years, especially in our region, we've told Mr. Secretary that there are some problems with irrigation and unfinished areas, but we need to make sure that the Seven Eye Dam is completed as soon as possible and that 750,000 acres of land can be watered from there as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, the Seven-Eyes Dam is continuing. He says, "Thank God, maybe he's contributing to it, but it's better to finish it soon, it's too slow." I mean, there's still enough to water 20,000 acres of land so far, which hasn't been completed, so last time I went, I looked, I looked, the pipes are just being put in. If you leave this at the mercy of the contractor, it'll take three, four years, maybe five years. For him, immediately, with the Ministry channel, the DSI General Directorate must put pressure on this place, if necessary, increase the price of the tender, or end the Seven-Eye Dam as soon as possible, quickly as possible. Because that 750,000 acres needs to be watered. When that land is watered, it will make a huge contribution to the country's economy, and it will also give a major contribution to the local farmer because the yield of the watery land is not the same as the yield of the dry land. As I said, the country will make a very important contribution to our economy and to our farmers there. Again, I've already told you about these underground drainage channels, Mr. Secretary, in my past years of speaking. You need to finish the underground drainage ducts as soon as possible. Why do you have to finish it? Because the watering ground is growing more and more barren, and the ground water is rising more and more. If we don't finish this base drain and drain those waters into normal drainage, those finite, beautiful landscapes will lose its value by becoming barren. So, we need to finish these base drainages as soon as possible, and we need to auction off the places that haven't been done. It's been done so fast in the past years, but it's been done so heavily, so coy at this time, you need to speed it up so that those fields don't get barren, we need to save those lands as soon as possible. Again, normal drainages, open drainages, after years of the footwaters of all the fields run out of soil, and as a result of the end of the grass and reeds in this soil puddle, they are not working enough at the moment, so they can't function at the point of draining the root water from normal fields into the canals or into the rivers. Those drains need to be cleaned as soon as possible. Oh, you're going to say that these belong to the irrigation unit. You know that. This can only be cleaned through the DSI with large-wave scoops. For him, these drainage ducts are also useful to be cleaned and served by our farmers as soon as possible. I've said it every time, and I'm saying it again, they come from the Aslanta Dam and water the plains of Ceyhan and the plains of ovarians, and they flood the wastewaters of some cities. Mr. Secretary, the DSI has started in the Cevdetiye regulator, but he's very coy and he's moving very slowly. If we finish that decontamination system as soon as possible, the sewers won't run down the drain. Thus, the level of algae in the canals will be low. When the rate of algae increases, during the summer when the farmer needs most water, corn will be watered, cotton will be watered, suddenly a study of seaweed medicine is being done, and water cuts when the farmer needs water the most. One day the water shortage reaches the bottom farmer three days later, four days later. Thus, three days' delay in our corn - producing farmers causes a significant loss of products. Mr. Secretary, we'd appreciate it if we could do some work on this. So we've said it every time, and we'll keep saying it. Again, the 2/B properties... 2/B was a law that you prepared, that we all co-operated with here. But there are some very important problems with the 2/B properties. In the latest bag of legislation, there was an arrangement for the sale of land 2/B within the capital. This is a positive and beautiful development. However, the rental costs of 2/B land are very high. I mean, normally the farmer's rent from a citizen is worth more than the rent. The man goes, sits in coffee, asks a citizen who has nothing to do with farming in coffee, and he says to himself, "Ya, my brother's going for 500 liras to brag about." Write 500 liras. Yes, have a heart, my friend, and look into it. There are district agricultural managers in that area, there are agricultural rooms in that area, there are people farming in that area. Sit with these, consult with them. A common number will neither burn the farmer nor burn our state -- not like shish or kebab -- let's not make a nice, average number like skewered kebabs. But today, on watery land, 400,000 liras -- the old number -- are being paid 200,000 liras and 150 thousand liras in normal land. Look, there's no way a farmer can produce and make money at these prices, Mr. Secretary. I've told Mr. Finance Minister a few times if your government does a study on this. I'm bringing this law up, especially since it's your Ministry, which means you've drawn it up and taken it out. Please, your government must make an effort to create a price that protects the farmer, protects the person who makes it. Again, there are some very important problems with the sale of 2/B properties. Look, the land of 2/B, the plateau, the part of the forest area that's been sold out, is kind of over, but there's a lot of serious problems going on in the area with the treasure fields. I mean, they're willing to pay a price, which, oh, my God, it's not like they're talking about the interest lobby that you're always talking about, and they're insisting that the farmer can't buy this field. I mean, now, look, the village of Threedutyeshilova is the best example of that. Please investigate how many farmers in the village of Threedutyeshilova have not been able to buy their land, even though they deserve it at the price of accretion. I'm telling the esteemed Adana MPs, I'm telling the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, please investigate, how many farmers don't get their land even though they deserve it? He couldn't even take 30 percent of his own field.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0008par0145	It's not 2/B, it's treasure land.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0007par0146	Treasure land, treasure land. Sold in the same status, Mr. Secretary. Look, 30 percent of them didn't even get their own farm. Why didn't he get it? Because the price was raised so high that he gave up, he couldn't afford it, he left, he made a deal with an interest dealer. That lender came in, bought his farm as a trink. Look, my word's on the table. If there's anything wrong with my promise, I'm willing to apologize to whoever proves it. But I'm saying it for the truth I know when I say it. So go, look, look, if there's anything wrong with this, I'm willing to apologize. Yeah, well, we want the farmer to have it, bro, so the manufacturer can have it. The man sold his animal, sold his tractor, sold his house, sold his house, left, excuse me, settled in the barn, tried to live in the barn, but still couldn't buy his farm. Yeah, it's a shame about these people, isn't it? I mean, they're making a hell of a lot of money. We've got to get this track price to a reasonable level that the farmer can take. If we can't do that... as Mr. President always said -- and I'm sure he meant well -- you know what the fiscal lobby says? After that -- and I tell you every time -- some of them give up, shut up, sit down, but some of them spill blood, Mr. Secretary. I don't want to give my farm to the person who's trying to buy my farm. Three people died at Adana Seyhan. So three people died in the village of Adalı in Karataş. Please, let's run the national estate and commissions in favor of our farmer. If we don't protect the people who produce it, protect the people who produce it, where do we go? You sit in the morning, you have a very good breakfast, you sit at noon, you eat very good meat, you eat vegetables. Have you thought about who makes these?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0009par0150	Serbia, Georgia!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0007par0151	Farmers make them. Yeah, the farmer's the only one who doesn't give a shit. But if you do not protect the farmer, if you do not protect the people who produce him, let him come and take it. If you act rationally, what will happen to the people who actually produce in this country, the people who work, the people who deserve it? So we need to protect them and make arrangements in their favor as soon as possible. Again, we call it national agricultural policies. I mean, we've been talking about people who produce. So, is that what we're doing? We're really protecting the people who produce? Look, today, when the farmer's input costs are at the highest, he's got diesel and fertilizer... Now, now, I've said this a few times, but I think it's a good thing to say it again, in case it appeals to your conscience, in case there's a softness in your conscience; or now, yacht and cotra owners, people who buy yachts for $20 million, $30 million, use diesel from $1,700,000, my farmer puts diesel in his tractor for $5 million. What's the price of the tractor? If you sell the farmer's farm, he won't buy one yacht, but now the farmer puts the diesel at $5 million, the yacht and the kotra owners put it at $1,700,000. Yes, even in Greece, the economy sank. Even in Greece, you call it, the farmer uses diesel at $1,700,000, and uses agricultural diesel. Now, under the circumstances, our farmers have to compete with the farmers of other countries. Well, you give the farmer this opportunity, see if the farmer can compete with the American farmer, the farmer of Greece, or the farmer of other countries. Our farmer, thank God, has become a professional in this matter, with the ability to plant everything, the knowledge, the savings, but the Ministry of Agriculture and the government have to support it. Now, fertilizer... you've privatized all the fertilizer factories, sold them all. And then you went and joined a fertilizer factory in Iran. At the time, Minister Mehdi Eker said: "Our farmer will use very cheap fertilizer." I'm glad he said he would use cheap fertilizer. We're using the world's most expensive fertilizer right now. So the DAP fertilizer is $1,600,000, and I don't know if you're aware of it or not. How much is the wheat? 900,000 liras in wheat season, 940,000 beers. Why? Because Mr. Secretary, look, I don't have any problems with the Minister himself, he's a good mayor, he's a good doctor, but we have a problem with his policies. So you sign wheat imports when the wheat harvest begins, Mr. Secretary, when the corn harvest begins, you sign corn imports. Well, what kind of understanding is that? So, are you trying to eliminate the manufacturer, or just give the entire bill to the manufacturer? So inflation would go down, corn prices would go down, wheat prices would go down, inflation would go down. So, I'm asking you, did the chips go cheap, did the bread go cheap, did the pretzels go cheap, or did the pasta go cheap? Which one got cheap? So if you get up and import wheat in the wheat harvest, import corn in the corn harvest, that's to punish the manufacturer directly; there's no other meaning. For him, my dear friends, look, I speak to your consciences. I'm not talking about opposition here. God damn me if I'm talking about opposition. I speak as a farmer. I'm a farmer myself, speaking for the farmer. My heart is burning. We produce corn, corn, corn cost 850,000 liras, 900,000 liras, an import law, a signature, corn fell for 700,000 liras a month ago. What the hell is this? Mr. Secretary, if your conscience lifts this, there's nothing I can say, I swear. That's not gonna happen. I mean, do you know how much corn is right now, Mr. Secretary? It came out of the farmer's hands. How much? 850,000 lira corn.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0010par0156	85 cents.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0007par0157	Who won, who lost? Winner, loser farmer. Yeah, that doesn't make sense, no. So the wheat was sold for $940,000, $950,000, and now the wheat is worth $1,100,000. I'm asking you who lost, who won. I mean, for God's sake, let's act in the favor of our farmer and protect our farmer. So, now, I'm telling you, every time, turn on the Agriculture Loan to cheapen the fertilizer prices, brother. So when the farmer doesn't need fertilizer, the fertilizer goes down to 800,000 liras, it goes down to 750 thousand liras, but when the farmer needs fertilizer, all of a sudden, it goes up to $1,200,000. When the market is starting to rise, let's give the farmer a low price for fertilizer, give the farmer a low price for diesel. Yeah, what's this Farm Loan for, so what's this Agriculture Loan for? No, we're not doing any of that. Sir, he's autonomous. Let's not autonomize, sir, let's make a new law. Let's get it out. It's not that hard to make a law. I mean, how can a farmer throw fertilizer in his wheat and compost in his corn for $1,200,000 when he's saving urea fertilizer for $750,000? Why shouldn't the farmer use the fertilizer for $750,000? So while we're supposed to protect the manufacturer, unfortunately, instead of protecting the manufacturer, we're protecting the brokers, protecting the traders, protecting the lenders, protecting the money makers. Now, meat imports... So let our people eat cheap meat, Mr. Secretary, you're right, that's right. Our people deserve the best of everything. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's not about importing meat. So if you're going to import something, you might as well import it. Raise the number of heifers to 5 million, 6 million. Sir, the young from this would have at least two million and a half million male cubs. Turkey already needs 2.5 million male animals. When a male animal was slaughtered in Turkey... Plus, I've always said, you've made the Meat and Milk Foundation a complete waste. All he's doing is importing right now. Either let the Meat and Milk Foundation direct it from the farmer, cut it, direct it to the consumer, win the manufacturer and win the consumer. It's not that hard to do that, Mr. Secretary. But the easiest way is to go, sir, import meat from Serbia, go, import meat from somewhere. My manufacturer buys five thousand liras -- five billion liras, old money -- and he looks at it, and he raises it, and he feeds it, and he sells it, and he takes it away, and he gets $9,000. Oh, my God, is that a joke? So when you cheapen the bait prices, when you open the mera, if the meat is still expensive, then let's punish the manufacturer, but when the bait prices are expensive, what does it mean to punish the manufacturer when there's no pasture? I don't understand that logic. So the TIGEMs... which ones make a profit? Plant the barley, sir, sow the barley, it's already hurting, it's hurting in the farmer's favor. Sunsun -- now $1,200,000 -- at a low price of barley. THE TIGEM is already losing; let it sow, let it sow barley; it will hurt in the farmer's favor, and it will hurt in the manufacturer's favor. Cheapen the bait prices. If you say meat prices are still expensive, let's all punish the manufacturer together. But if you can't make it and get it back, you'll never be able to get it back from animalism again. Yeah, it's a shame to say, no one wants to smell that. I mean, the guy's been dealing with animals from morning till night-- food, water, medicine, and that smell, the fly. So you punish people who produce these conditions as if they were criminals. It's a shame, it's a sin.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0011par0164	Here, complete it, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0007par0165	I'm completing it. For God's sake, let's protect our productive people. We need production. Cari is the only institution that doesn't give away food and farming. For him, the man feeds his beast, and he earns a penny out of it; and he sows wheat, and he earns a penny out of it; and he sows corn, and he earns a penny out of it; and he sows cotton, and he earns a penny. And look, you have to bring in this basin-based support, bonus support. In order to protect cotton business in Turkey, you must also do so because Turkey imports $2 billion in cotton, which is a very heavy cost to Turkey. Our farmer has the power to produce it; our land is available, our air and water are available. In that sense, I repeat to your consciences: please, let's take care of the people who produce it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0012par0172	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Yilmaz, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0013par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. The budget for the Ministry of Forestry is being discussed. Of course, thousands of forest engineers are being employed through the service of these forestry offices and companies, which are about to be used as military delegates in the choice of forest engineers. Now, I'm calling from here to the Minister: Mr. Secretary, you're going to have to take these as a staff in the subcontractor's law. You haven't had a forest engineer in three years. Now, next week, the Forest Engineers' Room elections begin. The Director General of the Forest you appointed is there, holding meetings with forest engineers, pressuring forest engineers. There's no such thing as a hundred and seventy-eight years of forest headquarters tradition. You can't get a choice by taking power from the seat, pressuring forest engineers -- you're doing this three times -- by putting pressure on them. Director General of the Forest, if he's too curious, he'll be running for office. If he can get a vote from forest engineers when he's nominated, let him be the head of the Forest Engineers Room. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Forest Engineers' Room is an independent association, with the forestmen's faces flowing. He can't do it with oppression, persecution, intimidation. May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0014par0184	But, Mr. Yilmaz, I promised you a minute. It's already on the record. Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0013par0185	And since it's relevant... The ministry budget is being discussed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0014par0186	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0013par0187	The Ministry of Forestry is responsible for protecting the forests, and the forest is responsible for increasing its existence, but for ten years, it's been the darkest period in the history of forestry. We're going through a process where foresters are scattered around like freckles, and the pressure is getting abnormally high. After July 15th, a Yenikapi spirit began, but pressure, blackmail, intimidation, blackmail, retirement, co-operation continues rapidly in the Ministry of the Forest. I'm asking you, is the forest ministry trying to be controlled by the salt spirit when it's all about the yendoor spirit? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0014par0189	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, fourth and final speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0015par0242	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting in 2018. On behalf of my party group and myself, I salute you and the nation's master, the Turkish farmer. The Honorable General Assembly, agriculture, an important, privileged sector, food safety, food safety, and the ecological balance of our future generations. Therefore, we say that politics should not be made over; at least that is the current situation and conditions of agriculture. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we address agrarian-friendly consciences: let's not call this the ruling opposition, let's meet in the right, let's solve the problems of Turkish agriculture and farmers together. Dear lawmakers, with this budget, we will be authorizing the central government to spend $762 billion and 800 million. About 3.6 per cent of this authority, or 21 billion, 700 million, will be given for the Ministry of Agriculture. According to 2017, the ministry's budget has increased by 11 per cent. So in terms of GDP, there's no significant difference over the past few years, it's around 6.3 per thousand, which was 6.4 per thousand in the 2002 budget. Apparently, there is no positive discrimination in agriculture in the 2018 budget. The bottom line is, I hope 2018 doesn't make a search for 2017 in agriculture. Dear lawmakers, the problem with agriculture is not the kind of problems that can be solved with the ministry budget or a little more support. We have a sense of agriculture, a problem of understanding. There's a cross-eyed look at agriculture and the farmer, and we need to fix it first. It's not that easy either. Of course, we will address those who are asleep, and we know that we can't wake those who pretend to be asleep. Dear friends, it's a serious mistake to view agriculture as just an economic sector. Therefore, agriculture is judged and judged only by economic measures, such as profitability, comparative advantages, rational resource distribution. Of course, we don't reject these criteria. Our objection is that agriculture can only be taken as an economic sector and carried on. Agriculture is a fundamental sector that contributes to all economic sectors. It is also the social sector, the environmental sector, even the national security sector. These facts should not be ignored as they are being analyzed and synthesized about agriculture, evaluated and judged. A simple example is that the conditioning taught by the scale economy has destroyed income agriculture, rancherism and small family operating. We believe, of course, that agricultural population should be reduced to proportional levels, but we think it should be in the way other sectors are taking it instead of pushing it out of the agricultural sector. In the last 14 years, about 1 million families have left agriculture management. There are no young people left in the villages. The future of farming is indeed at stake and threatened. Over the last ten years, there has been a reduction of 2,200,000 hectares in planting and planting areas. There's no one left in the villages but old and old. The sustainability of small animalism is taking risks every day. There's no shepherd, no zookeeper, no breeder. We all know that if it weren't for refugee shepherds, we'd call the spirit of mera livestock the Fatiha. During the 57th century, a project that we considered important as the National Movement Party was the Project I Wanted to Be satisfied in where I was born, but unfortunately this project was unfinished. Dear friends, agricultural production is a difficult job; once abandoned, when the production system is broken, it's hard to come back. The biggest danger of this departure is that it distances our people from the philosophy of production, from the mentality of production. Today, small family businesses that we don't like at all, even livelihood agricultural enterprises, have very important functions. At least those who grew up in these families, at a younger age, were learning by living, seeing that the seed was cast into the soil, that the plant was produced from seed, that it had turned into food, that the animal had passed through its throat, that it had turned into meat, into milk, and into calf, and into lamb, and that it had become money, and that it had been made a living in this way. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, a significant portion of these children today are experiencing cultural disconnection pains in the suburbs of the metropolitan area. Again, they are now busy monitoring aid tools from the metropolitan municipalities, as the villages, the symbol of consumption, are now transformed into neighborhoods. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, those who still insist on it are waiting for a cure from here, but I regret to inform you that there is no such option in this budget. Let everyone understand this, and let them know that family enterprises are what the COBIs are in general economy. In fact, if you remember the 1994, 2001 crises, family businesses, agricultural enterprises, have had a very serious contribution. Today, we will face serious problems without village and rural support behind millions of minimum wage workers. The strategy of a national and domestic agriculture, Minister, is to say that the family business should be first. With methods and organizations such as clustering and co-operativeization, the disadvantages of being small can be transformed into advantages. Paradise, the capital Alparslan Türkesh, which has been left to us, we call it the cities of my village, whether you call it the towns of the village, or call it the centers of the rural attractions, but must be built into places that will live in the countryside as people, and they must be weaved with the pattern of production. Otherwise, Turkish agriculture will become the occupational area of global enterprises, and agricultural land will become balance pens. Dear friends, popular belief and belief suggest that agriculture has low added value. Agricultural additives are actually a hoax. Agriculture is mixed with the economic added value of farming activities and the added value of agriculture. Agriculture is such a business that a significant portion of its contributions are transformed into the economy through other sectors. There's no way they can be bonded for money. The accurate calculation of agricultural additive value can only be subject to alternative costs. For example, I'd like to ask if anyone knows what the negative impact of GMOs and unsanitary products, which we import cheaper than the outside, is on the loss of labor, diagnosis and treatment costs. When it's done, it doesn't make any difference. It's important to ask those who say, "What do you lose when it's not done?" In short, however, countries with very high-income value and high-intensity leadership do not give up on agriculture, which is very low in value. Dear lawmakers, we can't agree on support in three areas, we're arguing on the purpose, quantity and quality. In order to satisfy the safe food needs of 80 million of our people, to facilitate food transport, to ensure the continuity of agricultural activities is the main goal of support. It may vary according to the following support model, but the support is usually done through the farmer. Of course, agricultural support is not a grant given to the farmer, as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting says in the budget brochure. The farmer's very uncomfortable with it. Minister, our farmers, we consume 3.5 to 4 billion litres of diesel for agricultural purposes. We're paying for this diesel in advance for WTV and VAT. The taxes we pay are the numbers that are put in the budget and given back to us as agricultural support, so you're giving us back what you've taken from us, and you're putting us on trial in the collective conscience. We have a request from you, that the same system be applied to yachters and cotras. And from the yachters, from the cots, from the SVTs, from the VATs, and from the VATs, put them in the same budget, as they pay them, and give them as a gift, and say, "We support our yachters and our cots, and we give them this much." They say, "Let us make our dues lawful." Yes, there's a current transfer between the cuts through the budget. Such transfers must be accepted by all parts of society, so they must be approved by the apocalyptic conscience. As the National Movement Party, we call it the culture of economic reconciliation; its essence is based on the establishment of the balance of blessings and burdens. The purpose and importance of agricultural support must be well explained to society. What will happen if we do not contribute? Everyone must understand the answer to the question. No one must forget that we pay for unsupported milk through meat. Dear lawmakers, we're doing agricultural support. The government says the support has been greatly increased. In 2018, we raise that number to 14.5 billion, with 1.8 billion agricultural support in 2002. And in the years in between, we've made significant increases, they say. Yeah, that's right, based on the numbers. These numbers are not different from the 2002 figures compared to the GDP. If we look at the GDP rate of the agricultural budget, we'd say 2002 is better. If you look at the calculations on the OECD, you can say 2002 is better than 2017. So here, as it works out for us, we can actually figure out the number we want. My goal here is not to discuss it over numbers. But I'm sure you valued lawmakers are curious about the contradiction between the support reported on paper and its reflection in the field. Mr. Finance Minister and Mr. Foods, Agriculture and Animal Minister have discussed the $103 billion grant in budget talks over the past 15 years. When you look at it as payments, yes, it's true; the monetary statement is wrong. Why is it wrong? Because they're also saying the money they paid 15 years ago was worth that day's money. So what I'm trying to say is, actually, if we're going to do it right with the money today, it's much bigger, much more. So the budget has these benefits and paid off, that's true. But -- please listen to this very well -- the contradiction comes from here: agricultural support is paid from two sources; one is the state, the other is the consumer. The state pays through the budget, the consumer pays through the prices. When we came to power in 1999, we launched a study on support. We found that only 13 per cent of the agricultural benefits paid that day reached the farmer, 87 per cent of them moved elsewhere, and since 2001, the funding was heavily paid by the budget model. This was important for both budget management and financial management; it was predictable, predictable. Therefore, the losses of the market regulatory institutions were removed at that time. In terms of external competition and exports, product prices have been targeted to adapt to world prices. That's why the MHP developed the project to adapt input prices to world prices. The problem is: Since 2002, the farmer has not received proper price support, so the product has not paid, costs have not been reduced, and the market damage has been too much. The budget has been heavily funded, but this support has failed to meet the loss of price support. Mr. Secretary, that's the problem, so that's the reason for the argument between opposition and power. Yes, budget funds have increased, but no price support has been made. Our biggest problem in recent years is that products don't pay. Look, I did a computation. These two calculations are here, so I can give them to anyone who wants them. The farmer has lost $32 billion in wheat in the last 14 years alone. Yes, we call it 103 billion in five years, but it's only 32 billion in that time. Here's the check. I can give it to anyone who wants it. You do, you do the rest. He's got 90 billion on banks and Agriculture Loan Cooperatives, the farmer's debt. On one side the farmland is falling, on the other, the crops are falling, the countryside is coming down. Dear MPs, of course, the quality of support is as important as the quantity. We need to remember that all the people who used this loan were bankrupt on a credit loan with zero credits, and we need to know that the way these supports are being provided is important. It's registered in the support house, but the people who used this loan went bankrupt, unfortunately. Look, a quick sample, wheat strategic product. I'm just giving it as an example. Wheat prices have been suppressed for years. When asked why, we must consider the poor's bread, so it is called. Dear MPs, look, 1 kilogram of bread is made of 1 kilogram of wheat. 1 kilogram of bread is $5, 1 kilogram of wheat is 90 cents. The cost of wheat in a 250 gram bread is only 23 cents. Mr. Secretary, if he opened the doors of the office and gave away the wheat for free, the bread, which is $1.25, would only be $1.2 cents. Last year, we said we'd give you 25 cents more; if it had been given, it'd be 3.5 cents to reflect on the bread. Looking back in 2002, the cost of the wheat in the bread was 25 percent, 18 percent today. What this means is that according to 2002, the farmer sells his wheat cheaper, but the poor eat poor bread more expensive, and I wanted to bring that to your attention. Dear lawmakers, there's no need to explain the other manipulations and perceptions that have been run against the manufacturers, but let me just say that in the agricultural sector, the most unclaimed part of the agricultural shareholders is the farmer's section, the lobby of other parts is very strong, they're found deep in the lobby. So on the one hand, while you're waiting for the 21 million tons of wheat harvest, on the other hand, they get you to sign the decree that reduces the customs tax on wheat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I ask that the budget be a blessing, first to the Ministry, to our farmers and to the great Turkish nation, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit01spe0016par0264	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0016par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, it's the Republican People's Party Group's turn to speak. Mr. Tahsin Tarhan is the first speaker. Mr. Tarhan, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0017par0009	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 2018 budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we've been discussing budgets made by the AKP government under the Supreme Assembly for 15 years. Every budget period, numbers, rates, development reports are coming forward, but the business, the manufacturer, the industrialist's problems are not solved. The AKP government has brought Turkey to its side, even if it is in China. In a situation like this, we're trying to talk about science, technology, industry. If you overthink what the Prime Minister says when you're doing all the world's IT technology, you'll get rid of it. I don't want to embarrass you by saying that every election period, you've been slapped 47m euros on domestic automobiles, you've signed the worst industrial construction in the history of the republic, the factories on organised industrial sites are either for sale or for rent.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0018par0012	Oh, come on! What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0017par0013	Dear lawmakers, as we say, development, development of Turkey goes unindustrial, industry is our lifeblood. As we say, you continue to create bureaucratic barriers to industrialization. In the history of the Republic, industry hasn't been as hard on the AKP as it has been, the industrialist has never been so oppressed. Because of AKP's ranta-based policies, the company produced 21.239 in the first nine months of 2017 was closed. Corruption has begun, and with it has brought twisted urbanization. If all Turkey today has distorted urbanization, it is responsible for its love of rant power. We all know that without production, the economy doesn't grow, unemployment doesn't solve, poverty doesn't disappear. If you do not remove the State of Emergency, which you have shielded yourself and the Palace, if you use democracy in essence, so-called economic growth will not be possible, nor will it be possible to produce science. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, you can't invest in an unknown country, which is the State of Emergency, which is not clear what the exchange rate will be tomorrow, who will be arrested and whose property will be seized, and you can't increase production. The State of Emergency must be removed immediately. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've done everything you can to get the rectors -- even the elects -- to come to the universities, one of the most important addresses for the development of science. The government brought this matter to the House before and then withdrew it. You are trying to do what you want with a decree of the law, knowing that the State of Emergency is an opportunity. As scientists say peace, peace, you put them in jail. You're turning academics into subcontractors. You're appointing an ally to every university. Is that how you're going to improve science? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, organised industrial areas are severely injured. Energy, SEC, employer's share, rising rates, interest rates, and dozens of kinds of tax burdens are literally at the throat of the investor, the manufacturer.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0019par0022	You make it sound like the 1970s.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0017par0023	Anyway, when we looked at budget targets, 2023 was abandoned.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0019par0024	It's not the 1970s!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0017par0025	When we looked at the estimated budget of 2019, 2020, a discount was made. Shouldn't the budget increase in order to increase investment? Mr. Secretary, does the Ministry of Industry predict that the economy is going to go bad, which is the way it's planned? The Ministry's 2017 budget, except for its subsidiaries, amounted to 5 billion Turkish liras; with funding and transfers, is close to $6 billion. The $2.5 billion of this grant seems to have been spent on investments. I'd like to ask you: what investment did you make with $2.5 billion of Turkish dollars as the ministry when you were discussing the World Industry 4.0 revolution? What industry have you become? What scientific research did you provide financial support for? What level of science and technology did you move to in Turkey in particular? (HPP) While the world's drones were preparing to serve taxis, we waited seven years to build a domestic car and were defrauded by 47m euros. As long as that understanding continues, instead of producing science, we will continue to import hay. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] The honorable MPs are worthy of humanity's ignorance. Earthquakes, fires, not floods, ignorance is a disaster. The candle goes out at night, but it comes out at dawn. It's a disgrace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The 2018 budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is 11 billion 500 million Turkish liras. Good luck with our country. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0020par0033	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. The second speaker is Denizli MP Kazim lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. lion, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0021par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology's Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration. You know, that budget is $2 billion, $20 million. Of course, with such a small budget, it's not possible to support, develop, and sustain really small-scale businesses. And if you've actually moved the loans that are meant to be given to many businesses as lifeblood without being investigated, without being investigated, by giving them to your supporters, then it's not possible for a normal tradesman to develop, work, and live in the Turkish market. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In order for our tradesmen to live, for businesses to live, there is a need for research to be done in a way that is given to whoever really needs it. If you haven't done that... he's asked a lot of questions on the commission, and he's asked a lot of questions, and I said, "Have you done any research on how these KOSGEB loans were given to whom?" I still haven't been able to answer, and I'm afraid I haven't been able to do an investigation into these wrong loans, regarding those people who have given them to their friends, acquaintances? I'm waiting for his answer, Mr. Secretary. I've sent the answer.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0022par0043	They give it to the presidents of the AKP, to the mayors, and they don't give it to anyone else.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0023par0045	Don't be so unfair!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0024par0046	You are the ones who are unjust. We only say what is wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0025par0047	Precious lawmakers, at a point where the market has been blocked, really, without looking at the country's facts, without increasing production, increasing production, without facilitating the sale of this, without increasing our exports, constantly promoting exports based on imports, our exports have increased, and thus our exports have increased, saying, there is no way for an economy to live for a really long time. Your ministry must first demonstrate a study that will pay for Turkey's import by increasing its exports further. In addition, for our tradesmen to live, Turkey must be saved from this structure, which will allow the store to close, close, close the tailor, and close the barber, as the shopping malls have been dragging on for years, opening at every corner. If you don't do this, I want you to know clearly, Dear Minister, that there's more to be closed, that there's more to be closed, that there's a shop, that it's closed. Yes, dear friends, dear congressman friends; now, the tradesman is the true pillar of our country. If you're supporting the tradeshop where you're supporting it, you're not allowing it to live, you're letting it close its business, and you're watching the AVMs, I'd like to point out that the economy of Turkey would really be very difficult to live in. Furthermore, the lack of support for our farmer, the loss of our farmer, the loss of the money, the cost of the farmer, if we can't win, if we can't bring the value of the farmer out of the ground, if our shopkeeper can't shop, if he can't pay the debt, then it's not possible for this market to return comfortably, and that's what Turkey's going to do today. The market is now at a choke point. We need to get through this as soon as possible. I'd also like to say that a work that can pay off their debts, that can really live, that it needs a new work, a new plan, a program, to increase exports, to make extraordinary sacrifices at such an extraordinary time, by reducing taxes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out that when we really look at it, many businesses are closed, facing executions. Now you need to see that market debt is increasing, that the number of companies that are closing has increased to 11.502, that the companies that actually close in a year are increasing, that there are fewer openings.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0026par0051	The number is always too much, Mr. Kazim.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0027par0052	It's tripled.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0025par0053	You can't really get anywhere by saying 11 percent because it doesn't have a market reflection, it doesn't reflect in the business world. My dear friends, there is absolutely no way that the worker or the farmer or the farmer or the farmer or the industrialist or the exporter would get a cut of this growth. Therefore, we have grown our industry, we have developed our economy. You cannot fool our citizens, you cannot stall them. You'll have to give up that thought now. Many of our companies, many of our tradesmen, are unable to pay their taxes. We even have tradesmen who can't afford to pay the insurance premiums.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0028par0055	Here, complete it, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0025par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in such a process, I would like to point out that many companies have actually been wiped out, and that from 2010 to June 2017, a total of 17123 companies have been locked in the manufacturing industry, and you need to see these. Dear lawmakers, if the economy is going really well, if the markets are good, everyone should say, oh, they need to relax. I don't see any cuts relaxing. In addition, high-value lawmakers, there is no way to rule our country in an extraordinary way in a longer process. There's no legal security left in this environment. In a country with no legal security, neither foreign investors or businesses in Turkey are eager to make new investments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I would like to point out that Turkey needs to be normalized by quickly giving up its extraordinary application of state of mind, which will break the spirit of the business. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0029par0063	Thank you, Mr. lion. Third speaker, İstanbul MP Didem Engin. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0030par0068	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the world is experiencing a stunning technological revolution, but Turkey is far, far away from these developments. I believe that those who will write Turkey's history in the century of technological revolutions, as well as the rise, pause and decline in the Ottoman Empire, will describe the AKP's only 15 years of power as a second recession. Our country is experiencing a period of decline in education, culture, art, law, democracy, freedom, technology, agriculture, industry, energy; in foreign policy, we are dealing with a Turkey that is isolated in its region. It's a Turkey filled with intellectuals who think about their dungeons and approach them critically, where academic freedoms are destroyed in their universities, where investments have come to a halt, where growing unemployed and desperate people are filling their streets day after day, when investments have come to a halt, in debt, and in hot money clamps. But what you can't do in 15 years is easy to say, 15 years. For example, as South Korea did Singapore, we could prepare a vision of educational development and invest in our future generations. So we wouldn't be last on the PISA test, and instead of Singapore, we could win first place. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Like China, America, and many other countries, we could be obsessed with artificial intelligence, like Japan, with RD, robotics, food technology, stem cell technology, digitalization, we could be a country with a say in the world. For example, we could budget autonomic vehicles, such as America and Britain, for drivers without driving, so that we wouldn't have to search for a so-called domestic car by force. (HPP) For example, we could value sports, music, art, and then music is forbidden. We wouldn't have young people handing out flyers in our universities. (Applause from CHP rows) We could invest in energy technologies such as Denmark instead of Russia, Japan, France, and France, so that we could be one of the countries that could effectively use its technology and export its energy, but why bother with that now when we can get around the corner, right? For other countries to work, we buy from them; for we are turning the mill with transport water. And even the IMF is getting an imaginary loan. The government's rights should not be denied; they do their best to increase import options; there is hay from Bulgaria, meat from Serbia, cows from Singapore, all of them. What's the point of making them in Turkey? Hands on the moon, we're on foot. All these countries are jealous because they can't build a 1,100-bedroom palace. In these fifteen years, you had nothing to tie your hands to, to take revolutionary steps, not only to invest in our future, but to betray Istanbul, Turkey and our future generations. (Applause from CHP rows) Now, at the coming point, the AKP's president puts the bill into bureaucracy and says: (Fases are high, cannot be invested, unemployment cannot be prevented, inflation nation moans. Isn't it a joke? Mr. President, you tell this to the nation's cones, to the nation's cones. You've been running our country alone for 15 years, who you're complaining to? As Ziya Pasha said, do you think my family is blind and foolish? Our people are moaning under inflation. If you say so, there is only one translation, which is a clear confession of bankruptcy of your 15-year economic policies, and you are the head of this bankruptcy. You can't put the blame on others and get on top like olive oil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And our people see your strategy to change agendas by wearing a sword shield against the imaginary enemies you've created. And it won't work anymore if you bet our people's feelings of mercy with constant victim literature. In 15 years of your political cunning, the cost of both economic and political and social for Turkey and our people has been very high. We've been wronged, we've been deceived. You'll find that this last tango doesn't work if you're thinking about getting rid of responsibility by setting up a perfect profile of mistakes. Know that the common sense of our people will question and question the sincerity and leadership of a leader who is deceived, deceived, and wrong every day. For a statesman, the greatest weakness is to be unpredictable and easily misled by others. See, the Republic of Turkey, founded by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, had a respected brand value all over the world. It was the compass of every oppressed nation fighting for independence, Turkey. With this brand value, the Montrö Convention was signed to determine the status of the throats today. Again, with this brand value, Hatay was infected without firing a single bullet. Now the AKP paints a picture of a government called corruption and bribery lawsuits all over the world that exemplified what the ancients call it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Keep ignoring all warnings and closing your eyes, ignoring your ears, simply walking the way you know. In 2019, when you open your eyes, you will see who took the horse and crossed the city.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0031par0082	They're dreaming, they're dreaming.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0032par0083	There's been eight elections, and you still haven't made it to Üsküdar.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0030par0084	My last word, as you know, is that the AKP has no people in its 2018 budget, and the government expects the sacrifice of our citizens. I speak to all our citizens who have not seen or heard from the AKP...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0032par0085	You have not yet passed Ataşehir, Ataşehir.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0030par0086	May your hard times and your hard times never lead you to despair and unhappiness. Victory will belong to a new Turkey, with hope and confidence in the future. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0033par0089	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Congressmans, Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti, and Mr. Ismail Kahraman, President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, welcome to our General Assembly. [[Applause]] Thank you. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fourth speaker is Kayseri MP Mr. Çetin Arık. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0034par0148	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the Veteran Assembly. Again, we're dealing with a budget with a lot of numbers, but there's nothing in it for the public, nothing to worry about. Unfortunately, in this budget, we see traces of a sense of self-respecting, self-deserving understanding. I have made a commitment to the science and technology leg of the 2018 budget. It's like the story of Nasrettin Hodja talking about science in the power of the Justice and Development Party; I don't know what to tell you, I don't know what to say. What in the name of science is left in the country, in the name of science, for God's sake? Dear lawmakers, while the world is doing artificial intelligence research, there is no artificial intelligence research on the government's science and technology agenda; there is no science technology, cloud applications, cyber security issues. This government can't predict that future wars will take just a few minutes in the cyber world, that countries that have gained superiority in this area can make financial institutions, energy institutions, power grids, data storages not work in a few minutes. Of course, it is unlikely that the government, which cannot see the tip of its nose in many matters such as the PKK's opening, Syria, has any insight into these deep visionary issues. The government doesn't even realize that white collars, engineers, doctors, tech experts, scientists, who are growing up in our country with great difficulty are quickly moving out of the country. Because for 15 years, the government has taken no concrete measures against brain migration. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are some of us who swear at Israel with their mouths foamed with foam. As a matter of fact, Israel deserves more of this blasphemy in the persecution of Jerusalem. Here I curse the occupied Israel once again. Do you know that most of the cyber firewall practices used in our country's institutions are made in Israel? Do you not realize that Israel's certain technology company, including Turkey, has been able to monitor and monitor information and data traffic live on giant screens? But what is this government doing in its sleep, in its sleep, when it has been under the support of a party that has not been able to call it Turkish nationalism for years? He changes the TÜBITAK law five times and gives the TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) to the command of the people (TÜBITAK). It converts a science base such as TÜBITAK into a base. In TÜBİTAK, he transfers money to the companies that need to be spent on science. I'm not saying that, but Arif Ergin is the president of TUBITAK. AT THIS time, TÜBITAK did not just transfer money to the city, but was also involved in the plot scenarios. You remember, when you conspired with the Turkish army, it was applied for the expert opinion of TÜBITAK. TÜBITAK, under your command, could not even tell false documents. Dear lawmakers, if the 1.5 billion-dollar Muslim world can't cope with 6-7 million Israelis, it's clear that it is not important enough to science and technology. If we want to lead the Muslim world, let's hear it, Trump! O Merkel! O Israel, you cannot make false words of violence, which begin with their words. What we need to do is we need to install curriculums in all kinds of schools with coding, IT technologies, software, cyber security, biochemistry, genetics, and focus on artificial intelligence. We need to spend our budget heavily in these areas, expand our RD budget as much as possible in the interest of science and technology as possible. While building education, science and technology policy and its budget, I think we should take a good look at Singapore, which includes a small area even smaller than the province of Yalova, but has an economy close to the economic size of Iran. Singapore single-handedly used the 50 hectares of its total geographical area, which is only 80 square miles [720 km]. What do you think would happen if the AKP (AKP) executives, who equipped Ankara's steppe with multi-layer housing, were to be given 750 square kilometers of Singapore's geography?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0035par0157	What would he do?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0034par0158	The first thing I think about is, I think I'd like to make hundreds of sea view skyscrapers and market them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, the questions have been stolen during exams conducted between 2005 and 2013, called ALES, where faculty have been determined. What did you want? What did you say? We see that you have not only stolen the questions of the tests determined by the faculty, but also the future of the bright young people of this country, their hopes, and even their faults. Dear lawmakers, you have to believe in science first, but you're afraid of science, of the reader. Look, my fellow citizens, Mr. Taner Yildiz, the Kayseri MP, says the higher the reading rate, the lower our vote rate. Here's the professor you assigned to the YÖK. I'm more ignorant and uneducated, and I'm counting on the impregnation of the uneducated people in this country. A lecturer of yours says that camel piss is a cure. Dear lawmakers, do you know why this is happening? The knuckleheads stole the questions, and the knuckleheads moved into the institutions. What happened was the poor man's poor man's child. Oh, by the way, when we say "Man" we think of the jewelry that was worn at your children's wedding... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the politicians are coming.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0036par0165	What do you think of when you say ice?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0034par0166	I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0037par0167	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0034par0168	When you think of Man's Island, I want to tell you right now that back home, in Central Anatolia, those who are deceived are called idiots. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0037par0171	Thank you, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0038par0172	He called everyone a dickhead. He called the citizen a dickhead, of course.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0037par0173	In fifth place, Mr. Orhan Sarıbal. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0039par0177	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we need to talk about whether it's the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Agriculture budget or the import budget. Because the Ministry has announced that 11 per cent growth has been shown, but unfortunately, agriculture growth is 2.8. This, of course, is an import-based growth. Now I'm going to present a few numbers and parameters. Let's see what agriculture is all about. Since the day of power, he has supported imports and companies, unfortunately not the villager and the small manufacturer. It's expensive, it's expensive, it's expensive, it's expensive, but unfortunately there's no serious support policy that supports these entries. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Last, I'd like to share with you the figures that were announced a week ago, valued lawmakers: the price of diesel has increased by 16 percent. The price of urethra from chemical fertilizers is 24 per cent, the price of DAPίn is 44 per cent, the price of clover from animal feed is 32 per cent, the price of shelter is 46 per cent, the price of silicon corn has increased 40 per cent; the price of hay has increased 84 per cent; these are rising. And what did the government give the farmer in return? The wheat is 3.3%; the corn is 2.7; the sugar beets are 10.4 percent; but you're looking at consumer prices; there's a 13 percent increase. So there's a terrible gap between the supports, the purchases, and the raises. Unfortunately, during the 15-year period when the AKP arrived, 3-4 pencils were unable to increase production in any pen except the product, all of which went back. (Applause from CHP rows) The simplest example is that in 2002 wheat production per person is 294 kilograms per person, and in 2016 the number of wheat productions per person is 258 kilograms, so we produced less wheat per person. In all, there are $171 billion in agricultural imports in 15 years; food, agriculture, raw materials. They can say right away... so there's no sign of Cari. My dear friend, I am a farmer, I am a peasant; I look at the wheat I sell in my field, I look at the barley I sell in my field, I look at the tomato I sell in my field. In total, our agricultural exports are $11.5 billion in raw materials, our agricultural imports are $65 billion in raw materials, so when we look over the current, we import exactly six times more than exports on raw materials, especially for your information. Who does this money go to? Of course, it goes to foreign farmers, foreign companies. In addition, you should know the numbers in particular: the price of fatty seeds and derivatives is $36 billion, plus $17.5 billion for 62 million tons of grain, $3.5 million for dry goods, $17 billion for 10 million of cotton. There are still 29 million acres of land not planted, and 7 million acres of empty land have been removed from the agricultural area during the AKP's rule and used for other purposes. Again, I'd like to share with you the two decisions made in 2017: Remember, a decision was made in June, and the taxes on livestock, 130 per cent to 225 per cent, were reduced to 25 per cent to 26 per cent. Where? Customs taxes. Again, immediately, with a decision made in July, customs duties were reduced to zero in livestock, grain and bacliada, with a decision taken in December through the Earth's Harvest Office and the Fish Association. Taxes, which previously had $3 per kilo in tobacco and 40 cents per package, have been completely reduced to zero. The question is, who's going to produce it? What farmer will produce it? What will he gain from what he produces? And who will win, dear friends? Of course, the AKP and its supporters, of course, are their contractors. (Applause from CHP rows) So this budget is the budget for the enrichment of AKP's contractors. This budget is not the budget of the small peasant, the small manufacturer, the manufacturer of this land. This budget is the budget of the supporters. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, dear friends, I'd like to reshape these numbers: you started in livestock in 2010, and so far you've been importing $5.4 billion. Did the meat go cheap or did the meat go up? No. They don't add to it, they don't make a big deal out of it. It happened again, you brought it from Serbia, from the other side, but now the price of meat is rising again, there's no way you can stop it. They've granted imports to 1 million 475 thousand living animals, zero customs. They've allowed 95,000 tons of carcas, zero customs. They allowed 2,250,000 tons of grain, barley, wheat, rice, corn, zero customs. Who won again? Of course, the contractors and contractors of political power won. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, there are two basic reasons for increasing imports when all these supports are reduced at our destination: One, there will be no agriculture in this land, and this country's farmer will not farm. Two, the allies will continue to be rich. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a new model in the seed, dear friends. They come out and say that in 2002 we had 230 thousand tons of seed, and now we have 1 million tons of seed. There is no such thing. Right now the land is from us, the farmer is from us, and unfortunately they're being used as subcontractors. The seed is for strangers, the seed is for strangers, the seed is for strangers who are sold to the village; they are the winners, we are just the porters.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0040par0190	I don't agree. No... No...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0039par0191	I'd also like to mention TAPDK. Time is short, of course not enough. Dear lawmakers, there's a board called the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Board. And they finished him, and brought him. It's a board of seven. This board is now off duty as of November 7th. Let the minister say here, as with the Candy Board, the hearings are as follows: TAPDK, the Board of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing and the Sugar Board are said to be removed and destroyed. Instead, we don't know what's coming, but he'll find power, and he'll have to answer. And political power did something else in tobacco. Of course, international... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0041par0195	Here, complete Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0039par0196	Thank you very much. Foreign companies needed profit and turnover in tobacco, and political power needed money for taxes. So, with their new law in December, they set their sights on Adıyaman, Malatya, Diyarbakır's tobacco man, and to destroy them, unfortunately, they destroyed free and auctionous tobacco outside the contract. So they clearly kicked the shit out of Turkey's agriculture. After that, it is not possible to increase production in this country, to develop farmers. In short, this budget is the budget of foreign companies, foreign farmers; it is not the budget of the peasant who produces in this land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, if you'll excuse me, I have two questions about these last two decisions -- one information -- to you. You know, in some parts of Karacabey and Turkey, there was damage due to natural disasters. You've made a decision, a decision to postpone the loan. There is a feature of the decision to postpone debt -- as Einstein said -- that it is not right to do the same thing over and over again and expect a different result from all of this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't want to use that word, but the least we can do is, right now, because of this new loan delay, there's been some repayment in these areas due to disaster.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0042par0202	Speak to us, blessed one, speak to us. Let him address us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0043par0203	It's against the General Assembly's practice.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0044par0204	Sometimes the government returns to its ranks.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0205	For example, there was a $230 million loss in the Karacabey area, and you paid $4 million. These 4 million farmers that you've paid, they're in a situation where you can't benefit from this new loan delay; that's one.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0046par0206	Face this way. Mr. President, over here...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0047par0207	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0208	Two: There's a delay in debt for people who were delayed last year.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0048par0209	He's out of time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0210	I want to say these two in particular, which is very important, so I wanted to share them with you. Yes, it's valuable...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0049par0212	Thank you very much, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0213	And let me ask you this question, because we never meet again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0050par0214	Ask him where he'll find the Minister again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0049par0215	All right, it's going on the record, make it quick.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0216	30 percent disaster is on the agenda, farmers are dead.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0051par0217	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0052par0218	Don't bother.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0219	It's not 30 percent disaster, it's now over 100 percent disaster, the farmer's debt is 96 billion.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0053par0220	Mr. President, let's get someone else's talking time, so that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0221	What they're saying is that all farmers' debts must be postponed unconditionally. The money you sent back for the disaster is being blocked at the bank, Mr. Secretary. These guys are hungry, they don't have any money in their pockets.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0054par0223	Thank you very much, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0224	And the money that comes back, are you going to make a code, or are you going to issue a decree, and they're going to be paid to the farmers.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0054par0225	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0055par0226	For God's sake, keep going, keep going!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0045par0227	These are the people's starving money. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0056par0230	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. Sixth speaker, Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0057par0235	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2018. I salute you all. Whose budget is this? This budget will be given to our farmers, the master of Ataturk, who was promised by the law, who would not be given $102 billion to support the state, who, although he was right, did not break his mastership and wanted to do so much, but who could not join the march of justice that we did. This budget will be given to our farmers who have used loans from all banks and co-ops in their district, who have 5-6 credit cards and mortgaged all their fields. These farmers owed you $1 quadrillion when you were in power, 89 times over the course of 15 years of your power, now owe you 89 quadrillion. You're gonna give this farmer this year's budget. This budget will be given to our farmers, who wear their shorts and give their yacht owner cheap diesel to the open seas, but can't get their own farmer to sell the world's most expensive fertilizer, the most expensive electricity, the most expensive oath. The budget will be given to the farmers of Düzce, Sakarya, the Army and Giresun, who have 70 per cent of the world's nut gardens, but who have been handed over to foreigners but continue to produce them. This budget will be given to farmers who are the masters of Ataturk, who are forced to compete with foreign farmers from the government, whose government has cleared customs duties in wheat, barley, corn, red meat, living animals, and rice on the third day of the holiday, as they await the return of their labor. This budget will be given to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is unable to manage Turkey's agriculture, which is about the size of two Thraces that have not been planted, and rents land from African countries, and sees the solution for bringing animals from Singapore, which has 200 animals. This budget is asking you to thank me for paying $4 billion a year, producing sunflowers, and producing 200,000 tons more than last year, and suddenly you're dropping customs taxes, surveillance prices, 170 dollars a year, and then...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0058par0242	The one who drinks
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0057par0243	...the water-drinking Thracian farmer, Şaban, will be given to Agha. This budget turns up inflation as an excuse that you can't increase its production, but as an excuse. It will be given to the Turkish farmer, who, for some reason, you reset customs duties, and why you think about Canadian and Argentine farmers, and you don't think about peas, beans, red lentils, green lentils. The budget will be given to farmers who laugh at those who continue to produce hay, nohudu, lentils, tobacco, meat, corn, and say that they are the world's first in Europe, even though they import and swim in debt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This budget will be given to farmers who can't get 250 lira of support from you -- because they don't have 200 animals to cut -- who can't get more than 200 euros -- who can't keep up their feed prices, who can't keep up with their food prices, who feed small amounts of imported hay. This budget -- it's very important -- is that the farmer needs to produce breeds and seeds, and thousands of agricultural engineers who are tasked with protecting gene resources, and thousands of veterinarians who are a trustee while they are unemployed, and there will be a budget for an institution run by a physical education teacher and an economist. This budget will be given to farmers who provide for 1 million anchormen, cheap melas and change to their animals, who target their people to produce sugar beets from sugar beets, who produce healthy sugar beets from sugar beets, who are identified with the republic's establishment, who are still producing sugar beets against the starch-based sugar lobbyes. I shot down the Russian plane. I gave the order, and then I shot him. I didn't shoot him. At last he will give his hand to the rotten farmers who can't find a market for their tomatoes and citruses. This budget will be given to farmers who continue to graze animals in the meadows, despite those who ignore first-class farmland, meadows, olive groves, for this love that never ends, the love of construction, the love of the mall, the love of construction, the love of the mall. This budget earns from the product. It will be given to those who continue to produce rationally but who do not win. This budget will be paid this year. It will be given to farmers who lose everything because of the natural disaster, whose debts, such as grace, are delayed by a year, whose interest is three per cent, burned under the sun. For all the reasons I can't count, when we look at the budget numbers, I say don't worry about our farmer, the master of Ataturk, who is not even as valued as the Syrians. The future will be fine, because there's a Republican People's Party that cares about you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We have 15 million farmers, 15 AKP deputies aren't here. That's what you care about the farmer, folks. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So let's not always create problems. What's the solution, fellas? The solution is to treat the peasant who produces it as lord in the power of the Republican People's Party. If you love that farmer, if you want him to produce him, you have to support him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0059par0261	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0057par0262	We have a budget for that, too. If we obey the law, why did the Republican People's Party do the justice march, and why does it want justice for the farmer? The Republican People's Party is seeking a right to be given to him by law. But whether you give it to me or not, you'll soon see the technological villages that we've just started and the application continues. You'll soon see how it's produced with our technological villages, how it's marketed, how it's chained from manufacturer to consumer. We're going to make those villages habitable again; we're going to rebuild Turkey, and we're going to build it together with people with calluses, people working under the sun. Thank you for listening, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit02spe0059par0265	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the seventh speaker is Mr. Khakat MP Mr. Ancient Durmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Durmaz, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0060par0008	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, my dear fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, and I salute you all. Water and forest are basic human rights, such as the budget, and it's a sin not to be protected. I'm going to speak here today to remind you of a human right. Those who resist the Green Road Project, the Mothers of Eve, the Artvins of Cerattepe, the People of Istanbul, the Army, the Castamun Cideans, the People of Antalya, the People of Çanakkale, the Mersinians, the People of Sinopians, the People of Konuld, those who resist to fight against the Green Road Project, the People of Bolu Lake Park, the People of Istanbul, the People of Castamon Cide, the People of the Republic, the People of the Republic, the People of Turkey, the People of Turkey, the People of Turkey. For the water we drink, for the air we breathe, for our forests. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to State Water Affairs data, our country has an average of 112 billion cubic metres per year of surface and subterranean water potential. Given that our population will exceed 100 million in 15 to 20 years, our country is increasingly in danger of becoming a water-poor country. At the risk of dehydration, it is vital to manage our water resources, to use them plannedly, and to take measures at a sectoral level. In other words, we have to immediately implement an integrated water and natural resource management approach. We must never forget that access to healthy water is a human right. Water is not just a matter of engineering. Water can't be confined to pipes, warehouses, pump stations, turbines everywhere. We'll never forget that water is all about us. Mr. President, good lawmakers, another issue as important as water resources is our forests. First of all, the ministry's presentation of 15 years of AK PARTI -- it's unrealistic to know how much forest space we've lost in the power of the AK PARTI. There's always forest fires. However, instead of some burning forests, hotels and other projects are rising. He talks about an increase of 1.5 million hectares, compared to our presence in the forest from 2002 to 2017. Furthermore, when environmental sensibilities are expressed, the government has cut down so many trees from its wing, but in return, we have planted so many saplings. We have greened so many fields. Comments, such as these, are often made. If you can't make up for the loss by planting a tree somewhere else when you destroy a forest area, Mr. Secretary. The forest isn't just a tree, and you can't make it into a forest by planting trees. Forests are a natural habitat of hundreds of years of ecological processes. Forests, soil, dozens of trees, mushrooms, birds, mammals, insects, and reptiles are a natural habitat. With no basic knowledge of ecology, such trees were cut down, and so many saplings were planted in its place. I am surprised that you would share scientific mispronouncements with the public and with great sadness. Thousands of trees were slaughtered for the third bridge. See, until recently, when you looked at the satellite images of Istanbul, you could often see the important water basin and forest presence surrounding the city. But now, if you look at Istanbul, you'll see that the forests we can call the lungs are completely cemented. Istanbul's forest presence has been reduced to 40 per cent. You can't change the fact that you destroyed the forests of northern Istanbul and unfortunately you can't bring them back. The interesting thing was that in his years as mayor of Istanbul's capital city, the third bridge to the Republic was suicide. He said, "There's a forest there, there's a water basin, it's Istanbul's lung." But what happened after he sat in power? The third bridge was built at the cost of destroying the forests. Our forests, water basins, natural areas, especially Istanbul, have been sacrificed to Ranta and crazy projects in our country. We wish you'd give up the crazy channel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When we tell these facts, sir, you say they're against development, against investment, against the road, against the bridge. No, you're not fooling anyone. We were saying yesterday that no investment that wasn't in the best interest of nature would benefit my country and the people, and we're saying today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We call it sustainable development, you call it progressive development. I will cut the necks of a branch cut off from my forest. You make the bones of Fatih. On the bitter side, we have already betrayed Istanbul. Naturekeepers and we have been saying the same thing for years; yes, what was done to Istanbul, as you call it, is a real betrayal. Not only today's people, but the greatest betrayal of future generations. You really betray Istanbul, the Black Sea, the forest, the olives, the free stream, and the pedestrians. Isn't it a shame about our country and our future generations? Mr. President, I'd like to open a separate section of the Black Sea, which holds the most important part of our forest and water existence. The forest, the way it was built, the Black Sea coast, the story of the streams has been cut off. The coast road, far from the predicted scientific foundation, without knowledge, destroyed the area. In Artvin, in Rize, in the Army, in Tripoli, we have also seen many fatal accidents that are inevitable; they have upset us. Aside from the financial destruction that has arisen, our hearts are hurt as this distorted construction costs the lives of our people. Again, there's another dagger stuck in the Black Sea plateau, and there's also a name that's so sympathetic that if we don't know it, we'll be fooled, codenamed the Green Road; in fact, the destruction of the springs, the destruction of natural habitat. And then there's Cerattepe, who's being auctioned off for one person, who's being looted. You took the people of Artvin without mercy, despite their natural defenders, against Cerattepe. You built a forest mansion in Sürmene Pineburnu. Mr. Erdogan and Qatar Emiri took a helicopter and liked it here. It's strange that a week later -- the forest of Banmeni -- burned down. Strangely enough, the cause of the fire is still unclear. You've sacrificed the riding forest as well. You destroy the nature of the Black Sea, our thousands of years of relics, for 15 to 20 years of unsustainable projects. The 56th article of our constitution stipulates that the citizens and state protect the environment and nature. THE AK PARTY's government must renounce this plundering culture and return to implementing the Constitution. We need to set this budget to give more support to the forest peasant, to raise the villager's budget as the main agenda. We need the laws that protect nature, the forest, the water, but the current law-oriented runts need to be revised for nature immediately. In closing my words, I would like to insist once again that no plan, no project, no investment, is in the best interest of our country, and it can't be. And I continue with a verse of Sümmani the Lover: What's the matter with me, Sümmani? I'll take my head off and go from place to place. I'll sue you for Armageddon tomorrow. Will you not come to judgment? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, there are gatherings in our plains of Niksar. Minister, these massifications have destroyed existing irrigation channels. I'm saying it's useful to do these things with a closed system as soon as possible, as well as your plan, because it's a precious plain that's declared a site. Again, Minister, in the valley of the valley, you see -- the valley was set off with three HESEs -- and the execution was halted, and it was plundered. First, in this valley, there was an unnatural deep-section that dropped the base water, along with roads. And a grave painting, a city from Rome, is revealed, and the historical tissue and remains of that city are still being carried on, ignoring. Look, it's the forest, the trees, and the nature. And, Mr. Secretary, you have a very ambitious nut forest. In Niksar, there is a forest area built in 2012-2016, under the Walnut Action Plan. I took a picture of this a few days ago, and I brought it, and it's been about six years, and there's no nuts left. Whoever's doing the controlling and controlling of this needs to be seriously warned about this, too. Kelkit Valley from the precious valleys of the world... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0061par0033	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0060par0034	Now, the previous version of this place, Mr. Secretary, as you can see now, is a valley that's been built like this. Nature's still going on, but I'm just saying, despite all the negativity, can we do good things? We can do it. First, in this country, in this water-poor country, the water ministry must be established, and I hope that the budget of 2018 will be good and good in this country, where we live, with respect to the dynamics of this country, to nature, to the environment, to our subterranean wealth, to our subterranean resources, to our water resources, to our forests.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0061par0037	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. The eighth speaker is Çanakkale MP, Mr. Bulent Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0062par0042	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, for the first time, the President was right. He once said: "Unfortunateness is that the Republican People's Party is against the United States." He said that the Republican People's Party is anti-empiralist.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0063par0043	They're so old.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0062par0044	You changed the shirt, but we're still on the same page, we're anti-empireists. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You often change your shirt because you become anti-emperist when it suits you, and when it suits you, you do secret business with Israel, and you continue to take seed from Israel. You still haven't been to Gaza, but we're the ones who went to Palestine like Sea Travelers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The only example that exists with the founding of our Republic and the only example in the world is that Turkey is ignored by our forest peasant AKP. The village of Biga Camialan, Caralan; Bell Bilaller, Cicicikler, Redilma, Yenice, Alancık Obas, Armutçuk villages; Lapseki Taşttepe, Dereköy, Alpagut village; Ayvacık Tuzstone, Bahar, Shorty village; Fevziçakmakmak in Çanakkale; Bayramic Gökçeiçi, Zerdalilik, Palmitoba villages... You wonder why I count these villages? Because of your forest policies, you've finished, destroyed many of our forest villages in Çanakkale, and left no people under 40 in these villages. In Turkey, there are 18,688 forest villages within 17900 forests and adjacent villages, including some 20 million hectares of the state's ownership. The forest villagers are also in the largest part of the land's existence. Because of the policies of your Ministry of Forests and your government, the forest migrates to cities to get jobs because the forest villagers can't get government investments, they don't see support. You give our forests to the trees, to the corporations; we call our forests to our peasants. To employ a forest peasant will profit our government and the forest will provide a livelihood for our villager. In our constitution, let the forest peasant take advantage of the resources of the forest. You left it to the merchants. We have to go back from this mistake and leave the rights of our forests to the real owners, the forest peasant, as it was in the past. If it is necessary to implement the obelisk, it must be done through the forest village co-ops and a serious opportunity for our forest peasant. Because our seven and a half million jungle villagers in our country cannot be protected without protection. In implementing the criteria that will set the price of revelation for 2018, the fuel price increase during the year must be reflected. Yes, we're the ones who want to give the diesel to our forest peasant, to our co-ops and to our farmer for $1.50. We are the ones who are worried about the tradesman you're riding on for a quarter of a tax debt, and you're the one who says, "What island am I missing money for?" (Applause from the ranks of CHP) You who look at public severance, pension, gold in your home, we are the ones who are willing to make an equal arrangement. In that sense, we're not on the same boat. For we are those who die for the bread money in Soma. We are the miners in Ermenek, who live and die by the sweat of their eyes. We are Abraham's Teachers, who fell down and hanged himself because he was unable to be appointed. We're the Chanakkali farmers who have nothing to sell but a handful of land and hard work, and you're the ones who are trying to launder the thieves in front of the Turkish flag. So forgive me, we are anti-empireists, as Erdogan said. Mr. Minister, let's go to a villager, ask him, let's say there's 11 percent growth in Turkey. Let's hear him out and see if he'll be pleased. We're with seven and a half million forest villagers. One percent of the geyrisafi national estate should be given to the farmer. You who passed the law, and then you who did not give the farmer 102 billion. We're the ones who want to tax this state from the fertilizer that our forest villager and farmer use, you're the ones who set up companies abroad so we don't have to pay taxes to this state. (HPP) Yes, we are the ones who say, "Let the pensioner be paid double, and we don't want to cut off a cent of our pension." Aren't you the one who cut our pensioner's salary for medicine, medical bills, collects from pharmacists? You're the ones who spent 500 billion dollars on our farmer in Çanakkale Yenice, making ponds, and then making the water supply of this pond into the thermal plant. We're the ones who want to give their 2/B land to the free peasant, and you're the ones who pay for 9 million square feet of land 2/B in Çanakkale. You're the ones who forced the forest workers to retire because you don't count them as your own. You've only given nine casts from nearly 10,000 forest engineers waiting for the staff, like you're making fun of these people. You're the ones who do the sweet water trick and work five months and twenty-nine days to keep the forest workers out of the lineup. We are the ones who fought to recruit some 600 of our workers at the coal company in Çanakkale district of Çanakkale, and again at the March 18th thermal plant in Bell. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're the one who shut down the Çanakkale Forest Area Manager because you couldn't depose him. And then when it comes to the election, you're the one who's been interfering by opening up the Forest Area Manager. Your 15-year-old forest policies... you're talking about the 2.5 billion plants you've planted, and you're talking about it, but then you're not following what happens when these saplings grow or grow. As Yasar Kemal, the son of this land, says, it is easy to kill land and nature, and hard to keep alive. You're the ones who kill nature, and we're the ones who fight. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0064par0058	Thank you, Mr. Oz. In the ninth place is Isparta MP Irfan Bakr. Mr. Copper, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0065par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the State Department of Water, where I have worked for many years, where each corner has a separate presence, culture, the cradle of civilization, the garden of Eden, the people trapped between Anatolia and the cracked land and the blue sky. I salute our precious citizens and the Veterans Assembly who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Of course, our former General Manager, who I don't want to pass on when it comes to State Waterworks, the 9th President of the Republic of Turkey, whose love for water and hard work in every square inch of his country, has never let go of the water. I thank and thank God for all the DSI personnel who have gone on forever. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is the ability and projects of the DSI, which directly affect our country's economy, determine the prosperity of the country, the level of development. Looking back from the past to our country and its economy, we see that agriculture's employment contribution has dropped from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. The reason is that support for our farmers, our producers can't be done effectively and that the village can't be prevented from moving from the village to the city is that water policy can't be made more efficient for agriculture and a stable policy can't be implemented. In spite of the supports, the farmer has lost hope, is driven away from the greed of production; for this support should be given the quality of the product and the amount of it. As I've always said, watering is a vital issue, and it's about a citizen's life, his work, the vaccine, his bread. The investment in irrigation systems is beyond the power of both citizens and troops. Thirty, forty years of networks that are now being used are inconclusive. Remember, ecological agriculture can be done without fertilizer, without medicine, but you can't do without water. We need to switch to modern irrigation systems as soon as possible. Besides, rapid and warped urbanization, the opening of water basins to the zoning plan, unconscious fertilizer and exterminating, wrong water policies threaten the quality of subterranean and above-ground waters, water resources are contaminated. In the villages, in the cities, our citizens were unable to drink the water of the network. For this, the treatment plant projects must be implemented immediately. "The priest will shut up, he will tremble, he will tremble, he will cry to the mold and rust that gnaws at the stuff. Here, we must give up the wrong water policies so as not to make us weep for the water that gives us life. Dear lawmakers, I'd also like to address the problems of irrigation troops and co-ops, underground irrigation and DSI personnel. First, a solution should be created to pay off troops' debts to energy distribution companies and their institutional structures should be strengthened, tenders should be transparent and accountable. Without subsidiary or separation, the party must be completed by the DSI to cover the entire investment price at all irrigation facilities, which have been handed over regardless of vote. However, the exact cost of the account will be taken back according to the 24th article of Law No. 6200. There should be a drought alarm. The pond, which is not filled with rains, must begin its efforts to support dam fields with drilling wells in need. The budget must be cut off or subsidized by the public benefit for energy costs. Mukhtars, irrigation troops and co-ops must take part in every stage of water management planning. Fast-turning and management must be done. Changes to the need must be made in your instructions regarding the rehabilitation of irrigation. The energy used by the Union as part of co-ops' support for agriculture should be reduced by the unit price. In order to generate the energy they consume themselves, renewable energy systems such as wind and sun should be made by the government. In subterranean water irrigation, undocumented escape wells must be documented for the use of controlled water for the use of fair water for everyone. The drilling wells, pumps and energy plants are built by the DSI, and the irrigation networks are made by the state's private administrations, and only within five or ten years after the wells are opened. A 50% grant from the DSI will also benefit from irrigation networks. The underground irrigation networks given to the Metropolitan municipalities must be done by the DSI. The rights of the DSI personnel must be improved immediately and the imbalance between their indicators must be eliminated, and the progress exams must be taken. All subcontractors must be put on staff with staff waiting at all institutions -- no job discrimination -- without a test. In doing so, the transition process should not be interrupted by illegal and arbitrary practices, nor should new victims be created. All projects must be done with a sense of environmental irrigation, drinking, drinking, using water, fishing, and conservation of natural life, sensitive to the environment and nature. In our country, the HES in the west should be converted into pump storage HES, and it's important that new ones be planned with wind and solar power plants, with pump storage. Mr. Secretary, I want to tell you about a project. The Yalvaç, Lowerittar, Karagöl, HES and Watering Project will be stored up to 10 million cubic metres of water from Lake Eğirdir to Karagöl storage and will be the first project in Turkey and the world to produce electricity using wind and solar plants, using water printed by day and day. Turkey, a country of blue skies, has a great deal of responsibility for the DSI. The foundation is to put out every drop of rain in public service, putting out the fire in the midst of our citizens and soil. It is time to stop supporting companies against the public and return to policies that define water as a human right again. I wish that the central management budget of 2018 would be good for our country, that the Republican People's Party, as it was in the past, is in a position to support, to produce solutions that make the lives of our citizens easier today and tomorrow, and to produce these solutions that first work in the interests of the country.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0066par0082	Thank you, Mr. Copper. The tenth speaker is Mr. Turabi Kayan, a member of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Kayan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs of 2018, the General Directorate of Meteorology. Dear friends, meteorology is a science that explores the formation, development and change of weather events in the atmosphere and explores the consequences of these weather events for life and for the world. The part about agriculture and forest is about rain, snow, frost, streams and underground waters. Dear friends are a new branch of science, and it's a science that needs to be studied very seriously, but unfortunately, in our country, there is no scientific work done in this country because the government is dealing with persecution, not science. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In particular, I would like to tell you that because no scientific work has been done in agriculture, no field of occupation has been considered from a scientific point of view, agriculture has ended in Turkey. We all see that the rivers in Turkey are not being used in a healthy way in our country today. The dams were built 40 years ago, fifty years ago, thirty years ago. Water flowing through the dams comes through open channels to the plains. Because of these open channels, 10 percent of the water the streams bring only works, 10 times more spent for nothing, dear friends. Because in these open channels, most of the water is lost, and most of it, unfortunately, is vaporized by heat, and also is used by motopops to get water from these channels to the plant, and that gives rise to energy waste to the fuzuli ground. Mr. Secretary, I would especially like to say that in my area, there are two major dams in the Centipede region, the Rock Dam and the Centipede Dam. Today, with the open channel system... the ministers are not interested in us because they're talking to each other, dear friends, I'd like to give them some information about that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Precious Ministers, especially all the water in these dams goes through open channels. Their lifespan is over, its term is complete; what needs to be done here is to get the water to the basins with the closed system circuit. There would be no loss of an ounce of water going through it, and especially since these dams are in high places -- giving water to plants without any energy being expended will produce the most healthy yield from these plants. Dear friends, in our country, especially the seeds of grain are imported abroad or foreign companies come to our country and work on them and produce grain seeds. I especially want to say that they develop hybrid seeds in grains. Hybrid seeds are only produced in less developed countries like us, which are sold. Because a seed's life span has been three or four years or five years. In the meantime, when you buy new seeds every year, Mr. Secretary, you probably know as much as I do how much this seed costs our country. Sunflower seeds... the region where sunflowers are most planted in Turkey is the Thracian region, dear friends. Sunflower seeds are hybrid seeds, as is the seed of corn. Hybrid seeds are used once, no chance of being used twice. For him, the seed of the hybrid seed is fertilized from the seed we call the seed, and the seed is harvested again, dear friends, but it is developed to produce only one year's harvest. Now, dear friends, your sunflower weighs 2,000 liras a pound, but your seed weighs 10 pounds 1,000 lira. What does that mean? Dear friends, do your thing. Mr. Secretary, we get robbed every year by seedmen.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0068par0098	Are you also getting the seed from Israel?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0099	Dear friends, I'd like to briefly tell you about events like this, especially in livestock. Dear friends, there are hundreds of animal farms in my area. Hundreds of livestock farms, each one with a thousand headgears, 2,000 helmets of animal farms. If you ask, how much is the production of these, 10 percent are locked up and 90 percent are locked up. If you say, why? Because those incentive loans are not given to people who understand work, but to others who share in those loans.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0069par0102	Participants, mostly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0103	They're farmers, peasants, but they don't give them to them. You know why? Because they can't get a cut from the peasant...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0069par0104	They get votes from the side.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0105	...because the animal manufacturer can't get a cut from the real farmer, and they can't ask for it, and they can't face it, but these thousands of animal manufacturers that I'm talking about, they're going to give them money.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0070par0107	Get over it! You know how it is.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0108	Mr. Secretary, you've just arrived, and I'd especially like to inform you about these matters. If you look into the bureaucrats and their feathered associates who work in your ministry, you'll see where this is going, why meat imports never end in Turkey, why seed imports never end in this country. If you want to get farming back on track in this country, if you want to sell thousands of tons of grain, not an ounce of grain from the outside, but instead of importing animals from the outside, you have to produce a pattern. And in order to bring that order, I specifically say that you must support the farmer, the animal manufacturer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] About forestry: Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister of the Forest, you know, Thrace has the most beautiful forests in the world, the mother-in-law forest, the oak forest and the gurgen forest. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0071par0112	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0067par0113	Thank you. Dear friends, in Thrace, they finished shaving the forests, but they didn't replace it with anything. Since nothing was said, there were only 80 inhabitants of the forest village in Thrace, where 1,800 inhabitants remained today. Mr. Secretary, this is a betrayal of our village. Dear friends, each one of them comes into town and works here like slaves. However, the previous incomes of the peasant, the forest villager, were astounded to us, both looking at the forest and making money from it. Now, my dear friends, let's take our village into the city and let it live in its own village, instead of working there. My dear Ministers, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I'm Thracian, I'm Cırklareli, and in the late six hundred and fifty years of the Ottoman Empire, all the villages in Thrace were farms, my friends, but each one of these farms was rented to foreigners because... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the Turkish farmer was tired of farming and was unable to farm, unable to produce. I say that you made these peasants, who came from Central Asia to teach these regions to sow wheat, to teach them corn, to teach them the corn, to teach them the corn, to teach them the corn, to make the field grow out of it, to talk them out of the land, to talk them out of the field, and to talk them out of the village. God bless you, you're a success!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0072par0120	Thank you, Mr. Kayan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the eleventh and final speaker is Edirne MP Mr. Erdin Bircan. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I salute you and the people who are watching us on their screens. Two years ago, when I spoke from this bench, he told me about the pollution of the Ergene River, and the water rotted in Ergene. Now, based on the confessions of your former national hero of the island of Man, and the Iranian corrupter you now declare a spy, it's normal for the water to rot because it smells of salt in your power, morality has collapsed, and your power has rotted. (CHEERING) Who cleared those who took bribes from the Iranian you declared a traitor today? Of course it's the AKP. And you put our moon star flag behind it and put it on TV screens as a hero. Aren't you ashamed of the saintly martyrs who gave their lives for this country? Çanakkale, how will you face the martyrs of the Battle of Salvation if they stand up? We made this briber a national hero. Are you going to say, "We've been tricked again?" Or are you going to take refuge in a lie? You were the first power to reduce the cari deficit with imaginary exports. Our people will pay for what you did. From here on out, are you still going to protect the thieves? Do you know who's in front of what? We don't want the poison to flow out of this bench. We don't want to contaminate Saros. We don't want to open stone furnaces in the forest in the first degree of natural status. (CHEERING) You guys are not on your way. You really have to give up these ways. Is that too much to ask? You're listening to our demands. Why bother with what we want for our people? What do we want? Don't let the poison flow on your teenager, we want him to get real clean and bring life back to the land he used to live on.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0074par0130	What municipalities are giving them to you, the AK PARTY, the CHP municipalities?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0131	We want the watering systems of the Lightmak Dam to be completed as soon as possible, which our farmer can't use for at least four years because you've opened four times but the irrigation ducts haven't been built. We'd like to build a Keşan-Enez road. No funding again. 60km is a dirty road. The AKP is responsible for the accidents committed here. Minister, that Enez you were a doctor for 40 years is still the same way. The Minister's coming and going, and they know the way, it's a road that's made from the rough road.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0075par0133	We go back and forth more than you do.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0134	I know, I know, so God bless you. I mean, two cars can't go together.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0075par0135	Amen, thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0136	There was a Edirne-Itanbul roller coaster, what happened? In January, 2016, this place was put into investment programme. He said, "This year the construction of the train will begin in 2016," said the Minister of Transport for that period, Mr. Buli Yıldırım. Now we're entering 2017, 2018, and the current Transport Minister says 2023, but not a single nail has been struck. We want the fertile Thracian land to be an agricultural site. In Silivri, you want to build 12 floors of residence with the hands of KIPTAŞ to the first degree of agriculture, and then we'll build 8 times that. You're desperately defending it. It's in historic walls, these are agricultural areas. They buy KIPTACH, and then twenty-two days later, they're building 12 floors behind it. On the one hand, while you're doing this, you're running a public spot for agricultural areas again. You're always showing the Ottoman example of the Ottomans. Take the Ottomans' sense of zoning, friends. Don't turn off the neighbor's sun, don't cut off the wind. You destroy Istanbul, you destroy Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You have slaughtered justice, as you have slaughtered nature. Did Berat Colonel say, "Yes, I studied in the congregation school?" He did. Is the Ministry still doing it? It does. But, by the way, did you, by the way, declare Burak Akbay, the owner of the Speaker's newspaper, to be a member of the congregation school, even though it was not true? You did. You have become a fundamental supporter of Palestine. I ask you: If you are with Palestine, why are you still protecting Israel with the Orbsik Radar Base? Will you shut down Globe Radar Base? We want an answer to that. No, they can't.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0076par0143	Where, where!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0144	Will you still protect Israel with the Globebeak Radar Base? You don't go out and leave ash on the outside...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0077par0145	Where's that heart of theirs!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0146	...but you can't shut down the radar base, you're protecting Israel.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0078par0148	Israeli radar, Israeli shield, Israel!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0149	Weren't you American when the seas fought for Palestine, the 68-generation revolutionaries?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0079par0151	No... no...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0073par0152	You sent our people to their deaths in the blue Marmara ship, and then you asked me?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0080par0153	6th Fleet, 6th Fleet!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0079par0154	So what happened to the 6th Fleet, where's the 6th Fleet?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0081par0155	Against the 6th Fleet... you are one of those who went by the 6th Fleet.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0082par0156	The more the AKP mentions something, the more it carves under it. There's no justice left in the country, my friends, for naming your party after you. And there was not a place in Ergene, nor in Saros, nor in Artvin, nor in Kazdağ that ye ransacked. When I was a child, the forestmen protected the forest from the villagers, and now the villagers protect the forest from the forestmen, my friends. We want no thermal plants to be built into the heart of Thrace like daggers. We want our farmer to pay for his labor, not have to sell his land, but to be satisfied where he was born. You're drying up streams all over Turkey, making HESFFs. You're being extravagant, unplanned, just for profit and for profit.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0083par0158	Then don't use the roads, don't use anything.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0082par0159	O AKP, those streams don't flow for nothing, they bring life around you. If anyone's free, if anyone's useless, it's you. When you say "world," you use water in vain and you still use it. Wherever you hand in the AKP, it rots, dies.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0083par0160	You've done so much. Is there such a bad painting?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0084par0162	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0082par0163	Go with your lies, with your bribes, with your money cans, with the religious emotions you exploit, and your departure will be the salvation of our country. The former Minister of Agriculture had launched a study for Thrace to become an agricultural site; as soon as you came into office, I asked about this project first, and when you answered me, you only told me about the protected basins. The Minister of Industry is here, yes. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary, that not one person in my circle has taken advantage of KOSGEB, no one I know has taken advantage of it. To whom you give them, to which of your followers you give them, I want his answer. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0085par0169	Thank you, Mr. Bircan.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0086par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0085par0171	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0086par0172	Mr. President, I don't want to go against the budget, so I'm not going to request the bench, but I'd like to make a few points.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0085par0173	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0086par0175	Really, where should I point it out? There was that kind of talk, full of lies and delusions.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0087par0176	Lies!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0086par0177	In particular, we reject all claims that we've cleared the bribes. The whole process of this...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0087par0178	Uh...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0088par0179	Uh...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0086par0180	Say it again so he can be restrained!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0089par0181	Four ministers...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0090par0182	Just a second, Mr. Bircan, let him finish. Please... Mr. Turan, go ahead. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0091par0185	What kind of language? Does that sound good to a lady, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0092par0186	It's called aaa.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0093par0187	So what's the big deal?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0091par0188	What did you say?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0093par0189	I said, "Aaaa."
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0094par0190	Don't be surprised!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0091par0191	Well done if that suits you!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0095par0192	Mr. Turan, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0091par0193	If it suits the lady, say it again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0096par0194	It suits us just as much to react as it suits you to exonerate the corrupt. You forgot about December 17th and 25th already!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0091par0195	Mr. President, the argument against this is a process that is entirely on trial. In this case, the courts have ruled. I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a judge; it's one. Second: The claim that Mr. Hatti has claimed about Israel, that we are protecting Israel, is completely inappropriate. The radar he talks about is NATO's radar. Turkey is a member of NATO. This is the current picture, whether we like it or not, but I'd like to say that the first person to make the first deal on Israel is the CHP power. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0199	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0098par0200	What does the State Department website say? The capital of Israel; give an answer to it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0201	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0099par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0203	Here you go, Mr. Bircan.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0099par0204	He's lying, haven't they cleared the four ministers here? Where was the judgment? Was there a judgment here? There's still a minister there who says I took 50 million bribes. That's not possible!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0206	Mr. Bircan, look, Mr. Turan didn't answer from the stand without taunting you, just to be on the record. So I'll turn on your microphone, and I'll give you my word on your location.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0100par0207	And, Mr. President, there is one other thing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0208	Maybe he'll want to make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0100par0210	Mr. President, they also stated that people who study in community schools in Turkey have been imprisoned, etcetera. There's no such thing. There is no case against those who are studying in schools on legal grounds in Turkey, but those who are abetting those who are not studying or studying at that school have been brought to trial regardless of their position, position, or duty. It is not because the person is studying the case at a school, but because it is a claim that the newspaper was founded and directed by the finances of the magazine.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0211	Okay. Mr. Bircan, I'll give you my word on your position for a moment. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0101par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0215	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0101par0216	Of course, I mean, I won't object to your appreciation, but we need to make sure that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that there is no way, that if there's no way, that if there's no way, that there's no way, that there's no way, that there's no way, As long as this is intact, Mr. Bircan is in his place... and you are in his place.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0102par0217	I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0097par0218	Well, thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Timberboy, I'll listen to you later. Mr. Tanal, I'll give you my word. You had a request before. Mr. Bircan, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0103par0223	Mr. Group Vice President, says it's been cleared. What minister was cleared here? 4 of the four ministers... I've given the Zarrab 50 million. The others are still regretting that we've received 1 million per million. Is that possible? Again, since you're trying to shut down the Incirlik everywhere... don't you have the courage to come here? Come on out here, tell me, we'll shut it down. You stand up to NATO, if you do it when you want to, then get out of here and shut it down and say, "We'll shut it down." Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0104par0227	Well, thank you, Mr. Bircan. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0105par0230	I'd like to do something for the Orb Mountains and the Kayseri, to disrupt the order of the House for the Castamonians. The day before yesterday I was with them, they called me in the yellow writing riot. The Globe Mountains are one of the most beautiful places in the world. In 2009, after the approval of this CIDE report in favor of the company, after HES was asked to be made, the administration court was sued, and after the legal struggle in this case, the Cide dam and the HES project, which was intended to be made to the Lodge Valley, was halted. But now they want to do the same thing by turning around another way, and they really do say that the Kastamonians are writing yellow again. They say...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0104par0233	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0105par0234	If the Supreme Court of Kastamonun and the Court of State will not be carried out in this country, let the Court of Justice of Kastamon be closed, let the Court of Justice be closed, and even the courts be closed. The CED cancellation case is technically being filed against the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The establishment of administrative courts is intended for a citizen who sees the unlawfulness of government practices to object. If a notice ignores a court decision, should we then call the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Padişah, long live? Indeed, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism said that whoever did it here last week should no longer be done after this; there was too much betrayal of the environment. If he is sincere in his words, let them not do so to the mountains of the sphere. Don't let anyone feel like they're doing something new by taking something just 150 feet away, because in the future, we won't be able to breathe, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0106par0238	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0105par0239	The same is true of Mudla Aqyaka. There, again, a forest area of 1,628 square metres -- which had previously purchased the Olive Park -- was privatized at $4,290,000 lira. This is one of the wonders of the world again. Indeed, it is our duty to protect all of this, but it is the Minister of Environment's duty in the first place. If you don't mind, I won't take another word for it, but with what might be considered similar... this young friend of ours, Nesrin Aslan, daughter of ours, Shule Idil Dere, in Kadıköy Yoğurtçu Park, in fact, is going to have the trial of Shule Dere, who had been run over by a truck just as he walked by, and we wish that there would be a fair trial here, especially in the heart of the mother of Shule Idil Dere. Thank you for understanding.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0107par0242	Thank you very much, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Tanal, you've already asked for a statement according to 60. I'll turn on your mic. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0108par0247	Thank you. Mr. President, dear ministers, esteemed deputies, I salute you all. Before, all the garbage from our Düzce province was scattered in the area of the Hecin village. But when Mr. Science, Industry and Technology Minister Faruk Özlü Bey went to the village with drums, there will be no more garbage here. The elections are over, the votes have been taken, but the new mayor -- the mayor has changed -- I will dump the garbage on Hecinler, and I will find no place else. But there's a court order, so they've changed regulations to neutralize the court order. Mr. Science, Minister of Industry and Technology, all the villagers are waiting here for answers. So, these villagers will no longer be dumped here by a minister. Is he going to take your word for it, or are they going to take the mayor's word for it? I'd appreciate it if they'd give me an explanation. Thank you very much, my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0109par0253	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Secretary, I think you'll answer. Here you go. Mr. President, I've always told Mr. Mahmut, but I think Mr. Mahmut wants to discuss it in the House. Now, in the Hecinler position of Düzce, in the village of Hecinler, we had a meeting earlier this year, with our mayor, the governor, about this garbage that day, we made a decision. The decision was not to dump the trash in this area. And I explained that to him. Our current mayor came to me and said, "If I agree with the villagers, if I agree with the villagers, would you allow this trash to be dumped here?" I said, "If you deal with the villagers, yes. If you agree." Now, Mr. Mahmut, we don't do anything our people don't want; we don't do anything if our villagers don't want garbage there. Therefore, my word applies. If the Hecin don't want the villagers, or the villagers of Düzce, to be thrown out of the garbage, it won't fall out there. Other than that, the information you received is not accurate. Don't tire yourself out. Take a walk in the garbage bins of CHP's municipalities, and not in the garbage bins of Düzce, and take care of them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0110par0262	Mr. Secretary, instead of giving advice, tell me the solutions here. What is this, if you love God? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0111par0263	That's not true.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0112par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0113par0265	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0112par0266	So don't tire yourself out here. It's not just the garbage from Düzce. It's the bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0113par0267	Here's two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0112par0271	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and respect. The 80th article of our constitution is not the MP of a elected party, a district, a province, a district, but the MP of the entire nation, the entire nation. It's a congressman's duty to stand up to him wherever there's injustice, lawlessness. (Applause from CHP rows) You can be the Düzce MP, and I accept myself as a member of all Turkey, because the Constitution gives me this authority, this ruling. In this regard, it's against the law to limit my work space. With all the answers you've given, all the Hecinians have followed your responses at this very moment, quite comfortable. I give my regards and greetings to the Hecinians, to all the Düzceians here. Then bring this to the Düzces and get it done. I said, "It's getting dirty, let's do a price reduction on natural gas, and let's start a campaign on gas lines for two long-term years, no interest, no pay." Then make that promise. It's been changed to a very comfortable SMI regulation -- Mr. Secretary is sitting there. The basin has been changed, the Zonguldak Administration Court has been sued, and you've changed the WMD regulations to neutralize the case won by Adapazari. And for what? Purpose: The Hecin are shown to be spent $17m. Put your hand on your conscience, that $17 million has been spent. Is it spent that much? There's only one weigh machine put there, and one door put there, in a flat area, where the trash is being dumped, put there. The Hecinians don't want to live in garbage. Oh, you said the mayor's word is not valid, but my word is true. You said it, I congratulate you. I mean, I wish the mayor would listen to you. We'll see if it's a hand or a hand or a hand. I'd like to be embarrassed here. I really want to be embarrassed. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0114par0276	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0115par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0116par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0114par0279	Mr. Turan, Mr. Secretary would like to respond. Here you go. Mr. Mahmut, don't tire yourself, we're following. So don't get tired, we're following. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0117par0285	Let the opposition get tired even if you follow. Yeah, why wouldn't he be tired?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0118par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0119par0287	I mean, Mr. President, why does Mr. Secretary bother with me? Shouldn't he say thank you?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0288	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0119par0289	What's the congressman's job? So let's not come here, let's not bother, in our house, the machine works like this, let's press the machine, let's get paid, let's not get tired, that's great!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0121par0291	That's what they want.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0292	Well, thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0122par0294	Mr. President, we don't mind any of our deputies, especially Mr. Tanal, passing on the problems of different provinces of the country. But we have the charter, we have the same budget talks, and we finally have the QA today. If we're not going to follow this question and we're not going to follow the code, let's all take our word, and we'll talk until the morning. That's not the right attitude. I invite my friends to observe the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0295	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0123par0296	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you about this procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0297	Here we go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0123par0299	Mr. President, now, yes, maybe we're doing budget negotiations, and no one's abused it and they haven't taken any promises, but there's one thing I've observed from the start: Mr. Secretary, there are responsibilities here, and so people are going to point their criticisms at them. It's not just Mr. Secretary who's talking here right now, but it's been said before. You look at your own garbage. There must be no answer. So you're the one to be criticized, you're the one to blame, and we're the ones to criticize. We have to do this in the name of where we came from, or the whole of Turkey. The ministers can only make the following statements: "You deal with your own garbage, not your own. " We did this, we did this, or we couldn't do this. Of course we couldn't. There's no such thing as "it's not said in life in Turkey, I'm afraid it's an institution that doesn't work, but that's what needs to be done. I'd like to invite all ministers, all ministers, to that tone, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0301	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0124par0302	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I will not abuse your goodwill.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0125par0303	Mr. President, can we please move on to the agenda?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0304	Mr. Tanal, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0124par0305	I'm finishing, I'm finishing. I won't abuse your good faith.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0125par0306	We'll take off, then you guys go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0120par0307	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0124par0308	So, Mr. Secretary, as they divide this country, now they're dividing the country's garbage. I say don't mess with this garbage, thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0126par0310	Yeah, you guys take care of your own garbage!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0127par0311	Mr. President, we're not taking this seriously.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0128par0312	We work to keep Turkey from being divided, so that Turkey doesn't split, but we don't know if anyone is subsidizing its division. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0129par0361	Congressmans, now it's the People's Democratic Party Group's turn to speak. The first speaker is Batman MP Saadet Capable. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Congressmans, I've called the clerk to the stand, please. Mr. Capable, you have ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0130par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and I salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, the 2018 budget, which is set up without the basis of democratic participation, is the economic narrow throat that Turkey has in the middle and long term, which will further deepen the problems and cause us greater problems because budgets are the most important financial and political tools in the fight between political and economic social classes, and are also the most important facts of political governments' approach to democracy, social rights and freedoms. In this budget, it is possible to see that these concepts mean nothing, that there is a budget that supports more war and capital than in previous years. Dear friends, I'd like to continue with an example of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology before it goes out of business. The Court's KOSGEB Control Report in 2016 presented a dramatic example of the size of the staffing during the AKP administrations. The report reported that the ten department heads were established for the KOSGEB organisation, but the amendment increased the number of office heads from 10 to 12. During the year, the Court warned, but in 2016, 12 heads of apartments remained in office. However, as shown in the Court's report, it is evident that Turkey, as in many operations and areas, should be included in the audit, but unfortunately, the audit didn't work, and this is a striking example of the size of the staffing during the AKP administration. Of course, the agency must have found a cover for this irregular staffing. I don't know how many people believe in such irregular practices, but we won't. However, if a lasting peace is established, the democratic process is dominated in all areas, and all initiatives are for the employment, prosperity and development of the people. I would like to point out that we will never be able to support those who are being exploited in such institutions for their personal interests, against the mentality that bless war and death, until the end of our opposition. Unfortunately, our country, which has not been raised to the level of developed countries, has not achieved the level of these countries in any way in its recent years, with technological bans, including antidemocratic practices, including human rights violations. The rulers of a state that defies a life that is worthy of human dignity -- corruption, bribery -- are trying to dominate all areas of life in an unusual way, with extraordinary behavioral practices -- justice, law and so on. The main reason for our country's economic problems, social injustice, blocked management policies and unemployment is to try to solve all kinds of problems in domestic and foreign policy by authoritarian, aggressive, overprotective methods, deepening the problems and channeling much of the economic income here, as shown in the budget distribution, Turkey is taking on a very bad process very quickly every day. Dear friends, another organisation within the Ministry is Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency. TÜBİTAK shows written and verbal complaints from several scientists, including academics involved in TÜBİTAK projects, who were supported or on scholarships, and who had received scholarships and received scholarships, although they had been asked to either remove their scholarships from their jobs or to withdraw them from their projects, although there was no decision to remove them from their jobs, despite the fact that they had been suspended. It's obvious that a double standard is in effect here again. Even that shows that the budget only works for the one who's on the side, as it always does everywhere. Because in light of some of the data obtained, it can be said that TUBITAK is far from its goals as an institutional vision. So it's no more than a dream to expect the government to achieve the vision that has been desired for the country, as it turns out, has not solved its own vision problem within the institution, given the recent government's appointments at TÜBİTAK. Look, in addition to supporting academic and industrial research development studies and innovations, you all know who's assigned to the Deputy Director of the National Academic Network and Information Centre of TÜBITAK, which publishes books and magazines to improve awareness of Turkey's science and technology policies in society, but I'll tell you once again: the director of the Ankara Zoo is appointed assistant director of the National Academic Network and Information Centre in this TÜBITAK. It's possible to replicate these and similar examples. In addition, TÜBITAK has become a laughing stock in social media with projects it has introduced for some time. For example, the acceptance of projects on solutions or awards for prayer to the cancer, which have grown faster, as well as converting the pharmaceutical plum to the term "I Have an Idea" in the TRT shows how far away from science it is from giving awards for things like "I have an idea" in the finals. Of course, prayer is a matter of spiritual strength in our faith and of asking God for help, a very special and very different matter. But that doesn't give you the right to keep people from being scientific, as if the world revolves around you alone. Look, for example, the NASA acceptance of the project, which developed the system that TÜBITAK didn't accept, which can measure the water rate in liquids, caused the scientific development of its contribution to the world's first place to NASA. This project is being used in space studies today, which TBITAK has rejected. Dear lawmakers, we are in a time when modern-day technological communications are rapidly developing and spreading. You can't prevent the spread of information with a banned mentality. You need to know that there are millions of people, people who can, who follow the communication path you're blocking in different ways. Look, Wikipedia has created an encyclopedia with a very comprehensive and universal access, encouraging the spread of information. It is a shared initiative that has contributed from all over the world, shaped by tens of thousands of volunteers, and has increasingly supported the university, the library, the museum, and so on by opening its resources to Wikipedia in recent years. The Constitutional Court explained that this world-widely supported source, which is easy to access, is being blocked, that Wikipedia is being tolerated, and even some wrong views are being expressed. But the whole world knows that because of Wikileaks documents touching the AKP's power, the ban on access has been imposed. You stopped it, but look, you couldn't stop the trial in America; the Panama, Malta, Man Island documents were spread over and over again, you couldn't stop them, you couldn't stop them. Prohibiting such a valuable resource within Turkey's borders to create the common savings of mankind does not provide the appropriate reason for blocking access to this fucking website; the truth is not in anyone's monopoly. As science has shown us, everyone can come to the truth through research, observation, evidence. These bans violate the basic principles of democracy, an attack on people's rights to access information. In parallel with this, the transformation of the ruling critic into a lynching campaign to manipulate social media is now drawn into a arbitrary area with new regulations, blocking Twitter blocks, shutting down opposition sites. In an environment where traditional media are pressured through commercial relations and judiciary, increased pressure on the Internet reveals the government's totalitarian understanding of creating an absolute censorship environment. The total silence of social opposition under the protection of national security and personality rights is a clear indication of this. One of the important cases that was on Twitter was, of course, the search made in the prison room of our co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş. Tragic, don't you think, dear lawmakers? Is this the level of technology and communication we've developed? Again, let me continue by saying exactly the same thing as our co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş. The answer was... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I finish?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0131par0384	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0130par0385	Hello, friends. I'm not kicking these tweets out of prison, they're being kicked out of prison. 2) We already know. Don't say that because there are people in Ankara who don't know that. When I was discharged from my account, the prison room was searched out of order. 3) I'm no longer at all offended by this tragicomic government that has implicated the prison staff. 4) Naturally, the room was not located in the room. For tea, there was only a kettle, and it was decided that it would not be thrown out. 5-If you're even afraid of Twitter's bird, then don't plant it. He said he looked for Twitter in the ward, but our beloved Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0132par0392	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. Second speaker, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0133par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'm going to give a speech about the Turkish Academy of Sciences, TÜBITAK and universities, and I've made a commitment to these parts of the budget. For the past 20 years, in universities and in the world of science, Turkey has suffered massive destruction, especially in the last 15 years. Every day new data appears to be related to this destruction. After the AKP came to power in 2002, there was a rapid staffing of all important institutions, especially universities, science academys, institutions, where the congregation, the Smiley congregation, was established. Thus, important principles, such as merit, scientific principles, were put aside. All of this could only happen by the powers of the era, by the governments. Political decisions were made by governments, by the sub-level congregation until 2013. The conflict that occurred in 2013, the conflict between the congregation and the AKP, was an opportunity to see what had been done until then, but unfortunately, the government did not take the opportunity well. Then, we came to the coup attempt in 2016, and after the coup attempt, the AKP made applications to further deepen this destruction, the current government. For example, exports, intensive exports from universities. These were performed with the opportunity of extraordinary circumstances. So far, we don't know the exact number of employees who have been expelled from universities, or rather, academics, but we can say that about 5,700 academics have been expelled, so we have an estimated number. But exports -- missing from university -- are not all, but 15 foundation universities have been closed on the grounds that they belong to the congregation, and the situation of the faculty here is uncertain, and they are among those who have been eliminated from the university. Many academic candidates have also been deprived of staff security as part of the teaching project. This number has been determined to be 23,427, which means the number of academic candidates to be eliminated at the request of the teacher's training project is about 23,500. Now if you look at it this way, in Turkey, you can actually see that all the investments of universities, all the investments of academics in universities, have been destroyed at once. Yes, these are investments over the years. After the coup attempt, it is the power's right to liquidate. We've said this before, but he had to do it in accordance with certain measures and regulations and control. Congress should be in charge here. These liquidations should have been directly linked to the coup. Otherwise, after a bloody coup attempt, no one expects to go on like nothing happened. It's also known to have various difficulties, but the government, the government, did not choose this path. He's declared a state of emergency. So he gave all authority to the government. The legislation issued together by the President and the Council of Ministers has carried out unknowable liquidations based on the provisions of the law. Meanwhile, academics who were the target of the congregation, who were previously said to have had no connection with the coup attempt, were personally victimised and wanted to do so. The goal here is so that it's not an effective fight with the coup. This came out. The goal here was to take control of all institutions, the government or the current government, just like the purges in 1933, which took place after the 27th of May, like the liquidation of the 147, which took place after September 12th. Especially when such a purpose is set in motion, the limit of pleasure is no longer there, and unlimited pleasure comes into play. Not only in universities, but let's add that this destruction at universities also mortgaged Turkey's future and completely undermined scientific, academic developments in Turkey, my dear friends. How long can such a grown-up academic be re-educated, none of which has been accounted for? In the name of the coup attempt, the coup attempt was fought quickly, with a great deal of exponential liquidation done, not compared to 1933, not to 1960, not to 1980, not compared to any period of impact. Moreover, the responsibility of political power has been put aside. The reason for all of these staffings was because the political power gave them opportunity, and they were the ones who signed those decisions. Now, there's not much time left for TUBIAK and TUBA, but I'd like to take a moment on TUBA. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was founded in 1993 -- it is necessary to remember itself here with mercy -- in the great effort of Mr. Erdal Inönul (Mr. Erdal) and as a result of his very thorough work of organization, an academy has emerged in harmony with universal criteria. We've been friends for several hundred years in the history of the Academy of Sciences, which can be established in 1993. These institutions, which date back a few hundred years in the West, work fully autonomous at science academys, and their members are determined by purely scientific standards by themselves, by the self-inflicted academy itself. Now, you'd be surprised if I told you about the criteria for the membership election in that 1993 decree. We can't even imagine these things in Turkey anymore, so it's chosen, proposed, measured, it has to be published internationally. After all, at least six foreigners who had entered international indexes were sent to local academics as referees, to see if they were qualified to be members of the science academy. After all these steps, we needed the approval of nine members of the 12-person scientific board. That was not enough; at least 50 percent of the general council had to approve. Such a solid system was built, and over the 18 years it could work, it also produced really valuable jobs. Until when? Until 2011. In 2011, a decree was issued in a rule of law, and a system that works so well that it works according to universal, contemporary principles, and this institution that does good works suddenly collapses, breaks down, and wants to be put under government control, under the control of power. He's been raised to 300 members; 100 members of the 300 members are elected by the TÜBİTAK Science Board -- which is already in control of the government, and there's no need to explain it -- are determined by the 100 members of the SEC, and all of these are ruling organizations. What was it made of? Don't you need an accounting, a self-criticism, some satire? THE changes made in TUBA were later described as an operation of the congregation, and it was true. At the time, many academics from the TÜBA resigned and warned the government of Turkey's most respected international academics. See, the operation here is a bad operation, a dirty operation, and it will eliminate all the scientific properties of ÜBA.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0134par0406	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0133par0407	But no, the AKP government of the period blocked their ears. Next thing you know, after July 15, 2016, the members are vaporized. Yeah, there's an expression like that. We don't know where they're going. It's exported, it's silent, there's an operation going on, by the way, but the claims of inadequacy about what's being done, let alone the claim, the truth. It's also for TUBITAK, such as, I don't know, the appointment of the Park Gardens Manager. No government can have the right to destroy Turkey's future so much. The only way to fix all of this, including the destruction of the coup attempt, is to create a public, transparent, democratic control mechanism. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0134par0410	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. The third speaker is Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0135par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of our party group, I have made a commitment to express our thoughts on the TÜBA, TÜBITAK and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. I salute the entire General Assembly. But today is December 19th. Turkey is an embarrassing day for two separate incidents in the history of democracy. First, on December 19, 1978, the anniversary of the day when the Maras massacre began planned, which, just as it did today, we went through a period of separation between all social layers of country and homeland love, and in the name of national love, the so-called slaughter was prepared, in a planned way, in the name of national love. How was it prepared? It's 21 a.m. on the night of December 19th. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man On December 21st, a teacher was killed, and the group was attacked while the teacher's funeral was being removed. On December 22nd -- the original bomb -- said in the Imam Mustafa Yildiz sermon on Friday, and the apocalypse broke out there: there is no pilgrimage by fasting, by prayer. The one who kills the Flame earns the reward as if five times he's gone on a pilgrimage. All our brothers and sisters must rise up against the government and the communists, the heathens. We will cleanse the Alekis and the Sunni unbelievers around us. According to official records, 111 people were killed, 270 homes and businesses were destroyed, but according to unofficial records, about 500 of our citizens were brutally murdered. It's the anniversary of a day like that. I strongly condemn those who committed that massacre, the silent ones, the common ones. Again, dear friends, on December 19, 2000, life-threatening operations were launched simultaneously by the attack on 20 prisons, and hundreds of people, apart from the loss of their lives, were sadly positioned to be disabled. These massacres, both December 19th, 1978 and 2000, are the days of shame that have fallen on this country's history of democracy. Dear friends, let us now say that Mithat Sancar, our dear teacher, has made valuable assessments of TUBITAK and TUBA. However, although these institutions are scientific institutions, projects and research institutions, they are governed by political opinions, not by scientific minds and individuals. They've been made prisoners of politics. Over the years, we've seen how the projects here are distributed to the allies. At that time, as we raised our objections to the AKP's government, especially when we were talking about how the Smiley community had taken over and distributed projects like superstitions, we were in our universities, and we had never learned a lesson from it, which means that these institutions are being pursued by three or four different congregations that I don't want to mention at the moment, just like the staffings at universities. Now, Science Sagittarius, 40th Hodja, has been opened up in universities under the so-called anti-profit of the Ranges, under the name of the so-called "results" and unfairly staffed... the fact that the new congregations are still being neglected by the power of the government is still a sign that there is no lesson being learned from the past. In this way, not through political advocacy, but through the universal norms of science, through righteousness, through scientific merit, these institutions need to dominate such a mind. Another issue in particular today: We woke up this morning only with 55 arrests from our different party agencies in Izmir, and shamelessly being served to the media as the so-called PKKK-KCK operation. This is a new link to the two-year chain of political genocide operations over our party, which we strongly condemn. Imagine that in İzmir, one of them, supposedly, was a live bomb -- but I'll tell you about the live bomb -- the mother, the father, and a walking disabled child are being taken. Now, is this the live bomb? Is this the kind of operation facing PKK-KCK? The elderly mother, father, and disabled child are three members of the same family... or, clearly, come out of the same family... and say: "In spite of our violence waves in all our pressures in the congres process, HDP is actively heading towards the general convention by doing district conventions, we can't handle it because despite our two-year-old dirty policies, we can't achieve our goal. In the same way, it's one thing to get a warrant to search a party building, to call its mayor under the supervision of lawyers; it's another thing; it's a pirate-like way to break through the door of a party building, which has nothing to do with law, despite all our dirty policies. Today in our Kadıköy district office, the building is officially being broken into without being told...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0136par0423	Even though it's a key.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0135par0424	...and there's a key there, wait, let's open the door, even though it's called. I strongly condemn this political genocide operation of political power against our party. Speaking of judgments, we've had our party members on trial in the case of 160 defendants in Manisa. What was one of the most important things this so-called power boasted about? It was that we had the right to defend ourselves in the native language. Our party members want to defend themselves in their native language because our friends think they can express themselves better in Kurdish. No, that's organization propaganda. What diet is this? What sauerkraut is this? We've given you the right to defend in the mother tongue as an advanced democracy. You're going to say, "You're going to give this country the shame of living in the 21st century." Another, look, yesterday the political power held a meeting with Syrian tribes and tribes in Istanbul. Now, from your neighbor, from the neighboring country, you gather different tribes and tribes, and you have meetings in your own country, and you have a statement. What is it? For the purpose of establishing a national army with the S.E.S.O., is this not an intervention in the sovereignty of another country? How dare you? Now, think, if Iran, Iraq, Russia, the dignitaries in Turkey gather the tribes, we're having these meetings in their own country and in Turkey to form a national army. As we're going to feel, Syria feels it now. We ask the political authority: Are these tribes part of the Astana Process, or part of the Geneva process, the meeting you had with these tribes in Istanbul to form a national army? Or are we in the special effort to reduce self-respect by violating the sovereignty of another country? And what he says is that you and Russia, Iran and DAEŞ had a joint business with Russia and Iran to develop a common attitude. What the hell! Now, no matter how we feel about another country doing this for our own country, the Syrians are now... and there's no tribal call there. Nothing else is being done except that Turkey has spyd and co-operated, calling close to its own people. Integrating the inside of another country, where they're trying to make it more unstable, so-called stability. And finally, because he's from Jaffa, I ask the Minister of Agriculture: One of the largest HES and irrigation projects in this country was the Ataturk Dam. Mr. Secretary, it ended in 1992. When I was a young academic in 1997, I was doing a study on Ataturk Dam and irrigation reservoir areas, and I'm going to write an article. So what I said at the time was, I said, this is one of the largest dams in the world, with 8 units, 2,400 megawatts. Well, I confirmed it today from the DSI Urban District Directorate, and I was told today that 930,000 hectares would be watered, precious friends, 9 million 300,000 acres. Until today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0137par0431	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0135par0432	Thank you. 930 grand. It's been over a quarter of a century since the dam was built. In 1997, when I was preparing the article, I wrote with regret: "Ya, five years without watering; it is a pity that this dam has been built, it consumes its life. Because if no earthquake can withstand its resistance, if there is no concussion, it will last fifty years. So how much did we water: 290,000 hectares, 31 percent. What happened? A project, a project worth tens of billions of dollars, that's the biggest project in the history of the Republic. In 1992 there was supposed to be 930,000 hectares of waterable land, which we came to 2017, where we completed, finished, and watered 290,000 hectares. I say it's a sign of how badly we've used the resources of this country, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0137par0434	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The fourth speaker is Şırnak MP Leyla Birlik. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0138par0439	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute our co-Chairs, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, again, my group's deputies, my fellow members, the Party's Co-Chair of the Democratic Territories, Mr. Sebahat Tunnel, and all political prisoners who are being held hostage in prison. Mr. President, dear friends, on behalf of my group, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Agriculture and animalism are an area where the basic needs of society are met and a significant percentage of society is a means of livelihood. At the same time, this industry, which creates jobs, provides raw materials for industry, has an important share in foreign trade. However, agriculture and animalism, a large part of Turkey's economy, has been made one of the most problematic areas because of the government's wrong policies. The problems in the field of agriculture have deepened because of unsustainable policies during AKP rule. Sustainable policy can be provided by experts with sufficient knowledge and equipment in this area, considering the country's production potential and geographical conditions. In this country, however, two ministers in charge of food, agriculture and livestock have been changed in two years. As you know, both of our ministers were people who had no expertise in food, agriculture and livestock. As agriculture and animalism changed, its policy became a changing area as the minister of agriculture and animalism changed. The main source of the unresolved problems of agriculture and animalism is that when policies are determined, the farmers and farmers who do it themselves, who work, who work, who work hard, who face a great deal of hard work, are not included in the process. Instead, however, agriculture and animalism policies are defined by the partnership of state-private sector institutions with a central understanding. In parliament, where policies have been determined, specialisation commissions have been completely dysfunctional during the AKP period. The Agricultural, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, where I have been a member of the parliament, has not met for two years, has seen areas of expertise such as agriculture, livestock, land use, land protection. However, we can only be informed by the bag of laws or by the amount of time that you can maintain agricultural and animal policy in budget negotiations once a year. Outer dependency, one of Turkey's problems with food, agriculture and livestock, continues to increase year after year. In particular, 50% of the raw material for living animals, red meat and agricultural products is imported. In 2016, the National Agriculture Project of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, one of the main elements of the International Agriculture Project, was to increase animal presence and reduce external dependency and increase exports. However, the government follows a policy contrary to this goal. Just a few months ago, the Council of Ministers announced that it authorized the Meat and Milk Foundation to import 500,000 cattle with zero customs. With measures taken to reduce rising meat prices in Turkey, the problem is not to eliminate the elements that create the problem, but to be provided with meat imports. If it continues like this, domestic animal production will be finished, and it will be turned into a completely externally dependent country. We told you that you crushed and finished the manufacturer under heavy taxes. You've raised your followers, you've made us an outsider as a country. When we say this, you get angry, but look what you've done, what you've done: Where is livestock being done in this country? We all know it's been done in Erzurum, Kars, Ankara and so on since elementary school. So I'm asking, why are almost all of the imported animals being given to large-source companies outside the scope of the tender? Mr. Secretary, from here, I'll be reading some names in a moment. I'm asking you whether these names are true and whether most of these names are Rizeli; Ali Topiz; 50,000 cattle, 30,000 small heads, 30,000 victims, 15,000 tons of imported meat. Cemil Kazancı is 50,000 karkas, 50,000 butchers, 60,000 livestock. The son of Hasan Doğan. 25,000 chieftains. Mustafa Erdoğan's son and Mis Et... Guys, this list goes on and on. On this list, there is neither Uncle Mehmet nor Aunt Ayþe in Thrace, Inner Anatolia, who deals in agriculture with a thousand difficulties. Agriculture, livestock, forest, water, subterranean and subterranean resources have been industrialized by the state and private subsidiary capital. All products related to animal activity from poultry to fish breeding, beekeeping to breeding and all products related to these activities have been commercialized by the company's own monopoly from the plant under the name of modern animalism. This approach prevents public direct, carless and free transportation to food resources in nature and ends small family farming. This is how the free, traditional economy of animalism, which society has carried out to meet its needs, is purged. Along with the problems that are being resolved by security policies, the idea of the unresolved and unresolved Kurdish problem in the Kurdistan area as a reflection of the unresolved Kurdish problem, the forced evacuation of villages, the forced migration of villages, the pursuit of sub-terranean and underground resources to aggressive capital has led to the end of agriculture and animalism. About half of Kurdish villages were evacuated by the state's exile, migration practices in the 1950s, and agriculture and livestock with livelihoods were asked to be destroyed. The same practices and practices have continued since the 1990s. Many civilian settlements have been declared a non-military zone, despite the violation of the law from September 2016, in Mehra and villages in the districts of Şırnak, where I have been elected. In the same way, agriculture and animalism are not being carried out in these areas since July 2015. Each year, with the arrival of spring, Şırnak's headquarters, as well as its districts, are taking citizens from Siirt, Bitlis, Batman, Diyarbakır, from many surrounding provinces to Farashin Yaylası to graze their animals. Farashin Yayla has been declared a restricted area for two years. The village is not able to take its animals to the pedestrians because it has been declared a restricted zone in the same way. Only this year, there were at least 24,600 minors in Beytüşşebap district of Şırnak province, 2,820 chiefs, and around 150,000 hives in Balveren district of Şırnak province have been destroyed. The most important leg of agriculture and livestock is the labor force. In Turkey's development, the agricultural sector, which is effective in providing for a part of the population, represents about 23 per cent of the employed labour force, and half of that is seasonal agricultural workers. According to TÜİK data, there are about 3.5 million seasonal agricultural workers. Seasonal agricultural workers, whose number is substantially large, are not at a level worthy of the dignity of humanity, but are also exempt from legal, legal protection. During the AKP's rule, no step has been taken to improve working conditions when seasonal agricultural workers are inescapable. The solution to this problem requires effective return to villages and opening the way for agricultural and animalry activities in which these people can govern their own territory. By the time the AKP came to power, the agricultural area where farmers worked was 24 million hectares, and about 3 million hectares of agriculture under the 15-year AKP rule have been reduced. In 2002, agricultural employment dropped by 35 per cent, while today it dropped by 20 per cent. Farmers have been unable to plant farmland the size of Istanbul. It is also a painful reality that the self-sufficient Turkey in agriculture has been brought to a point that imports corn from Argentina, wheat from Ukraine, angus from Chile, and even stems and hay from Chile to be imported in order to feed itself in AKP power, not to become a self-sufficient country in capitalistic policies, agriculture and animalism. The setting of the AKP's power in food, agriculture and animalism policies is a victim of both producers and consumers. In order to resolve these problems, the power must immediately give up the production of Rantci and termical policies. Instead, more democratic, participating, consistent and sustainable policies must be implemented immediately. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you one more question...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0139par0453	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0138par0454	In addition, Mr. Secretary, hundreds of animals are said to have been destroyed by bait in Bitlis, in Mush, in our talks. We've already submitted a question motion on this subject, but we didn't get the answer. Has it been determined that the deaths here were caused by the bait? If it's been detected, do you have any preparation for animal deaths caused by bait, any preparation to compensate? I salute the institution.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0139par0457	Thank you, Mr. League. Fifth speaker, Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0140par0462	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the HDP Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting. On this occasion, I salute you worthy lawmakers and all my chosen friends, especially my co-chairs, who are held hostage in prison. Dear friends, agriculture and livestock -- the main source of our region's livelihood -- are dying today during the AKP period. When we were a self-sufficient country in agriculture and livestock, as our friend has just pointed out, we became a meat importer today, and also an importer of hay. In the last 27 years, with the bans, the mera animalism has been brought to an end in our region. The citizen who took his animals to the plateau was both getting high efficiency, adding more value to the country's economy and its budgets, gaining healthier products. Mera, on the other hand, also protected animals from many diseases. Now more than half of the crossbow bans are equivalent to your time. You haven't taken any steps in this matter. You know, the commercial, the smiling peasant ad: "The State of Emergency is up, the pressure is over, I live free in my village." They're talking AKP. Let's stop sulking at that peasant's face, you've hurt, you've polarized, you've hurt all the people. Dear friends, in fact, I'd like to share with you what we've grown up in. The bigger we get, the bigger we grow, the more they say. Yes, today our budget is 47 billion, so 47 quadrillion. We're growing on this budget. On the other hand, we became the world's 16th largest economy. With these budget hikes, we grew up with government taxes. We have the largest army in the world, the police, the gendarmes, so we grow. We built the greatest palaces of justice without justice. We grew up in executions, in prisons, in operations. We grew up with hormones, vitamins, pills, virtual ads, thanks to a light bulb party. Cari grew up in public, foreign debt, imports, hot money, corruption, unemployment, inflation, privatisation, the hiring of state land, the selling, the statistics, the numbers. We grew up at a raise, in persecution, in the empire of fear, in torture, in arrests. In freedom of thought, organization, meeting and demonstration, in a press release, in freedom of religion and conscience, we grew from the opposite of union rights. It's about growing up, we grew up with magic words. We grow up hitting the brother, banging the neighbor, screaming at the world. We grow up in violence and murder of women, human rights violations in prisons, violations of the law. We grew up in violent society, police stations, beatings, type F, debris, tent fires, screams, screams, riots. A bunch of rich, a bunch of conglomerates, politicians, bureaucrats, collaborators, tyrants, dictators, slaves, we grew up. Who'll hire us? We grow up with elections, chests, treasury benefits, dams, arresting political opponents. Dear lawmakers, the Kenan Universe has waited 93 per cent to get its own constitution, and the AKP government says that we are growing up in 2023, the 2053, the 2071, the tender is ours, the one party, the one man, the one man, the one man, the one mind. We're growing up on discrimination against women, on the KPSS test, in torpedoes, in bribes, in fraud. We're growing up in primde, bidding, protecting and protecting the suspects of the torturers, the unsubs. We're growing up on natural gas, gas, mazota, electricity, credit rates. We're growing up in VAT, VAT, stamp tax, tuition, execution files, bankruptcy, closing companies, bad checks, lawsuits, courts. We grew up in public vehicles, meeting official power, protecting armies, oiling, being a servant, bribing, favoring, partying, driving opponents, tagging, exclusion. In the brotherhood, we became the gendarmes in the modern congregation, in the congregations, in the fatwa, in the BOP. We grew up with missile shields, NATO ramps, the irony of the crisis, being a pawn in addiction, being a toy in the hands. You're like lambs, thanks to you, we grow up with atrocities in income injustice and indirect tax hikes and raises. We've been put to sleep in soap operas, put to sleep with nationalist speeches. In minimum wage, salary, purchase value, in our money, in our stamps, in the seed, in the soil, in the grocery store, in the market, millions have become poor, a handful of us have grown. Dear lawmakers, we grew up in gangs, mobsters, coupgers, Talanda, grifts, robberies. We grew up in arms purchases, military spending. We grew up shrinking in education, health, social policy, right, law. We grew up in privatisation, in mines, licenses, energy, killing nature, history, culture. We grew up in the HES, in thermals, in nuclear energy, in the ports of the land, in the sea, in the shores, in the mountains, and in the plains of the land, after strangers. If we can't stand shoulder to shoulder against fascism and showmanship, if we can't defend brotherhood, peace, human rights, law, democracy, the fierce greed for profit grows. When the country rolled over the cliff, we drew pink paintings. In the Arab Spring, Turkey became a bird. Despot, tyrannical leaders were a history, while we were ruled by tyranny. Dear friends, why do we call this budget no? This budget is called "No" because it does not provide the necessary sensitivity to education, health, social policy, agriculture, animalism. We call the law "No" because it does not give the necessary importance of freedom. This budget is a war budget and a runt budget, not a budget that supports the concerns of our citizens. Since it does not eliminate the difference between economic development between the regions, we call it no. The budget of a single person is not allowed to be touched in commissions, so we call it no. Dear friends, especially the Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, recently went to Hakkari. While visiting the shop, as our friend has just stated, one of the butchers there says: "Mr. Minister, why do you give the meat to two companies? Why are you giving it to me? In all, the number of people who have done so is 40. Why do you allow the monopoly here? If they... Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0141par0471	It's not over yet, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0140par0472	That's where it resets, Mayor. Therefore, Minister, agriculture and livestock have already been completed in the region. Wouldn't it be better if you shared it with all the people, all the 40 of the 40 tradesmen, not just starting to run out in the region, or opened a few offices in the same way we've met in many provinces before? Or have you received an order from the palace here, too? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0142par0476	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan. Mr. President, I'd like to take your word. Of course, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Of course, we have to think of both the manufacturer and the public and the tradesman. I mean, look, you said 40 tradesmen. However, the population of Hakkari is 100, look, it's very important. 40 trades are very important to me, but it's as important to 100,000 people to buy meat at a really cheap price as it is to buy meat. But we didn't leave our tradesmen alone. Look, when we were lowering that price, we immediately raised the purchase price of the ESK, which is 23.80 cents, to $25. And we said that after January 1, 2018, we said that the manufacturer who took every animal to the slaughter was 250 lira... Look, I didn't have this in 2017. We've provided 250 lira of animal support for other benefits. For him, my dear MP, it's true, butchers are everything to me, but I assure you, I've visited those butchers in Hakkari, one by one, they're not very unhappy, and many say, "God bless us, our work has increased." We used to lower the price when we sold 10 kilos, now we're selling 20 kilos, and we're getting the same profit again. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0143par0488	Let them sell their own production, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0144par0489	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0142par0490	Mr. Akdoğan...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0144par0491	Especially if I don't...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0142par0492	Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0145par0493	Well, Minister, well! And if Hakkari is getting in the tail of the meat from Serbia or getting in the tail of the cheap meat, then woe to the country. We should all feel sorry for this, Mr. Secretary. I mean, if people line up to buy cheap meat in Hakkari, in an animal-based area, on the one end of Turkey, then what a country, Mr. Minister! Let this be on the record. GEDA, I'll answer.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0146par0495	You can answer collectively.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0145par0496	You can answer collectively.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0146par0497	Mr. President, don't let the Minister answer each time, let him respond collectively.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0147par0498	Yes, let's hear it for Mr. Akdoğan. Now, I just want to answer, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we promised Mr. Akdoğan. Mr. President, I'd like to respond. But wait a second; he's going into the system now.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0148par0504	Mr. Secretary, especially the 40 tradesmen I was just talking about here, it's not just the 40 butchers there. Now, after the opening of this BIM and A101, hundreds of our tradesmen in Hakkari have had to close their shop there. Now, when you give the meat to six points there as a government, the citizen there, the shopkeeper there, he loses his own client. Against the monopoly here, Mr. Secretary, or, of course, the state should consider not only two firms there, but also its people; it shouldn't be involved in an attempt to cause the tradesmen there to be victims, nor should the state's mind need it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0147par0507	Will you answer, Mr. Secretary? Yes, of course, I'll answer. Here, we'll turn on your microphone. Now, it would be unfair if we just gave Istanbul, or just Haqkari, meat. When we went to the tender -- look, this is very important -- we looked at markets in 81 provinces and districts, and there were two markets, and these markets paid the same price. If one of the prices had been outweighed, I mean, if it had been right for us, we would have given it to a grocery store.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0149par0512	Cognitive combat! What matters to us is to embrace all of Turkey. My second answer is no more meat from Serbia. No, my friend, we didn't buy meat from Serbia.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0150par0515	Is he coming, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0151par0516	Aren't you going to take it? Look, I'll talk to you in a minute, but I can hear you very well.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0150par0518	He didn't come, but he will! Sir, we don't buy for ornaments, our people, so is Serbia's animal separate, is the animal separate from Şırnak? Are animals different? What is our purpose here? It's really about feeding people meat that fits their purse. You can buy meat for $45, but it's only natural for my citizen to buy meat for $30.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0152par0520	He'll make it! GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY Wait a minute... [[Noises from HDP rows]] Let the Indian produce it!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0153par0524	Mr. President, you put an announcement on the stand, and we don't know. What are they doing, guys? Guys, look...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0154par0527	The livestock is over!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0153par0528	Oh, my God! Has it been announced? He didn't. My dear friends...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0155par0531	Mr. Lightning... The mothers say: "God bless you, God bless you. The disciple says: I make two meals with half a kilo of meat. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0156par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0157par0535	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0158par0536	Okay, have you been announced, Behcet Hodja?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0159par0537	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0158par0538	You've got time to talk. Go back to your place. Is there such a procedure? You've turned the coven into...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0160par0539	It's not the job of the Department of Agriculture to bring meat from abroad to make sure people here eat cheap meat. The Department of Agriculture is...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0159par0540	Now we're in question-answer shape, not like this...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0160par0541	...to make meat for the animal maker here, to feed its people cheap meat. That's the job of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0161par0543	What the hell is that? Mr. President, what the hell is that?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0162par0544	Yeah, now it's his turn.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0161par0545	What do we do? When you give it to me, you'll come out and talk to me. We've changed the Civil Code, what a thing to do!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0163par0546	Mr. President, I'd like a short word for 60.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0547	Mr. Akar, I will promise you after Mr. Yıldırım. I'll call Mr. Yıldırım to the stand after that.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0163par0548	You haven't called yet, sir. I mean, I can take it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0549	You're looking at power of attorney?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0163par0550	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0551	All right, then, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0165par0552	Mr. President, please remove what's on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0553	Okay, Mr. Lightning will speak. No, you don't have to. Mr. Thunderbolt will speak, Mr. Inceöz.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0166par0556	Okay, did we call it in, did he get on the stand?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0167par0557	Is ten seconds less a profit, ma'am?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0558	We'll do it in a minute. It's all right, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0168par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. He said they wanted to feed Turkey cheap meat, and said they would feed it through the Meat and Milk Foundation. Currently, the Meat and Milk Foundation has a mandate to regulate the market, and its regulatory function is that the total share of the production of meat and milk is 3 per cent of the total production of meat in Turkey. They can now use 30 percent of the capacity of their combination. Even if he used all of it, his ability to regulate the market is less than 5 per cent. Therefore, in Turkey, cheap meat is a problem even if it is imported. It's a fact that can't be solved that way.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0164par0563	Thank you, Mr. Akar. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the sixth speaker is Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0169par0616	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, HDP, on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture's Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization. I salute all tobacco workers here, especially my Adıyaman countrymen, who have been victimised by the latest tobacco law, who are watching us at the beginning of the screen. Now, two days ago, as a physician, you talked about the Health Ministry budget. What do you care about tobacco and alcohol? Wouldn't it be better if someone else had spoken? But look, Mr. Minister of Agriculture is a physician, and he's a general surgeon. AKP power finished agriculture, agriculture is dying, all treatments have been performed, medical, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, alternative medical treatments have been performed, has not helped, has now been put on the agricultural operating table. My colleague, Dr. Ashraf Fakibaba, will perform an operation, see if he can save the patient. Don't let him be sick, Minister. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your work is very difficult, Minister. If my beautiful country of agriculture is now imported hay, chickpeas, lentils, meat, your work is really hard. I hope you succeed. When the Minister of Agriculture becomes general surgeon, it's perfectly normal for me to talk about tobacco that deals very closely with Adıyaman. Now, I'm looking at the Vice President's budget presentation in budget talks at the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Foundation, and he's talking about the strategic importance of the tobacco and alcohol market, and he's keeping an important position in terms of its revenues. Let me tell you a little bit about who the tobacco production and the market really is strategic and important to. Adıyaman was a strategic and serious source of income for tobacco production, the Adıyaman manufacturer, and all Adıyaman tobacco markets, and indirectly all Adıyamanians and all Adıyaman economies. However, with some Tax Laws 7061 adopted last month, the AKP took an important step towards the completion of some other Laws and tobacco producers and small tradesmen. You've brought legal obstruction under the name of legal regulation. Tobacco producers wanted to make their voice known in democratic ways in order to react rightly to this tobacco ban. However, what did the governor's office do against it? The press has banned their statement. I thought the State of Emergency was supposed to be applied to the state, not to the citizen. They used the State of Emergency to suppress the right demand of farmers and tobacco manufacturers. They didn't have to be so disproportionate, so violent. The people looked for an answer. There were no governors, no AKP deputies. When the public didn't see the governor, the AKP MPs, they didn't take initiative, the tobacco manufacturers and security forces were left alone, and unfortunately, these unpleasant images came out, my friends. Look, just people who say, "Tut's our sweat." People with Turkish flags, people with simple exchanges, they got gas, sticks. Three or four hours there, they practically tortured the public, over 100 tobacco producers were taken into custody. We tried to talk to the governor to calm things down. I went to the governor's office, but the governor's bodyguards at the governor's gate didn't want to see you. The governorship and the advocates of this law took refuge behind the word "provocator" to criminalise the press statement the public wanted to make. Who's the provocateur, the tobacco manufacturer? This action was developed by the public themselves by taking initiative, organised by social media. Just as tobacco is a political issue, the action is completely political. Tobacco producers wanted to make their voice known in democratic ways only to show a legitimate response to the tobacco ban, but they were rewarded with gas, water, and baton. That's when I condemned this disproportionate and unfair treatment of tobacco manufacturers, tobacco tradesmen, and now I condemn it. After the press release, the governor threw gas bombs at us. A month later, more than 100 people were taken into custody. How many of them came from out of town, who had dropped gas bombs, and yet, for some reason, they still haven't been explained. And they can't explain it because it's a lie. They were all tobacco manufacturers, all Adıyaman people. You have a classic expression: we didn't ban your speech, we didn't shut it down. Tobacco was already banned, and Kemal Dervis and the IMF had already closed it. But who has been in power for fifteen years? If Kemal Dervis forbids tobacco, the IMF forbids it, you're local and national, you should have let him go. On the contrary, you've added more to the ban by bringing three to six years of punishments to the tobacco trade, indiscriminate to crime. As far as I'm concerned, the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory is completely ending the domestic tobacco market, leaving this market to international cigarette monopoly. As a result of agreements with the World Bank, there has been a decline in agriculture since the day of Law 4733. Dear lawmakers, we have repeatedly explained the effects of tobacco on social life in this Parliament, in private with Adıyaman. We said over and over again that Adıyaman would be condemned to poverty and labor. For Adıyaman's sake, this helix was taking advantage of all the businesses in Adıyaman because of the processed tobacco trade. Now, imagine a project like this, a production site like this, that it prevents migration from the village to the city, protects social tissue, creates a serious employment area, the manufacturer earns because his labor pays off, wins because he trades in trades, and the consumer wins because he buys cheaply and saves money out of his pocket. It also prevents cigarette smuggling from abroad, which you try to prevent with penalties and bans. But what did you do? So, this was the actual state of the tobacco production and trade that had been cut into the helix. Because of this situation, Adıyaman and the local tobacco manufacturer had this expectation from the government from the beginning, and, look, we have weaned tobacco, but it's free to produce, but it's not allowed to sell. When we send this tobacco to other cities, our tobacco is confiscated on the way, and we're fined. We want this situation to end, and we want to be able to sell the weaned tobacco that we've produced. Find a solution and support this production, and make it legal. What did you do? You're trying to destroy the current market of smoked tobacco with solid punishments. It's a crime to even have smoked tobacco for commercial purposes. We made it legal by co-op, but you're not trying to support the sale by co-op, you're trying to finish tobacco production by co-op. It is determined that the co-op will be established at certain centers and only by the board's permission. So tomorrow's next day, you can't build a co-op here. If he says, tobacco won't be able to be processed and sold by cooperatives. It's hard to build a co-op, but the manufacturer got together and called it a co-op. So, what's the tax rate on this tobacco that the co-op is going to sell and buy? We'll discuss the tax rate later. If there's going to be tax records on similar rates of tobacco products -- because tobacco products have 80 percent tax dollars -- let me start by saying that this cooperative has zero chance of competing with cigarette companies. This will start a process that will also lead to the closure of cooperatives in the future. Adıyaman tobacco will no longer take its place in traditional tobacco markets. Where's it gonna be? At the mercy of firms, it will be in the stockpile of a firm -- legal, modern robbers -- where farmers, not peasants -- the owners of that warehouse will win or the Adıyaman tobacco will rot in the barn of a cooperative, unable to compete with cigarette companies. Tobacco bans can't be considered independent of agricultural policy, friends. We've turned the country into a non-producing, consumer-dependent market. Just as meat imports have become a country that imports hay, so we become a country that imports tobacco. Otherwise, buy, co-op, sell your tobacco here, and I'll get 80-83 percent tax from you. If you bring a lot of tax on macaroon, it's not legal security, it's legal obstruction. My fellow lawmakers, what's the situation now? Traders selling Adıyaman tobacco, which is a serious market in Turkey, are being operated on, seized in large quantities, as well as in western provinces and metropolitan areas, as well as as in the name of "Duman-1" and "Duman-2," as if they were selling marijuana. He wasn't carrying cargo, the public resisted. Then, with a request, they gratefully promised to move the cargo companies until July, but there's no tobacco to carry because the market was destroyed. Those carrying tobacco are also caught on the road, their tobacco is confiscated, fines are fined for up to 92,000 TL, and cars are tied up. The citizen is resorting to various ways to avoid paying the fines that have been confiscated. The demand for Adıyaman tobacco has been reduced as a result of all these prohibitive practices, and the farmer's tobacco remains in their hands. Our peasants who couldn't sell their tobacco have been victimized, unable to provide for them. Adıyaman, whose livelihood is based on tobacco, is now in great recession. I've been getting a lot of calls and texts about this.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0170par0636	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0169par0637	But it can't go on like this, it shouldn't. We must take care of our Adıyaman. I say let's not discipline Adıyaman with any more unemployment, hunger, or hard labor. The restoration of an institution such as TEKEL, which will oversee the production, consumption, marketing of tobacco known for its damage to health, will be a real solution. Neither our producers nor our consumers should be left at the mercy of the global giant cigarette monopoly. In the meantime, there is a section of AKP authorities that strive to ensure that it does not be harmed in the locals. Because they depend on power and feed there, their job is to clear power. They cling to all kinds of lies so that there will be no harm in power, and even if the government admits that they did wrong, they try to hide the truth through various lies and flattery. And from here, I strongly condemn them. Don't throw away your conscience, hold on to the facts, stop lying and misinformation. At the same time, I wish that the Ataturk Dam, which is important to Adıyaman, should come into play as soon as possible, with respect.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0171par0642	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The seventh speaker is Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0172par0647	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AK PARTY lines are a little empty as usual, but, sir, let's have a little chat with him here, and I'll be in your area. It is said that of Adam and Eve's children, two of them fight, and Cain kill Abel. I've told you this briefly here before, but it's better to repeat it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0173par0650	The Qur'an does not exist in the Qur'an.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0172par0651	It's a rumor. Now, if we translate from Hebrew to Turkish, the meaning of Cain means that we can accept the miller, or metaphorically, as a blacksmith. When we translate from Hebrew to Turkish, Abel means "wind, breath, breath, life. " Now, in recent years, scientists and philosophers who have pondered the future of mankind have turned it into a metaphor beyond belief. Thus, the more powerful in the eyes of us ignorant people, the more destructive industry, represents the destruction of nature and the more human nature. In the history of mankind, this fight has always gone on, and the strong have always destroyed the weak. Now, in human history, the industrial-natural contradiction and man's unplanned intervention in nature have been expressed by an Indian chief. He's saying the same thing, and when the last river dries, when the last tree disappears, when the last fish dies, we shouldn't be the white man he's calling out to find out that money is something that can't be eaten. We need to think and act in Abel, not in Kabul, but in Kabul. So we need to understand that nature's empty space, a park, a tree, a bird, a bug is precious, we need to develop that consciousness. Now I'd like to give you two examples: a few months ago, we had discussions about olive groves here, and at the time, Mr. Prime Minister asked the question, "Tesis or olivery?" If anyone who says "testis" they've acted in Kabulvar and the government behaves in that way, and we said, "No, olives are precious, olives are one." Second: We must also hand over the precious rights of our Minister of Forestry and Water, who has completed a water-related project to Cyprus, which we hand over to you. It's a tough project, and you've done it, but you've crossed the sea, you're drowning in the creek, and I'm sorry. Yesterday, you sent us this water, which is a Kabularian act, which means you could have sent it to us in a nature-friendly thing, with a plastic bottle, which is wrong, Mr. Secretary. I hope we never see those pet bottles in public institutions and corporations again. You're in a search for alternatives. You've got good work, but please don't drown in the creek. In the dilemma of industry or nature, the government, of course, has broken the wheel from the Testis-industrial. But, as Adorno put it, the wrong life will not be right, but the work that will be done without the centralizing of man and nature, without the Abelian industrialization policy, will lead to urbanization without a city, or the creation of freaky industries, or freaky cities. Ladies and gentlemen of law, members of power love to make beautiful, colorful, golden gilded sentences. In his speech at the 52nd General Assembly Meeting of TÜBA, Mr. Minister Özlü says: "In our lands and in our culture, the scientist of science and science has always been appreciated, respected, and held in high esteem. " But Mr. Secretary, we find the budget for scientific research to be low, let's put aside, but the value given to scientists shows that the fact that the academics who have been dismissed, expelled from office because of the laws you signed, are not as you say. Exports or reputations, I think you should be clear about that, please. Precious lawmakers, if you buy the world's leading companies in 2016, each of them has a budget of between 10 billion and 13 to 14 billion dollars to R&D; Turkey, according to TİK data, has earmarked about $2 billion to RD. So the amount of funding and spending from our central management budget for research development is less than any of these companies, but we insist that the whole world is jealous of us. Is that so? As a government, you're saying there's a lot of work going on for RD activities. For example, in January 2017, I discussed the Science, Industry and Technology Ministry's "AR-Ge Reform Package" -- it's still on your website, I just looked at it yesterday. When this package is examined, there are a lot of questions to be asked about, but I would like to draw your attention to one here, and you say that the minimum number of RD personnel in sectors that operate with a few R&D personnel will be reduced from 30 to 15 degrees, why not 1? Because innovation ideas aren't created by 15 people or 30 people, they're created by 40 people, they're created by one person, and they're activated. In Düsseldorf and Cologne, I had two other friends in each of these centers, and they had a joint company, and they were operating. So I think this number should be reduced to 1. There is no need to talk about the brand and patent registration in Turkey, the numbers are very low. Besides, there's a regional inequality. So if you remove Ankara in Central Anatolia, İzmir in the Aegean Region, there's no patents anywhere in Turkey, so if you include the others, there's no need to talk about it at all. We'd like you to set up the regional balance at least a little bit there. Now, about the national and domestic car. Friends, there's nothing in the world anymore, and there's no such thing as a national and domestic car. What you're referring to is a national and domestic brand, and we're in it. We can all form national and domestic brands, but not national and domestic cars or airplanes. Sometimes, because you use it for free selection material, sometimes in the international arena, people actually condone it in Turkey, but you're being ridiculous. Before the election, we build our local passenger plane, we build our own fighter plane, we build electric cars. You say a lot of funny things like that, and now you're under it. I'm running out of time, I'll pick up here on Thursday, maybe your bureaucrats can watch. Now, making domestic automobile brands -- not with the blogans -- happens with the mind, with the science, with the scientists. If there's academic freedom, human interrogations, interrogating individuals, science develops; on the contrary -- you -- my teacher just told me -- you're preventing an academic from throwing out of the academy and contributing to the science by firing them without legal guarantees and regulations. What's the result? People are going abroad -- there are 3-5 brains here -- please don't make them go abroad. Bottom line: Turkey's industrialisation perspective is problematic, as I said upstairs. I salute the General Assembly, saying it would be naive and not naive to think that plans and projects drawn with a paradigm of industrialisation, which is not nature and human-based, which is not science, which is not aesthetic, which is the goal of enriching a handful of rich people, will lead to prosperity.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0174par0665	Thank you, Mr. Pir. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the eighth and final speaker is Tunceli MP Mr. Alican Önlü. Mr. Önlü, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0175par0670	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the budget of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs in 2018. I salute you all. First of all, I salute all the co-chairs taken hostage, MPs, co-chairs, city councilmen, party members and employees, as well as all the comrades trapped in prison today, fighting for democracy, peace, freedom. Members of parliament, today is December 19th, a black mark on our country, because December 19th has been a double massacre in the history of democracy in this country. On October 20, 2000, hundreds of political prisoners began their death fasts to protest against the F-type cell system and isolation. The compassionate hand of the state at the time is an operation that actually kills the state but darkens the lives of the state, calling it a resurrection operation. 30 revolutionary prisoners lost their lives in this operation, 237 prisoners injured. I remember the prisoners, the revolutionaries who lost their lives in this massacre, and I curse the massacrers. Again, a massacre was organised against the Alekis in Maras on December 19, 1978, such as Koçgiri, Dersim, Sivas. I honor those who died in this massacre by civilian fascist forces under the government's supervision, and I curse the mind of the state that is standing by to perform this massacre. In a country where human life is so cheap and massacred so intense, nature's massacres continue in the same way. The 15-year-old AKP government destroys the forest's ecosystem, water basins, mountains, natural and cultural values for economic and political gains due to energy, agriculture, environmental and security policies. At this point, social, economic and cultural values of people who have lived in harmony with nature for hundreds of years have suffered serious destruction because of the state's policies. Members of lawmakers, today's power has activated practices in the 1990s, systematically burning the forests in the region for security reasons, and in the west to convert them into Rant fields for secondary capital. Again, private security zones have been declared, and with the dam and HES construction, people's natural habitats have been destroyed and forced to abandon villages and meadows. Burning forests and villages, part of the 1990s battle strategy, was systematically activated, including the second half of AKP's rule in 2015, including Dersim, Diyarbakır, Bingol, Mardin, Siirt and Haqkari, and thousands of acres, and the natural habitat was destroyed. Again, thousands of hectares of forest areas were destroyed as a result of systematic forest fires in the districts, while forest fires in these provinces were not included on the official website of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs and its municipal administrations. This mindset, which denies Kurdish language, identity, and everything, also denied its nature. You know, last year and this year, when my class was burned whole, when the local owners of his local estate did not put out the fire, while the local institutions did not intervene in this fire, the budget is now asked for, while it did not value two sentences on its website. Again, thousands of hectares were destroyed as a result of systematic forest fires in the region's provinces. As a result of the bombing of police fire and cobra helicopters under the name of security in July 2017 alone, fires covering the forests of the districts of Derim Central, Pülümür, Hozat, Nazımiye, Chemisgek, Ovacık, ovacık districts, and their sacred sites and graveyards continued until October, and thousands of hectares of natural habitats were burned. In other areas, except for several areas where forest fires have been started, volunteers and people themselves have been banned from interfering with these fires and have been fired upon by security forces. Minister Eroglu's response to a question proposal we submitted was: There are 24 fire extinguisher helicopters throughout Turkey, and he replied that if necessary, those helicopters could be sent to all regions. But, stop putting out fires, it's a helicopter that puts out fires in the west, but it's turning out to be a fire engine in the area. Members of parliament, the people of Dersim make beekeeping, livestock, vineyards, gardens and agriculture to support themselves. 870 family beekeeping and 900 families are on foothills to do small-sized livestock. The fire by law enforcement forces in forest areas also ended the economic activities of the region's people. That was to reduce the people from production and connect them with the culture of alms. The governor was given a plaque in the palace the other day by the AKP's President, and the reason for the plaque is because of the highest employment in Turkey, Dersim. You're going to leave thousands of people without production, you're going to build a workshop of 100 people, and you're going to call it employment, and you're going to brag about it, and you're going to wear a medal. The villages that were evacuated in the '90s and returned after the year 2000 were also set on fire in those areas, preventing return. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the government's dam under the name of energy and development is being destroyed by the HES projects, by human history and culture. Mr. President, there are 27 dams and HES for security only within the district of Dersim. Some of these dams and HES projects were built illegally, as there were no nastile zoning plans. With dams and HES projects planned to build in Dersim, the districts of Dersim are to be cut off, and the sacred places of the people of Dersim on the valleys are to be flooded. In 1937-1938, the genocide, which was conscious, planned, programmed, and today planned and planned for security purposes, was intended to be removed from the people's natural habitats and economic activities by establishing special security zones, by being licensed to mine with forest fires, supporters. However, it is intended to be done today, which was not exactly committed in the 1937-1938 genocide. So they wanted to dehumanize Dersim, to get rid of the boil in their own words. Congressmans, we are facing a cultural and ecological genocide. Hasankeyf, the ancient city and the Tigris River around it, which has been living for 12,000 years, has had traces of eastern and western cultures to this day, and has been permanently inhabited by people for the past 12 thousand years, and it is wanted to be flooded with such a date because of a dam that has an economic life span of 50 years. If the Ilisu Dam is completed, most of the caves will be flooded with historical and cultural values, such as churches, mosques, shrines, and stone bridges. Of course, with this destruction, not only cultural values, but close to 100,000 people will be subject to forced migration. Turkey fell into a blind well. Those who have persecuted their own citizens, tried to violently suppress any society that opposes them, those who engaged the ecological cultural genocide, let them not forget that it never did, nor will it ever hold again. With this budget, you can build new palaces, kingdoms, you can increase a rich minority, the worker of this country, the peasant, will eventually send you to your rightful place. The struggle of women, young peoples and peoples against democratic Turkey will bring you down from your palaces. Our democratic legitimacy against this war and looting budget will continue until we democratize the republic along with all parts of society.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0176par0688	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0175par0689	The destruction of the dams, the HESEs, is certainly too heavy to be compensated in all the geography, all the places, but there is another aspect in my class of opposition to the dams, of being so sensitive, that you drown their sanctity with the water they consider sacred. The relationship between nature and society, which they call............................................... x................................... the relationship between nature and society.............. You can't move these visits anywhere else. When you build a dam, you can move the land, you can move the tree, but for that people, for the people of Dersim, you can't move Munzur Baba, Mama Fatma, Gola Chetu, anywhere. That's why I'm in [[Applause from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So here's the thing: the people of my class don't want anything from you, they want you to take your hands off our sanctity, or they don't want dams from you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0177par0694	Thank you, Mr. Önlü. Fifteen minutes to unification...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0178par0696	Mr. President, I'm in the system.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0177par0697	I'm taking a break. I was going to say Mr. Incesik. Let's give it to him when he opens it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0178par0699	Sure.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit03spe0177par0700	Yeah, all right. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0177par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Inuöz, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0179par0008	Mr. President, thank you. There were some comments in the conversation earlier, and there was a need to make a statement about them. In the previous conversation, a phrase was used: "The mindset that denies the language and religion of Kurd. " I want to make it clear that we have rejected it. We don't accept terms like prisoners or hostages, there are prisoners. In addition, expressions such as "saray," "war," "tastruck." These expressions are used from time to time in the previous talks, and we reject them. The budget here will, of course, transfer significant resources to the defence industry, because when we look at the geography where Turkey has been found, there is a process of counterterrorism, where both inside and outside threats and terrorist organizations are arming each other. In particular, I want to point out that there is no such distinction in Turkey, either Kurd or Turk. Since the first day we came to power, we've taken really important steps to remove these differences, to remove these discriminations, to raise the wrong policies of the 90s, to raise the 80 million for unity, unity, determination and determination of a living; to give Kurdish names, to speak of Kurdish, media, publishing organs, in many areas, especially universities, to build Kurdistan libraries, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0180par0013	They're all closed, President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0181par0014	You've turned it all off.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0179par0015	If you open it, Mr. President, I'll continue.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0182par0016	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0179par0017	Talks with relatives of prisoners and prisoners in prisons in the main language, which they couldn't even do in the past period. The settlement units were given Kurdish names in particular; the last time they were removed by trustee appointments, there was also an explanation of our interior ministry for that, and again he made a statement regarding the use of Kurdish names in the same way, and I want to make it clear that we have rejected these allegations. Many issues, especially the steps taken in these areas, were born here with the Kurdish issue of Kurdish, Turkish, Laz, Çerkek, that we made no distinction, that we tried to cover up the fight against terrorism and make it look like such a discrimination, which we had to declare and proclaim once again to all Kurdish brothers from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0183par0020	Well, thank you, Mr. Incescuz. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, now it's time for the Justice and Development Party Group to speak. The first speech is from Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koker. Here you go, Mr. Coacher. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0184par0074	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2018 of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have now become a reality that Turkey's goal of becoming an active and powerful actor all over the world, not just in its own district. In the last seven years since the global financial crisis, the European Union has grown by 1.4 per cent, G-20 3 per cent, while Turkey has grown by 7 per cent average. Turkey's economy has grown for seven years without interruption and has performed a powerful performance. The third quarter growth of 2017 is 11.1 per cent; that is a record, and a record that leaves China and India behind the growth record. This success is an achievement to be applauded and proud of. Despite all political and economic operations conducted against our country from covert and open, this success clearly reveals how strong, strong and resistant the Turkish economy is. I also think the third-quarter growth share of the manufacturing industry is important: 15.2 percent. That's an important number because that means production, more work, more employment. Under the protection of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with the encouragement of our government and the support of our business world, nearly 1.5 million of our citizens have been employed in the last year alone. As a result of innovations in the investment and incentive system and support from our government, investments continue rapidly. Industrial production is increasing, employment is increasing, Turkey is growing. Exports are at 155 billion dollars and rising. The year of 2017 remains. Our COBIs, our business world, our tradesman, our industrialist and exporter, know you're with him. On the one hand, the new generation's bail system, the Loan Guarantee Fund, has increased Treasury support, while our SMEs are being given bail support for close to 220 billion liras, while the KOSGEB (274.517) and the company are taking advantage of 6 billion 700 million lira loans without interest. In 2016, the RD Reform Package and this year's Production Reform Package open the way for investment, production, exports. With the Test Property Law, Turkey, which is an international investor, is becoming the center of attraction; patents, brands, designs, application processes are getting easier, registration times are getting shorter. By the end of 2017, 100 geographical signs, 1,000 patents, 40,000 brands and 20,000 design documents are being issued. Turkey's agenda is the Fourth Industrial Revolution, with artificial intelligence, sensors, advanced robotics. Turkey's agenda includes high-tech domestic car products with competitive competition in the world market, programmes to encourage entrepreneurs with business ideas in the areas of RD and technological innovation. More than $600m was spent on RD projects in 2017. The I.T. Valley is rapidly being completed, which will employ 100,000 qualified people, including 5,000 RDs and software companies. Dear lawmakers, despite all of this, despite the civil wars, regional crises, and the treacherous coup attempt, Turkey is a shining star all over the world. We are proud of our country. We have to spend Turkey's energy and power not infertile strife, but in work, in production, in investment, as long as we're united, as long as we embrace each other. Well, then, things will be so much easier, so much different. Let's focus our minds on science, technology, IT, RD, innovation, branding and design. Let's build together a science center, a technology base and a country of advanced industry, a Turkey. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology's budget of 2018 to be blessed, and salute our Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation, and Jerusalem, the capital of Palestine.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0185par0085	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Mr. Yiğitalp, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0186par0090	Mr. President, we're in a violent spiral as a country, and it's especially possible to see it in animals. We're in a growing, self-producing spiral of violence that tortures a kitten, violence against stray animals. In this context, the total budget of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2017 is 14 billion 663 million and 74000 euros, the only ministry in charge of animal rights violations. Again, the allowance for street animals in 2017 is $11,500,000. The budget corresponds to 78 percent of the budget. In 2017, the allowance for rehabilitation of wild animals is $2,500,000, which is 17 percent of the budget. Is there anything wrong with this budget for stray animals and wild animals? Do you have any work to do to increase this budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0185par0092	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, the second speaker is Giresun MP Cemal Ozturk. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Ozturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0187par0145	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2018 of our ministry of science, industry and technology. I salute our Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation watching us at the beginning of their screens, and the precious people of our heart geography with respect and conversation. As with previous budgets prepared by EC PARTY governments, the budget for 2018 was based on fiscal discipline, rapid growth, increased employment and improving revenue distribution. The largest share of the budget of the 2018 year, envisioned for 762 billion to 800 million dollars, is again earmarked for education at $134 billion, as in previous budgets of the AK PARTI governments. In 2018, Turkey also earmarks more than a third of its budget for education and health. Again, social support and expenditures are earmarked to 51, agricultural support programmes 15, agricultural sector investment funds 10, local governments 73, and investment funds 85 billion. The budget for the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is $11.5 billion. About half of this is divided into KOSGEBίe and TÜBITAK. Our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is working to improve Turkey's scientific capacity, to build its own technology, to develop its own technology, to build modern industrial sites, qualified organised industrial regions, mega and private industrial areas, and to ensure its survival. Based on the budgets of the previous years, the full funding for the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology appears to have been used in some years or even more. I believe the budget funding for 2018 will also be effective and efficient. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, at this point in my speech, I'd like to refer to the local brand car project, which is run by the co-ordinator of our Ministry of Science Industry and Technology. This project, which excites all of us as a nation, is a process which, as it is known, begins with the call of Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a local car investor at TÜSİAD General Assembly in 2011. Taking into account this call, our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges, finally conducted a thorough study of the Anatolian Group, BMC, Kıraça Holding, Turkcell, not one of our difficult holdings, but five of our senior entrepreneurs, the Joint Initiative Group, who will bring together and produce Turkey's automobile. Basically, Turkey is one of the number-one countries of the world in the automotive industry. Many automotive companies still operate in different brands in our country. We also have a powerful automotive side industry that produces parts and materials for brands operating in Turkey and automotive companies around the world. As a matter of fact, 1,544,000 vehicles were produced in Turkey during January-November 2017. The record of all time has been broken with 1 million and 48,000 auto productions. It's a huge flaw that our country, which has such infrastructure and a dynamic side industry, does not have a domestic car brand. Its brand, design, engineering, technology, production, marketing, Turkey's national brand car, which takes away the idea of making our idea of producing a national car from a dream, and turns it into reality, saying that we are grateful to all who have done it, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, that the budget should be good for our nation, our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0188par0151	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Sugar, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0189par0156	Thank you. Mr. President, he takes his place in the first place in terms of the added value he has provided for the country's economy. The industrial capital, Alexei, also contributes seriously to the country's economy in agriculture, animalism and tourism. In general, 40 per cent of Alexandria consists of forest, 2 per cent of industry, and 36 per cent of agriculture. Karamursel baskets of Karamursel, Tepeköy beans in the Karamursel district of Alexandria, and Karamursel baskets for filling them; Hacı Omar chestnuts, Ihcham diamond; the half cherry of our Gulf district; the penitents of Izmit, the grapes of Izmit, the fruit of Kandira, and the fruits of our village's Mashukiya; the fruits of our town; and the fruit of our household. Honourable lawmakers have been sent to your rooms as a courtesy of the husband. Enjoy it now and keep it to yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0190par0160	Thank you very much, Mr. Sugar. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, the third speaker is Mr. Huseyin Flitz, the Commissioner of Çankırı. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0191par0213	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to the Central Management Budget Act of 2018 as the Chantraki MP for the EC PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology's Development and Support of Small and Medium Enterprises Administration. I salute the House of People. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My fellow lawmakers, in 81 counties, we have 92 COSGEB directorates. What are they doing? They develop entrepreneurial culture, support RD studies, increase the export share of COBIs, provide opportunities to boost competitiveness. Of course, entrepreneurial culture is very important to SMEs. Enterpriseship equals taking risks, and the basis of success is to take risks, both in business and in politics. Of course, my dear friends, a thousand people have been given entrepreneurial training by 2003, but in the period of our government, from 2003 to today, that number has reached 1 million people. In order to start their own business, entrepreneurs have been provided with $150,000 in support, with no refunds, $100,000 in repayment. There are people who have reached out to all of our MPs to get support from KOSGEB. By November 2010-2017, over 45,000 entrepreneurs who started their own business were funded by $1 billion. During the 1990-2002 period, only $14,500,000 was transferred to our SMEs, and during our administration, the amount reached $3 billion, 120 million, so the old money provided 3 quadrillion 120 billion. Small and medium-sized businesses are more successful in organised industries, not just by themselves. Dear friends, there are 309 organised industries in our country. The 112 terms of these have earned a corporate personality in our time. Looking back on the past period, at the end of 2002, a total of 45,000 people work in the OSB. In December 2017, the number reached 1,725 thousand people. So where are 45,000 people, 1 million 725, I want to get your attention. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the OSB model in Turkey, have become a brand in the world. I mean, the world comes to Turkey as an example of its industrial model, organised industrial model. An example? We will build an organised industry for Palestine.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0192par0221	It's an unknown country in the Palestinian world. Look where he's paradigming!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0191par0222	One of these OSBs is the Near-City Organised Industrial Zone, where we acquired its corporate personality in 2012. There's a Japanese giant tire factory in our chamois OSB, and there's a battery factory in the world that's in the top three. Our Giresun MP just mentioned the local car. Of course, the local automobile is the right of Çanrı. Why is he right? You spend five or six years building an organized industry somewhere, building a substructure of electricity, water, natural gas, decontamination, land ownership, that takes you five or six years. Well, we're five or six years ahead of us, which is why we deserve the local car. For the local car, they say it's going to be the city of Liman, with the transportation advantage.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0193par0223	We'll bring the sea!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0191par0224	So, brother, if there's a shipping advantage, we've got a tire factory, a battery factory; that's a shipping advantage, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0194par0225	Then don't let them do it to you. Let them do it somewhere else that isn't there.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0195par0226	If not, resign.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0191par0227	So, now, how are you going to get jobs for people in Anatolia if you always send all the investments to big cities, if you evacuate Anatolia? Let's reverse the migration. The only way to reverse the migration is to buy investments and local automobiles into Çanrı. We deserve it. I expect all of you to support me on this. In 2018, I ask that the central management budget law bring blessings to our country, our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0196par0230	Thank you, Mr. Flitz. The fourth speaker is Gaziantep MP Ahmet Uzer. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0197par0235	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of 2018 of the Turkish Institute of Standards, which is the relevant organisation of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. The Institute of Turkish Standards provides services that are of great importance to our country, both national and internationally, in its assessment of fitness -- which is the scope of experiment, examination, surveillance and documentation -- with the organisation of primary field standards. The TSE was founded on 18/11/1960 dates and 132. Dear lawmakers, the world is shrinking, and trade is expanding in parallel with technological developments that are mind-blowing every day. It has a critical importance for evaluation of the standard, facilitating world trade, and the creation of the common language of trade. Standards and compatibility assessment is often used by developed countries to create technical barriers to trade. It is also known that countries who set the rules and standards govern world trade. As you know, in recent growth figures, our country has set a record for growing up with 11.1 in the third quarter, despite all external economic and political interference. Despite the difficulties in the global economy, Turkey continues to perform better in export than in the World Trade Organization. In 2014, the International Appliance Assessment Service, founded entirely on TSE capital, works to increase its effectiveness in the activities of the TSE abroad. This company contributes to the increase of exports and also to the transfer of resources from abroad. The TSE, which has been involved since 1961 in its assessment of fitness, has recently been part of projects that have made our country proud in the field of examination and surveillance. As part of TSE TANAP, the 400km natural gas pipe produced in the People's Republic of China in 2015 successfully completed the examination and surveillance services independently. Dear lawmakers, as you know, energy is the most effective political and economic power of this period. As part of the protocol signed by TSE, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources Department of Renewable Energy, the certificate provides documentation of fitness and examinations of solar power plants, periodic examinations, installations and montage controls, and international activation of co-operation. Besides, the halal food industry is really a very large market that is rising rapidly in the world. Expansion of borders in the world also increases our sensitivity to this subject. Our country is active in the halal product market and is working to become a pioneer. The TSE has been issuing it since July 2011. As a result, standards are one of the most important things that the industry will take in the future to determine its future shape and level, allowing the national industry to become competitive with foreign goods. In our country, TSE examination is the only address of public institutions in the area of surveillance. The institution is the only organisation of the public and private sector to set standards and assess fitness, both technical and administrative and expert staff infrastructure, without profit management. I hereby ask that the Turkish Institute of Standards' budget of 2018 bring blessings for our state and nation, with respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0198par0245	Thank you, Mr. User. The fifth speaker is Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdogan. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0199par0250	Mr. President, I've received a speech on the Turkish Patent Agency's budget for 2018, from the institutions associated with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and I salute you all. The Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation is our organisation to conduct registration and information activities related to testing property rights in our country. Test property rights are a highly strategic issue that directly affects the country's levels of innovation and technology and, therefore, the competitive forces. We see that the international competitiveness has led the countries to take comprehensive measures for testing property rights. Turkey has shown a very different approach and vision of testing property rights during the period of EC PARTI governments in particular. Each of the patent, brand, design, and geographical markings has begun to see the value and importance that they deserve. As a matter of fact, countless policies, strategies and actions have been produced regarding property and testing rights, and they have been implemented one by one. At the point where we are today, Turkey has become one of the countries with a serious influence in all areas of testing property. I'd like to point out that Turkish businessmen are an elite brand all over the world. Any step toward promoting and strengthening this brand is precious to us. Precious lawmakers, Italy, one of the countries that has created the highest value of contributing to geographical markers in Europe, received an export profit of 7 billion euros last year. We can see from here how important it is. Today, Turkey is ranked 14th in the world's patent field, 7th in the brand area, and fourth in the design field. We are ranked 7th in the world, with these three data being evaluated together. It is also a joy that Turkey has become a country that directly affects decision-making processes from a passive country in the area of property testing its recent work. As a matter of fact, our Turkish Patent and Marka Agency began its activities as an international research and study authority with the United Nations' World Fiction Property Agency since last March. Our Supreme Assembly supported Turkey's testing property development process with its most valuable work and passed its new goals last December by enforcing the Test Property Law. These arrangements, which I've expressed a few of them, are very important. We're seeing these in the provinces as well. Our Gaziantep is undoubtedly at the beginning of the cities that are taking on this responsibility in a strong way. Gaziantep 14 leads our other cities and regions in the geographical sign area, as has been in many areas with 20 geographical markers, which are in the process of adventing seven. One of them is the Antep nuts, Antep baklava, Nizip olive oil, Gaziantep copper management, Gaziantep pederasing, Antep kentnu fabric, Antep bakrani,Antep pistaché, Pistin pistachio pistachio, Antep fire, Antep lamac, 50 more -- waiting -- our product is waiting. Yes, I believe we should take our place in the patent of the world by taking these steps of Gaziantep, and competing with one another in our other provinces. I wish our budget of 2018 to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0200par0260	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Sixth speaker, Mersin MP, Mr. Haci Özkan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0201par0264	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI group on behalf of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency (TÜBITAK) budget budget for 2018. I hereby salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly, including my citizens of Mersin, who are watching us on their screens. The rapid changes in the world's field of science and technology pose both opportunity and risk, especially for developing countries. Developments in areas such as information technologies, artificial intelligence, automation and advanced production techniques, material science, digital communication, nanotechnology and biotechnology will shape economic, social and military developments around the world. Turkey is a country that has taken too many steps to turn that process into an opportunity for itself. Increased domestic additive value in production, transitioned to the support of a higher-tech product that allows sustainable production, and stepping up the global chain of value are the most important issues facing our industrial sector. The strategies, programmes and projects that we use to increase the quality of the workforce and the capacity for innovation, transition to an information-based production structure, and increase efficiency in the economy play a key role in boosting our country's competitiveness. With our progress in industry and technology, we're going to achieve a higher competitiveness, a lower import addiction, and a production structure that can increase exports in the world markets. Under the leadership of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, we're building technology development sites to improve university-industrial cooperation, and we're running Industrial Appropriations Programs. In 2002, we raised the total RD spending of $1.8 billion to $24.6 billion in 2016. In order to improve industrial R&D culture, he implements programs such as Technologies Capital Support, Technological Product Promotion and Marketing Support, Technological Product Investment Support; we support the establishment of R&D centers. To focus science and technology on industrial production, we sign countless projects, incentive systems, support, legal regulations. We also know that our people are very closely monitoring these developments and investments. All this industry and technological investment, and my constituency, Mersin, of course, is getting his share, and he will continue to take it. It's a great advantage to adjust to the port when we look at the cities. Mersin has one of Turkey's largest ports. We're going to set up an integrated mega-industrial zone here in the harbor. The science centre and industrial museum will also be built in Mersin. As part of the Design and Innovation Center Project, we are pleased to take our Minister's word for the first centre in Mersin. Again, the commission of the planned food fellowship organised area has been signed, and we are anxious to get it out of the Council of Ministers. We're increasing the number of OSBs, clearing the way for employment. Today, by producing our national and domestic products, we gain the power to compete with the world. We know that Turkey's strong path is through a strong economy. Our founder, our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan's leadership, our nation's leader's trust, and a bond of affection, makes our dreams come true. We always have faith that our beloved nation will be a hero in the presence of our determined leader. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2018 budget to be a blessing, and I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0202par0273	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. The seventh speaker is İstanbul MP Hulusi Senturk. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0203par0278	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the Turkish Academy of Sciences has made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the 2018 budget, and I salute you all. Dear friends, as we all know, knowledge is the most important wealth of our time. Information has become the strategic input of the economy. With the development of new basic technologies, the importance of information production, information capital, qualified human factor has increased. New developments, such as communication technologies, information highways, electronic trade, move societies beyond economic, social, cultural and political industrial society. Turkey is a country with major goals, and within the framework of these goals, our country is working hard with different institutions and institutions to meet the needs of the information society, to achieve the healthy and sustainable development that scientific research has triggered. While our universities are doing scientific studies, RD activities are supported, TBITAK science projects are being prepared. All of this is aimed at the development of the industrial society of information society, the development of our ability to produce information, the transformation of it into economic and social benefits. One of the most important work that needs to be done in the creation of the information society is undoubtedly to develop our educated, qualified human power capital, to be cared for by science and scientists, to be supported and appreciated by those who act on it. This need was the main reason for the establishment of scientific academys in all world countries, and Turkey established the Turkish Academy of Sciences, whose short name was TUBA in 1993. The Turkish Academy of Sciences is continuing various activities in society to improve the value of scientific thought. In this scope, many programs, projects, projects, projects of science and support, scientific cooperation from scientific representation missions, scientific conferences, cultural projects, scientific literature, Turkish science language projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, and 52 distinguished members of the project and employees. The TÜBA has upgraded its number of awards so far, including 189 awards for scientific copyright prizes, 443 awards for young scientists, whose short name is TESEP, and 9 international academy awards. The 2017 international academy awards were awarded to Hussain Arslan, Cenk Ayata, in the field of health and life sciences, and Gabor Hamza, in the field of social and human sciences. TUBA represents our country in the world of international academys. This framework includes the membership of 12 international roof establishments and the membership of the Forum for Scientific Academys of G20 countries. However, the 33 science academys have co-operation agreements and co-operation agreements are being carried out together. The TÜBA publishes reports and books on different scientific subjects, as well as long-term publications, such as TUBA Day, TUBA Archaeological Magazine and TUBA Cultural Inventory Magazine. TÜBA performs all of its activities as an institution of scientific, administrative and financial autonomy under the decisions of the Academy Council. It saddens all of us that our country's mission to the information community has recently been placed on a very important mission, and that it has recently been linked to certain terrorist organizations in the fight against terrorism, and that 12 members who have been identified with the defection have been tried to wear off their exports. However, no matter what happens, TÜBA will continue to be the bridge of communication between the scientific world and the development of scientific activities in our country, promoting work in this field. With these feelings, I salute you all again, wishing the 2018 budget to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0204par0289	Thank you, Mr. Senturk. Mr. Akkaya, you have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0205par0291	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0204par0292	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0205par0295	Well, thank you. Mr. President, today's news channels say that the subcontractors, which millions of workers are waiting for, will be brought in accordance with the law, which is not the right approach. The winter tire is not acceptable for subcontractors to be abducted from parliament after marriage programmes and outside the control of the Constitution. If such an arrangement occurs, the Constitutional Court is as responsible as the AKP government, which is unacceptable. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0206par0298	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account The eighth speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Ali Cevheri. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0207par0351	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2018 of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, one of Turkey's major ministries. Food has become one of the most important strategic sectors today, and it will increase its importance in the future. Today there are technologically significant distances in finding alternative energy sources for oil, but there is no alternative to food and agriculture. In particular, after the 19th century, the importance of water and soil has increased, depending on the rapid development of industry, the growth of cities and the growth of populations. In the process, human beings, as a result of technological advances, have made a serious waste of their prosperity, neglecting their land, water, and green. The total land area in the world is 13 billion hectares, with 5 billion hectares of agricultural land, but about 1.5 billion hectares of it is an agricultural area. As a result of warped urbanization and industrialization in the world, agricultural areas are rapidly dwindling, and the production of food needed to survive is increasingly difficult. Today, countries that care about agriculture and control food will also direct world politics. When the world's population rose to 10 billion in 2050, agricultural production must be increased by at least 60 per cent in order to feed this population. There are still significant problems with food in 39 countries around the world, access to water in 80 countries. Although the world is in serious danger of living these problems in the future, in many countries of Africa, there are still 1.3 billion tonnes of food wasted every year in the imperial world, dominated by brutal capitalism while people starve to death. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, are conducting important projects at the point of planning, encouraging, protecting, producing, and fair sharing of agricultural production in our country. We still have 24 million hectares of agriculture in our country, 14.6 million hectares of us and over 3 million hectares of farmers today, 121 million tonnes of plant production, 23 million tons of animal production, 161 billion dollars in agricultural products, 16.3 dollars in agricultural exports. After our governments came to work, they supported the agricultural sector at every point, and given only the end of 2016, over the last 15 years, our producers received a total of 103 billion dollars in cash grants. More fuel, fertilizer, seed, and feed plant supports are continuing to grow in agricultural inputs, which are an important ally. The VAT has been reset in fertilizer and bait, and half of the warehouse is on us from Mazotta 2018. The application will take effect. Again, in 2018, our farmers will receive $14.8 billion in cash agricultural support. In addition, $4.7 billion has been earmarked for investments in the agricultural sector, financing, loan subsidies, investments and exports. Agricultural loans continue to apply interest reductions. In 2002, farmers who take loans with the Agricultural Bank interest rate of 59 per cent can now use subsidies between 0 per cent and 8.25 per cent of the current rate of interest. The amount of agricultural loans used by Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-ops in 2002 was $530m, while the amount increased by 64 times to 34 billion euros today. According to these results, among OECD producers and consumer support estimates, Turkey was the most supportive of agriculture in 2002-2016, among OECD member states. In 2002, agricultural national income increased from $36.9 billion to more than 4 times today, reaching 161.3 billion euros. Today, our country is leading Europe from 2005 to today, as it rose to number 1st place on the 4th row in Europe. In 2002-2016, the agricultural sector gave $58 billion more in foreign trade in agriculture and food products. In short, with the belief that the support for agriculture and food will support the future of our humanity, I wish our budget of 2018 would be a blessing for our country and farmers.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0208par0357	Thank you, Mr. Cevheri. The ninth speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Akyerek. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0209par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism budget in the eighth round of the 2018 Financial Budget Law Bill. On behalf of my town, Viranşehir, Ceylanpınar, and all its counties, the city of the civilizations and the cities of the prophets, where history and culture blend, I salute and salute the grand delegation. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] The world's population is growing rapidly. Food and agriculture will become more and more difficult to produce and feed, and food and agriculture will be at a much more critical and critical point than today. It's imperative that we take global measures. There are still 1.3 billion tons of food wasted every year in the world, while 800 million people are struggling with hunger. We live in a world where famine and abundance are side by side. (EC PARTY) Therefore, our efforts to increase production continue, while each of us also have a duty to avoid waste. As our land is made a home by the blood of our martyrs, so is the sweat of our farmers. In order for us to look to the future with confidence, we must appreciate the value of the land, the water, and show the proper respect. Precious lawmakers, our Sannliurfa, which is part of the GAP and has made an extraordinary contribution to our country's agriculture, plant corn on 2 million acres of cotton bread, 2 million acres of wheat bread, 1,100,000 acres of peanut bread, and 1,300 acres of corn. Here it's the warehouse of our country with 8,000 acres of pepper planting. [[From the lines of the AK PARTY, the voices, the applause.]] In recent years, watering projects that have been speeding up will kick in starting this year, saving the region's energy-dependent agricultural sector from high costs and the waste of national wealth, as well as its contribution to production and employment. Mardinn-Ceylanpınar, which is on the main channel and is about to be completed, will be watered for 660,000 acres in Viranşehir 1 and 2 put in Ceylanpınar, and will have 370,000 acres in Viranşehir, and water in 2019. As our region's investments increase in income, prosperity will increase, they will not achieve their evil goals, for thousands of years when we have lived in peace with language, religion, race, and sophistication. (Applause from CHP rows) We, as the AK PARTY and Group, will never allow it. Dear lawmakers, from the first day our governments came to work, service to the people is rightfully served. He has signed numerous services that will make the lives of our people easier with his understanding. My district, Viranşehir, has received a share of these investments and continues to receive them. In Viranşehir district of Şanlıurfa, Şanlıurfa, where I was born, where I grew up, 200 state hospitals have been activated, 1.100 TOKI dwellings, new government mansions, courthouses, police service buildings and housing, four years of health colleges, university of applied sciences, and 50 new schools will now be built. The DSI Department, the SGK service building, the Agricultural District Directorate service building... 450 businesses in the small industrial co-op will be in place within the next month or two. We've rebuilt hundreds of miles of asphalt and concrete roads to our villages, drinking water to every village, a house of condolence, so to speak, we've rebuilt Viranşehir. With the support of our latest DSI and Development Minister, we are making the Viranşehir drinking water tender with an estimated $70m euro, and the sewer tender within two or three months, with 20 million from the Bank of Provinces. On December 21, 2017, Mr. President's instructions will also be tendered for the gas coming to Viranşehir. Darısı to our other counties. Mr. President, may I have a moment?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0210par0372	Of course. Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0209par0375	I said natural gas, before April 16th, I gave this good news, but on behalf of all my fellow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım, Food, Agriculture Minister Mr Faruk Çelik and fellow minister, Mr. Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba, who has brought valuable services to Şanlıurfa, and to my district, Viranşehir, who has not given their support.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0210par0377	Thank you, Mr. Whiteheart. Mr. Havutça, you have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0211par0381	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, to our Minister of the Forest, Lake Nature Park, one of the most beautiful natural wonders in the world, has been auctioned off to a supporting firm today. Mr. Secretary, unfortunately this area, which you rented to Bolu Municipality for twenty-nine years in 2012, is closed to zoning -- regarding this municipality of Bolu, which you gave me -- has been opened. Today, this project, which was violated by the Building Law and where all the environmentalists, the naturalists, were opposed, was tendered today. Now, we've got eyes on him from here. We all know how those burning places are made of concrete in the basement of Pigeons, what the scenarios are written in Tripoli, but now it is your responsibility to protect the nature of this country, its environment.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0212par0384	Thank you, Mr. Havut. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, in the tenth place, Mr. Hüsnüye Erdogan, this is Konya MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0213par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the 2018 Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As there are examples in other countries of the world, tobacco and tobacco products, etyl alcohol, methanol and alcohol markets are run by an expert public authority in our country. For this purpose, the Law No. 4733 was established by the Organization for Tobacco and Alcohol Market. In addition to monitoring and monitoring the production processes of all manufacturers in the sector, the market and its revenues are secured by co-operation with relevant institutions and fighting illegal trade. The goal of Law 4207 and future generations of tobacco products has shown that the institution has institutional duties and responsibilities in terms of law and community health, which finds its purpose to take protective measures from incentives, advertising and incentive campaigns, and to ensure that everyone can breathe fresh air. At the same time, the institution is creating a healthy and well-functioning market structure in order to regulate, audit and monitor the sector, while the World Health Organization's Tobacco Control Framework Convention makes arrangements to protect future generations from the devastating health, social, environmental and economic consequences caused by tobacco consumption. Successful results from the regulations put into place in this framework have contributed greatly to our country's move to the top in the world of tobacco control. National and international workshops have been organised by the institution to boost awareness of tobacco and alcohol control, and public spotlights have been presented to the public. The budget estimate for 2018 is 155m euros. Some 97 per cent of revenues are from operating revenues, while 3 per cent are from other incomes. From the date it was founded, the institution transferred it to about $635m worth of treasure, including 2017. Dear lawmakers, as a physician, I would like to remind you that both tobacco and alcoholic beverages and drugs have done great harm to human and community health, creating the greatest obstacle to quality and health. Serious work is being carried out under the anti-tank program for this purpose. The seven-day-and-four-hour non-interrupted cigarette-dropting advice line in the world by private-train counselors who can be searched from landlines for free and are given drugs free of charge in our smoking clinics. On July 19, 2009, all of our country's closed areas were smoke-free and our people began to breathe comfortably. Dear lawmakers, we must each have the necessary sensitivity to combat all these harmful practices that threaten humanity, because these issues can only be avoided with high awareness and zeal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I finish my speech, I'd like to refer to our wound, our honor, Jerusalem. Sadly, persecution and occupation do not end in the Muslim geography of the Middle East. I can't applaud persecution, I can't love the tyrant. With its motto, I can't love the United States government, the United Nations decisions and...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0214par0443	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0213par0444	... Just a week after his statement disregarding international law, we held one of the largest accession meetings of the Islamic Co-operation Agency under our President's leadership in our country. On this occasion, we have revealed to the world that Jerusalem and our Palestinian brothers are not alone, and that we will not allow our unity and minds to be torn apart, just as our Palestinian lands and geography are torn apart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers wish that the budget of 2018 would be a good cause for good deeds for our future and future, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0214par0448	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The eleventh speaker is Mr. Hussein Samani, the MP of Antalya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0215par0452	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of 2018 of our Department of Forestry and Water Affairs. I salute you all. Mr. President, in the last 15 years, our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has implemented many projects in forestry, water, conservation and meteorology with an investment of 158 billion Turkish liras. With the forest headquarters' work, not only in forest areas, but throughout our country, today, as forest areas in many parts of the world decline, there is an increase in forest areas in our country. That's what this is about, both as a field and as a fortune. As a matter of fact, in 2002, we had 20.8 million hectares of forest, and we raised it to 22.3 million hectares today, so there was an increase in the forest area of about 1.5 million hectares. Likewise, forestal wealth increased by 33 per cent during this period, valuable MPs. Dear friends, we can now produce the seedlings and seeds we need in our own nursery. We have now produced up to 322 million saplings, which were 75 million in the previous years, and in some years we can even increase it to the capacity of 400-450 million saplings. We have not only increased the production of saplings, but also the species related to these saplings. The 400 species of forest sapling has now risen to 688. And the same way, we've now introduced 3 billion 820 million saplings into the soil. Dear MPs, if there's water, there's life. We're trying not to let a drop of water go to waste. We work for our nation, with 508 of whom were dams in our time of power, 513 of which were HES, 327 put into the service of our nation by completing a total of 7,471 river reforms, 193 drinking water facilities, including 1,171 irrigation facilities. From 1954 to 2011, just 461 ponds were built in fifty-seven years, and we are now able to water 75.6 percent of the waterable land in our country today by finishing the watering projects, which we launched in 2012. Again, my dear friends, we have not forgotten Cyprus, the young country, which is a national case. We have poured the spring water of the Toros under the sea of 107km deep into Cyprus, described as the project of the lion. So we think that the famous word in history must be changed, that water flows, that Turkey does. We have to fix it now. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Not only that, we haven't forgotten our geography of hearts. We provided drinking water for 1,750,000 people in all our heart geography and especially Africa. Our goal is to deliver drinking water to 3 million people in 2019. Dear friends, today the President of Djibouti hailed our Veteran Assembly. Before I tell you about an investment in Djibouti, our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, I want to tell you an anecdote about it. Djibouti goes to a village while our former Ambassador is there, to the countryside, where he attends a henna night. You know, we've got the henna on the henna night, and they sing a tune there, and it's like, "Bring the henna on the henna," and it's like, "Istanbul." Our ambassador asks: "There is a mention of Istanbul. What do you say? We, in the Ottoman era, had made Ottomans commercial capital for centuries, not forgotten Ottomans. As a token of our forgetting him, when we send our daughters away from the house of their parents today, we say to them: "Be a saint like Istanbul, and light up around you like the Tower of Girls. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, it's not for nothing, my dear brothers. Of course, from the moment the EC PARTY was established, the support of our nation, the leadership of our President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0216par0464	Yes, of course, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0215par0465	...Mr. Veysel, with our teacher's sincerity and zeal, all these jobs are successful, and we are grateful for them. Of course, by the way, our Ministry of Forest and Water in Antalya made some very important investments, 3 billion 510 million investments, 18 dams, dozens of ponds, meteorological observatorys...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0217par0467	Three billion won't make 18 dams.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0215par0468	18 dams; come on, we'll show you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0217par0469	It's just a pond, a pond, or a irrigation canal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0215par0470	He built 18 dams, many irrigation facilities, many meteorological observatorys, and we are grateful for that. I hereby wish the 2018 budget to be good for our country and for the people of our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0218par0473	Thank you, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0219par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0218par0475	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0219par0476	Mr. President, I want word on 60. I'd like to make a statement about the marathon massacre.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0218par0477	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0219par0480	Mr. President, from December 19 to December 26, 1978, there was a great massacre in Kahramanmarash. The mother and her baby, who were slaughtered with her cub, were cut out and thrown into the toilet pit, 80 - year - old grandmothers and many others are memorable of this massacre. In the years that passed, not one of their perpetrators was punished, not even the memory of those who lost their loved ones in the massacre is still allowed in Marash, and some of them are not even disclosed as if their graves were secrets. These people, who are not even allowed to mourn where they are suffering, continue to bleed their hearts out. As a man of the land that has suffered, he honors all the souls that have been slain in Marash, and if we forget, our hearts will perish. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0218par0482	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, in the 12th place, Mr. Abdullah Ozturk, Kırıkkale MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0220par0535	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation who are watching us on their screens. Yeah, it's been 15 years since the November 3, 2002 elections. Despite all obstacles, we have the privilege of having the permission of our Great Creator, who has upset political literature, which has brought great investments and regulations into our political history, and then, with the support and prayers of our beloved nation, we have the privilege of arming both our borders and every prayer in our heart geography. I believe we have earned the heart of our nation and the pleasure of our Lord. In the first ten years of this 15-year period, as in countries whose economy is open to the world, I want to talk about the policy of courtship that directly concerns all of our social, economic lives. We were able to bring the economy in balance with a right and just policy without compromise from budget discipline. In December 2002, when the EC PARTY government was employed, the US dollar was 55%, and in December 2012, exactly ten years later, the court was able to gain 1.77 percent of the value in December 2012. On this occasion, both interest and inflation have been reduced to single digits many years later. In 2002, 86% of tax revenues went to interest, while interest costs were reduced to 14 per cent today. Our resources to the interest lobby have now been spent on building hospitals, highways, tunnels, bridges, universities, airports, and many other services for the use of our nation, as well as an opportunity to introduce the real sense of social government to our nation. Until 2013, in the last five years of our rule, those who were uncomfortable with Turkey's achievements were nothing more than the cease and desist of MIT trucks, the call of the Undersecretary of the MIT to testify, the plot of December 17-25, and the July 15 treacherous coup attempt to be thrown between our country's dark vortexes and the helpless countries of the Middle East. It was an effort to create a chaotic environment by having a negative impact on our society. These attacks were to refer to the welfare and well-being of 80 million of our citizens, as well as efforts to remove the EC PARTY from power by illegal means. (EC PARTY Applause) It was a situation that provided the basis for their anxiety about the future. Those who were happy about it were the only global forces that were uncomfortable with the development of Turkey who wanted to use the world for their own purposes. What they didn't know was that there was a nation that shielded the helicopter, the tank, the ball, the bullet, a people who didn't want to live under humiliation, and there was a leader in this nation. Under the leadership of our President, Turkey returned from the rank bridge. They couldn't bring Turkey to its knees, but they won't stop. They want to rematch the so-called (...)x). They were lowering our credit rating, trying to break our resistance with their courtship increases, but what they didn't know was that Turkey wasn't the old Turkey. We've already laid down the strong foundations of Turkey, where global forces can't account for our country as they used to. In this case, those who do not want the Middle East to be at peace, our first giblah, the prophet's bow, the witness of our mirac, Jerusalem, who is the capital of the occupied Israeli capital, rub their hands in the fire circle, and seek to reach their goals by supporting terror and terrorist invaders. The Islamic countries led by Turkey must, together, reasonably, resist Jews and Zionists in solidarity. With the determination of our President, I hope they won't achieve their goals. Jerusalem will continue to be the capital of Palestine. May the Lord help us. I hereby ask that the 2018 budget bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and to all the oppressed in our hearts.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0221par0543	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Thirteenth speaker, Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0222par0548	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Director-General of the Forest, where I have served for a hundred and seventy-eight years and that I have been a member for thirty years. I hereby salute our beloved nation and our Veterans Assembly. Dear MPs, the mission of the Director General of the Forest is to protect forest and forest resources from all dangers, develop them with a close understanding of nature, to govern in ecosystem integrity and in providing sustainable benefits to society. Dear MPs, as you know, the forests are the common value of all humanity and the common heritage that we leave to our grandchildren. As the world's forest presence is dwindling, our country's forests have increased both its field and its tree fortune. According to 2002 figures, our 20.8 million hectares of forest have reached 22.3 million hectares in 2017, so 1,500,000 hectares have been carried out in the last 15 years. Our goal in 2023 is to reach 30 per cent of the country's territory, 23.3 million hectares. Our tree fortune reached 1.6 billion cubic metres in 2002 and reached 1.6 billion cubic metres in 2017. From 2003 to today, four billion saplings have been met with wooding and rehabilitation in 4.9 million hectares. Our new forestry organization, which operates in isolated forest areas, has been planted in 2008 by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with open areas, roadsides, schools, hospitals, clinics, and graveyards. Mr. President, we are making our forests a locomotive of rural development with 38 action plans, such as the Almond Action Plan, the Chest Action Plan, the Wild Olive Recovery Action Plan, to feed our forest village where it was born, to prevent migrations, and to contribute to the country's economy of non-woods forest products. So far, thanks to our support for beekeeping and honey production, our country has risen to the second rank in the world in the 6th row of honey production. We've built 365 honey forests by now. In particular, our Minister is the patron saint of bees and beekeepers, and I thank him very much on behalf of the beekeepers here. During the 2015-2019, 5,000 Villages were produced as part of the 5,000 Forest Project. So far, 2,863 villages have had 6,400,000 income-producing plants planted. Let the people live so the state can live. For the past 15 years, we have provided our forest peasant with direct support and forestry activities for $14.5 billion. Thirty-three thousand families were given $610 million in dairy cattle and $2242 million in dairy support for 10,500 families. In addition, animalism is greatly supported by the rehabilitation of corrupt areas and the plan to graze 10 million hectares of our forests. In ancient times, you have a crime. It's called a crime. But it can now be grazed in all the forests, where there's no curfew. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs now have the deed to our forests. Since 2005, 99 per cent of the forest cadastro was completed as of the end of 2017 with the work of the cadastro and the tapu cadastro. And by the end of 2019, the deed to the forest will be registered. Besides, we've solved the two-by-b problem that's become gangrene through the legal arrangement we've made. By solving property problems, we'll be kin, not rivals to our jungle peasant. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as for the forest headquarters' efforts to combat forest fires, we can detect fire within 15 seconds and intercept from air and land in 15 minutes, thanks to the training, the development of infrastructure and technology-enhanced systems. With this early and effective struggle, we became the leading country in our region. According to Turkey, 18 forests were burned in Greece, 14 in Italy, and 8 times more in Spain. At the International Forestry Training Centre in Antalya, experts from sensitive countries are trained in fire. We also support large fires in many countries with our teams in case they need them. As for our burning forest areas, not one square metre is used for other purposes, and these areas are treesed within the year.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0223par0558	Go ahead and complete it, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0222par0559	Thank you. I thank the towerer, the fire worker, his operator, his pilot, his officer, his engineer, all his employees, the 114 brothers who have been martyrs in the fight against the fire so far, and all our martyrs, I ask for God's mercy. Again, of course, our interim workers who have been watching us will be assigned to the staff of 8,500 workers who are left with the work in the coming days, hopefully as well as to permanent labor, just as more than 13,000 of our employees came to us in 2007. As a forest engineer and ranger MP, I thank and thank all my friends for their hard work. I wish the 2018 budget to be good for our nation and our country, and my greetings and respects.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0224par0565	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Altay, you have a request.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0225par0567	Mr. President, today there is a statement and a threat from Greek Defence Minister Panos Kammenos, to a speech made by our president in Parliament on December 11th. If you'll excuse us, we'd like to report it to the General Assembly for two minutes and share our position on the matter, if possible.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0224par0568	Of course. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0225par0572	Thank you, Mr. President. Greek Defence Minister Panos Kammenos referred to a speech by our president in Parliament on December 11th and said: "The main opposition leader said that 18 islands were occupied by Greece again. At best, he doesn't know the provisions of international law and agreements. In the worst case, Greece doubts the sovereignty, demanding our lands." And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Now it's his job, we don't know that. But we, the Greek Defence Minister, will go as they came when the Great Ataturk told him in the occupation of Istanbul. We declare that the Greeks will leave those islands from here. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] But our regret is that Greece's courage, this courage, this lack of courage, this lack of courage, the ownership of controversial islands and islands that were not registered to Greece in any international agreement, the collapse of the islands in 1913 Athens, in violation of the 1923 Lauzan agreements, is a result of the lack of courage of the AK PARTI governments; I want to underline that. Now, for all of us, it's time for the entire House to prove its native and nationality. We call upon the government: No longer can they watch Greece's invasion of 18 islands and islands, especially the islands of Bullamaç, Donkey and Sheep. We expect our national Defence Minister to give the Greek Defence Minister the answer he deserves, and then we stand by the government as the Republican People's Party for these islands -- we stand by him under our noses -- in a manner worthy of the Turkish nation's reputation for invading Greece with no agreement.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0226par0578	Well, thank you, Mr. Altay. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, in 14th place on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Jahan Pektaş. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0227par0631	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of 2018 of the State Department of Water Affairs. I salute you. State Water Affairs is one of the country's most radical and largest investors. It is our organization responsible for protecting, developing and operating water resources. It serves in energy, agriculture, services and industry sectors. The DSI is more known as a dam-making institution. Rainfalls in our country differ from seasons and regions. It is imperative that the rainy season waters be stored for use in the dry season. For this purpose, 276 dams such as Ataturk, Keban, and Karakaya were built. In the past 15 years, 508 dams have been built, particularly China's Adnan Menderes, Ermenek, and an engineering marvel, Deeper dams. As of today, the number of our dams is 784. Apart from the dams, a thousand ponds were built as part of the Lake-water Project. Another 1,071 pond is to be completed by the end of 2019. The total storage capacity of our dams and ponds is 166 billion cubic metres, and this is an enormous capacity. The dams built are considered to be very purposeful, as well as the production of hydroelectric energy, including agricultural irrigation, the supply of our cities' drinking and using water and flood prevention. According to the meteorological data, the dryest year of the last forty-four years has been 2017. Our citizens didn't feel this drought because of dams and ponds built. The economic potential of our streams of hydroelectric production is 180 billion kilowatts per year. Until fifteen years ago, this potential was evaluated by 26 billion kilowatts, while production capacity was increased to 95 billion kilowatts, with the construction-processing model and the private sector activated. Dear lawmakers, one of the four chandeliers burned in those General Assembly halls is lit by the energy produced by the DSI. The projects of the DSI are projects that start to profit from five to ten years, which serve as a locomotive in the development of our country. The Keban Dam, which opened for business in 1974, produced $65 billion in energy in forty-three years. The Ilisu Dam, which will start to flood next year, will produce 4 billion 120 million kilowatts of energy per year. In 2019, the Josephli Dam, which will be the third highest dam in the world at the height of 270m, will produce 1 billion 888 million kilowatts of energy per year. The annual contribution of the two dams to the economy would be $1 billion,850 million. In the past, dams used to be done by projects, consultants and contractors entirely by foreign companies; their financing was provided with foreign loans and the bill for projects was very high, but times changed. Today, all projects of the DSI are being made by local project consultants and contractors at much more appropriate prices with the national budget. And from our dams, our land is watered. About 11 per cent of our country's facial measurement, or 85 million per cent, is economically irrigable farmland. Twenty-eight million dollars of watered land before our power has been added to 37.3 million per cent and raised to 65 million and 300,000 per cent today. In recent years, watering projects have been built with piped and pressurized systems. Using rain and drip systems, water is saved up to 35 per cent. When you move from dry agriculture to watery agriculture, you can get at least four times as many products in fertile plains as 13 times more. For reasons such as global warming, climate change and desertification, in 2035, food production is estimated to be 12 per cent less than today's production, and the population is estimated to be 1 billion more. Hence, access to food will become difficult and food prices will rise. To ensure our food supply safety, it is vital that all of our watered-down land be brought to watery agriculture. The need for drinking and using water for our cities, especially Istanbul and İzmir, has been resolved in the long term. 42 million citizens have been provided with world standards, advanced technology, quality additional drinking water. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0228par0644	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0227par0645	The project is the first in the world to bring water to Cyprus under the sea, by way of the pipe, by way of technique and size, and is the proud project of our country. I would like to thank our Minister, Mr. Veysel Eroglu and his team, the DSI staff, who have already successfully run the 3,683 project. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of the year 2018 to be blessed and fruitful to our country and to our nation, and I salute you again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0229par0649	Thank you, Mr. Pekstone. 15th speaker, Mersin MP Ali Cumhur Taşkın. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0230par0654	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our meteorological General Directorate for 2018. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. As I begin my words, I'd like to refer to Jerusalem, the first of the Muslims' qiblah, the third of the sacred mosques, the bleeding wound of mankind. Jerusalem is the second mosque of the earth, the gateway to our beloved prophet. Jerusalem is an integral part of our history, the red line of all Muslims. At the same time, Jerusalem is a common value not only for Muslims but also for all divine religions. From this point of view, Jerusalem is the common value of mankind. The Palestinian case is not only the Palestinians, but the common cause of all Muslims around the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since the day it was founded, Israel, which has committed state terror against Palestinian Muslims, must immediately end unjust and unlawful practices. Those who believe that our President owns Jerusalem today will not even find a tree to hide behind him tomorrow. I want to remind you again that we are with all the oppressed, especially our Palestinian brothers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the importance of meteorological data, products and services is increasing every day in order to sustain our daily life in a more comfortable, safer, and healthier way in the modern world. Today, many sectors, especially transportation, agriculture, forest, energy, national defence, environment, tourism, health, urbanism, sports and disaster management, are taking advantage of meteorological data directly or indirectly. Using 18 meteorological radars across the country to make observations that are the basis of meteorological products and services, the General Directorate of Meteorology is able to create 1,840 monitoring systems of different types and properties to allow it to achieve great success both in momentary analysis and meteorological forecast. The General Directorate of Meteorology provides public services with high equipment and human capacity for 81 counties and 969 districts, hourly, daily, five days, weekly and monthly forecasts. With consistent forecasts and warnings ahead of meteorological disasters such as floods, storms, snowfalls and agricultural frosts in 2017, these disasters have had a great part in reducing their losses. The transport sector, which includes land, air and sea transport, is the head of the services of the meteorological General Directorate. The meteorological data is crucial in terms of safe and comfortable travel through land, air and sea transport. The National Directorate of Meteorology website allows citizens to learn the air and road information and take the necessary measures with the easy-to-reach land route forecasting system. In addition, there are 24 hours of service at 73 airports, with the aim of providing meteorological products and services, the most basic factor of the aviation sector and secure air travel. The marine route predicting system contributes to the safety of sea transport. Agriculture is one of the major sectors where the General Directorate of Meteorology provides services. The meteorological General Directorate, which is in the service of our farmers at every stage of agricultural production, supports our producers with crop forecasting reports, harvest-time forecasts, and agricultural don estimates designed to ensure that their products are unharmed. One of the most important shareholders in the fight against forest fires that threaten our country's forest existence and the balance of natural life is the General Directorate of Meteorology. By developing co-operation with the Forest General Directorate, the implementation of the Forest Fires and Meteorology Early Warning System, which determines areas at risk of forest fire, the areas that are at risk of forest fire are determined, and the necessary measures can be taken in advance by alerting relevant institutions and organisations. Congratulating all employees of our meteorological General Directorate for their successful work, I wish you all the best in our meteorological General Directorate of 2018, our Ministry and our country.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0231par0665	Thank you, Mr. Excessive. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 16th and final speaker is Mr. Halil Eldemir. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0232par0670	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTI Group over the Turkish Water Institute section of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. In 2009, our country hosted an important international organization. This organization is the 5th World Water Forum, which is held with more than 30,000 participants from 192 countries. Following this successful organisation, the Turkish Water Institute was established in 2011 under the roof of our Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, under the rule of Law 658, in order to implement its scientific experience and vision on water. I want to thank our Minister, Professor Veysel Eroglu Bey, who came up with the idea of predicting the need for such an important institution. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the past, our country has remained only observer status in water-field meetings, while it has now become the country of authority, which actively participates in international meetings. In our globalized world, water policies also exceed borders. It is not possible to ignore the world's developments. Turkey has become the leader of water in its region, with its mega-projects in the water area, thanks to its growing manpower and vast accumulation of knowledge. Turkey's Water Institute closely monitors work on water in our country and in the world with an expert staff from different disciplines, contributing to strategic planning on water issues, modeling studies and future scenarios, consulting decision-makers. SUEN has been a respected institution in our country and the world's water sector, with its scientific work since its establishment, its analysis of national, regional and global water policies and many of the issues that have emerged in the water sector and its activities abroad. It also provides technical counseling support for water and sewage management throughout our country. With a modest budget of $4,68,000, the SUEN thanks our president and his employees for their earlier efforts, and I wish them success in their future work. Mr. President, in a few sentences, I'd like to talk about the new and ongoing investments in my constituency region of Bilecik, which are in the budget. In recent years, investments in education have provided more than 700 new classrooms for our Bilecik. With the construction of a new secondary school in Bozük district in 2018, students in the first and middle district will be fully single-educated. With the way of Bilecik-Newtown, which is under construction, we'll be able to reach all of our neighboring provinces in a double way. We can go to Ankara on the fast train, Istanbul, Iconya, and the construction of the Bursa-Billy line will continue, and in the coming years, we will have reached Bursa on the fast train. The lake market-Newmarket road will be completed in 2018. The project is also scheduled to be held in 2018, as well as the tender for our completed Change and Willow land route. The construction of our corrupt logistics center will continue. We'll have the Bilekık Closed Gym completed and construction of our Disrupted Closed Gym and our Marketing Youth Center. Construction of the 250-bed Bilecik State Hospital in progress will begin construction of our 250-bed Grizzly State Hospital. We've completed seven dam constructions in the past years. Currently, we have a total of 10 dams, including central Bayırköy, central Elmabahçe, Gölpazarı Demirhansı, Suğut Samri, Inhisar Samri, Inhisar Tarpakpınar, Osmaneli Coolpınar, Marketyri Dereköy, Süğüt Prosecutor's Office, Yenipazar Upperchay Dams. The 7 dams -- the Bozükük Dam, the central Ayvacık Dam, the Lakepazari Cube Dam, the Osmaneli Cry Dam, the Osmaneli Göynük Dam and the Market -- continue to plan our seven dams. In addition, dam-building sites are also built with closed irrigation systems. Of course, there's no way to take turns all the investments here because of the time shortage. I thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, our ministers and all of our public officials, who have shown their support in the implementation of all these projects. In 2018, the central administration wishes our budget to improve, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0233par0683	Thank you, Mr. Eldemir. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, you have a statement to make.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0234par0685	A few of the speakers just said -- I say a few -- according to the calculations of the OECD, Turkey seems to be very supportive of agriculture, and I'd like to make a statement about it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0233par0686	Here, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0234par0689	Thank you, Mr. President. Almost every AKP-led speaker who stood on the stand said Turkey supports agriculture among OECD countries. That's right, according to the calculations of the OECD, Turkey seems to support agriculture very much. Because OECD considers market prices. For example, we have one kilogram of meat at 50 liras, but right next to us, Georgia is 10 liras, Bulgaria is 15 liras. He thinks he's selling at $50, so he thinks he's got a lot of money in his pocket, and he thinks he's got a lot of support for agriculture, OECD. It's not really like that, it's the money the manufacturer has left. When we look at this, it turns out we're already subsidizing agriculture. And the OECD considers their protection rates. For example, we also have 225 per cent customs tax in meat, but governments think it's too much to protect because they pull it from time to time to zero, so we're told that Turkish agriculture is very supported, which is the exact contrast, the opposite.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0233par0691	Well, thank you, Mr. Gaytancioğlu. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, now on behalf of individuals, Elazığ MP Tahir Özturk. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0235par0744	Mr. President, I have made a commitment in the eighth section of the government's budget for 2018 to speak in favour of Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım's EC PARTY. I salute the Veteran Assembly. By the way, I also want to express my condolences to the deceased for the death of the son of former Prime Minister and ANAP President Mesut Yilmaz. I'd like to address the activities of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has invested 150 billion TL in 15 years, and the forest service has become a service not only in forest areas, but throughout our country. Our country is one of the few countries in the world that increase forest areas as the forest is scarce. In 15 years, our forest area has increased by 1.5 million hectares. We're making our own saplings for the forests now. With the formation of beekeeper forests, Turkey has risen to number 2 in the world's production of honey. The 5,000 Earning Forest Project to 5,000 Villages has been a success in our villages. The number of natural assets and national parks has been increased. To protect the water supply, plans to protect the basin are complete. Great achievements have been achieved in irrigation projects. The construction of the Uluova Watering Project is under way in Elazig Province. The energy of the project will be provided with GES. In addition, part of the Kuzova Watering Project will be opened in the spring of 2018. Six dams have come to run in our province. There are irrigation facilities connected to the dams. In addition, there are nine dams, eight irrigation facilities that continue construction in our province. I congratulate Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu and his ministry employees for their work. I also want to talk a little bit about the activities of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. We know that every penny in the Ministry's budget is spent developing our country's science, industry, technology because the future is in science and technology. KOSGEB, the best-friend of the SME, which makes up 98 per cent of our businesses, is working hard to bring new entrepreneurs into the economy, while providing support and programs to small and medium enterprises in Anatolia at the same time. The Ministry has brought a system called the Introduction Information System. With this system, which we call ▪3Y (former, innovative, and green), the production continues. In the long-term vision of the Turkish industry, studies in biotechnology, public-university-industrial cooperation, nanotechnology, automotive, software and machine strategies continue without slowing down. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has announced Turkey's domestic car-producing careers at a joint initiative meeting. Hopefully, in 2023, our car will be on the road. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, industrial sites, organised industrial areas, industrial areas are one of the most important elements of the physical development of industry and planned industrialization. In many parts of the country, the number of industrial regions and OSBs is encouraged to increase. The first stage of Elazig OSB is completed, and the second part of infrastructure has been presented to the investor's service. In addition, the second OSB (OSB) placement selection in our province has been completed in order to meet the investor's demands. The Elazig Chamber of Commerce and Industry has signed protocols with the State Special Administration, Elazig Municipality Ministry, and has reached the final stage of work for the energy zone work and GES investment. Finally, the General Directorate of EU and Foreign Relations signed an ISGAM contract with the Ministry. I sincerely congratulate our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Faruk Özlü, and the Ministry's employees for their work. I also want to thank our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Ashraf Fakibaba and his team for their successful work -- even if only for a brief period of time. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as you know, the EC PARTY governments have been in power for fifteen years, and we're negotiating the 16th budget. No Turkish political party has had 15 years of uninterrupted power in its political life; it has been granted to the EC PARTI, which the people's man, our President and President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, founded and worked for. He's always been the first party in 11 elections. With the power he received from the people, he set out in the service of the people, in the service of Hakkk. World leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan gained the trust of our people because he stood up for his promise, first for political stability, then for economic stability; in the development of the country; in energy, industry, agriculture, transportation, health projects. From the success of our leader and AK PARTY, opposition parties must learn a lesson, especially the CHP itself. But the CHP is in the mood to wait in opposition. It is not possible for them to come out of this waiting mode with behavior and attitudes that contradict our people. The CHP has not been in power alone for sixty-seven years, and at this rate it is not possible for it to be alone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] People don't have power on their own because they don't trust the CHP leader, and then they don't trust the party.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0236par0758	Mr. Ozturk, are you finishing or...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0235par0759	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0236par0760	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0235par0761	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with this sentiment and thought, I wish that the 2018 budget would be a blessing, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit04spe0236par0763	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0236par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's move on to the talks on behalf of the government. The first speaker is Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Mr. Faruk Özlü. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 27 minutes. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Ministry in negotiations on my ministry's budget. I have listened carefully to the talks that have been made so far, and I thank my dear fellow lawmakers who have contributed positively to the talks. On the other hand, I'd like to answer to my friends who are doing reviews. Congressmans, really, if all of this were true, Turkey would have to shrink, but Turkey is growing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0237par0013	Manufacturing? Look, Turkey is growing three quarters this year; we grew up in the first quarter, we grew up in the second quarter, we grew up in the third... Okay, I'll take it. The average of three quarters has grown by 7.3. Now, here it is again, 9.4 percent growth in the manufacturing industry. Look, Turkey is usually growing and our industry is growing. Don't use it for capacities. Again, we set a world record for Turkey's growth in the last quarter, for example, in the third quarter, and this average growth is 11.5%; industrial growth is 15.8%. So there's a growing Turkey, a growing industry. In that respect, I don't think there's much to worry about. Mr. Secretary, we've been growing up for 15 years, as you say, but we're not getting any payback. On the other hand, a member of parliament mentioned the number of companies that closed between January and November and said that 12.537 companies were closed -- between January and November. Look, it's not just closing companies, it's opening companies. The number of companies opened in the same period is 67,785. So the number of companies that open between January and November is 67,785, the number of companies that close is 12,537, or 5.4 times more, so one company closes, more than five. Again, the same number, when we look at the industry, when we look at the manufacturing industry, the number of companies that close between January and November -- I'm telling you for the industry -- is 1,606, the number of companies that open is 9.316, and that's 5.8 times that. I mean, if it's as they say, there's got to be more companies closing in Turkey than opening, but the numbers don't say that. We learned from you, you're just saying exports. A friend of ours said in my presentation at the Plan and Budget Commission: I asked questions, I didn't get an answer. Look, dear friends, it's not true. In the Plan and Budget Commission, 19 of our friends made a commitment and asked questions. We responded to all of these friends on 30/10/2017, sent them to their private address and sent them to Parliament. I think Kazim said, "I asked a question, I didn't get an answer." Look, there's a document here, and I think his advisor or secretary was handed over to Okay Bersoy. So that's not true either. Now, my dear friends, another matter is about KOSGEB. Some friends of ours said about KOSGEB. They said: "There is a report of the count, and the Court has given a report. The loans in KOSGEB are given to supporters, and there is a report from the Court because they are not properly given these loans. Look, I'm reading the question: whether or not there's been an investigation into those responsible for the claim that life-threatening loans were distributed to supporters and not given to those in real need. Look, my dear friends, I'm reading the Court report, page 52, paragraph one, the Court report says that the selection of 15,000 businesses, which have earned the right to borrow from a total of 244,980 businesses approved for loan support, has also been concluded that no business has been privileged to provide criteria -- which are considered in the IT environment -- so in the computer environment -- which has not been established, see, without the criteria -- has not been approved -- has been granted to provide -- and this election process has been successful to provide an example. Look, our friends have not read the report. I read to you the text expressed in paragraph 1 on page 52 of the report. Look, we've done this twice. First, last year, in December 2016, we called a call for the SMEs. There were 244,000 applications here, and we had about 15,000 SME loans used. This loan that we used -- I'm telling you for last year -- is $640 million. Again, in a similar way, in 2017, this year's January and February, we were called again because there were many applications, and there were about 540,000 applications. When we added the applications from 2016, 770,000 applications were in total, and 460,000 of those 770,000 were eligible for loans. From this 460,000 SME, we have given about 274,000 SMEs 6.7 billion loans. All of these loans were given in a computer environment, never and never a favor to the floor, and are fixed with the Court reports that this is not happening. Now, again, another friend of ours said that KOSGEB had a ten - circle staff, 12 appointments. Now, dear friends, would that be possible to appoint a non-existent staff? I'm saying today's number: today there are 12 office heads in KOSGEB, and nine apartment heads are full, three are empty. In that respect, let me share this with you here. Another member of parliament, our Edirne MP, said: "These KOSGEB loans are always being taken advantage of, we can't take advantage of them, we can't take advantage of Edirne. I want to know who's using these loans. Look, I'm telling you about the province of Edirne: 82 businesses in 2016, 82 SMEs were given a total loan of $4,68000. In the province of Edirne, again, in 2017 -- by July of this year -- 2,038 businesses were given a total of 47 million and 883 thousand lira loans. Thus, as in all provinces, Edirne used loans from KOSGEB loans, with the same criteria as the criteria across all Turkey. These loans are never used for favoring the floor and the floor. There's nothing wrong with these loans. I suggest that our friends read the Court reports more carefully, read the full report. Another friend of ours said there were academics suspended from duty. Friends, look, these friends of ours have been dismissed because they were involved in terrorism, not because they did science. Again, these friends of ours...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0238par0032	What the hell?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0239par0033	Is there a court order, Mr. Secretary? Is there a forensic or administrative investigation? Look, there's no court order, there's a state of emergency. Let me put it this way. And how do you detect it?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0240par0036	For all of them? Secondly, our same friend said that Turkey's 50-year-old dream of automobiles was not owned. To be honest, I'm having a hard time understanding that. My dear friends, I will answer our other questions one by one, as before in the Commission, and I have received their notes. In that respect, I hope there's no cause for concern. Dear lawmakers, the world is going through a historic process. The regional and global cards are being re-stuffed. New political positions are being taken. Global forces are trying to determine the direction of this change as all this goes on. We're going through a new process of revolution that's taking over the entire world, and it's clear that it's going to be much more inclusive in the future. This revolution is the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This revolution is also the Smart Society 5.0 Revolution, which will affect all non-industrial areas. In fact, the political process, where the 4th Industrial Revolution and the global cards are redistributed, looks like different processes, but one is the cause and consequence of the other. The countries that cannot capture the 4th Industrial Revolution will not be able to have a say in this new distribution of power. Dear MPs, I'm afraid we've always followed behind the previous industrial revolutions. While the world was shaped by these revolutions, we lost time closing the distance, but not this time. Turkey is now out of the world's waiting room. Turkey will not be in the audience this time. While Smart Society 5.0 transforms not only industrial logic but also society, Turkey will not sit and wait. We're going to be the main actors in this transformation. It's not going to be the country that pursues change, it's going to be the country that determines change, we're going to put Turkey in its rightful place. As a ministry, we have focused on three basic principles and goals: one is to make Turkey a scientific centre. The second is to make Turkey a state of technology. Third, advanced industry is Turkey's target. These goals will raise us to a country that has adapted to the 4th Industrial Revolution in all its forms, producing according to the needs of the age, growing, having a say. Congressmans, you know, we've passed a production reform package this year. With this Production Reform Package, we aim to develop industry and support production, aim to improve the investment environment, and, again, this year, we have also removed the Patent Law. The Production Reform Package is one of the biggest steps towards Turkey's industrialisation. We've opened the way for the Turkish industrialist in a wide range from production reform package to industrial sites to organised industrial areas, from institutional improvements to digital transformation, from access to financing to KOSGEB support, from product safety to support by their RD. As we increased our resources for RD activities, we enabled our support in this area through our incentives. We have implemented the Credit Guarantee Fund and COSGEB supports to ensure that our businesses have access to the loan. In order to develop entrepreneurial initiative, we supported innovative SMEs. Thanks to these and similar reforms, we have enabled the growth of high-income sectors and the development of competitive market environments. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some figures that show the importance of our government and our ministry to organised industrial areas. As of today, our OSB number, which has been registered by our Ministry, has reached 308. Look, before us, we had two OSBs a year, an average of 8 OSBs a year between 2003 and 17 years. At 11.395, we have been able to produce 50,437 parcels in the last 15 years and are still expected to receive up to 13,000 parcels today. Look, with the completion of empty parcels in the OSB, we will provide work for about 2.5 million of our people. Again, we want to build 65 OSBs by 2023 and create an additional 1 million jobs in these OSBs. Again, look, as part of the Production Reform Package, we're going to implement two special industrial areas projects that have been launched into our Ministry as soon as possible. We believe that the application of the mega-industrial zone will contribute substantially to Turkey's rapid growth and speed up the technological transformation process. Dear lawmakers, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the 4th Industrial Revolution will change all the rules, leaving the busy production of labor to dense, dense production of information, technology. From now on, the classic factory type will be just a classic Greenstarch classic, nostalgia. The actors of the new era will be designers, innovators, RDPs, self-renewable entrepreneurs and scientists. With this real movement, we accept the development of RD, innovation and qualified manpower as essential to our industry. For this, we are rapidly increasing the number and quality of our RD and design centers. As of today, we have reached 894 RD and design centers in our country, including 758 private RD centers, 136 design centers. Look, just this year, we've opened 426 RD, 130 design centers between January and November. In 2008, we only had 20 RD centers. Two years ago, we only had 232 RD centers. Dear lawmakers, we'll get our RD center to 1,000 as soon as possible. Again, 44,303 people work today while only 10,000 people work at our RD centers in 2010. 24,000 projects have been completed or continued in our RD centers. Dear lawmakers, one of our priorities is to transform our country's industrial structure into a high-tech production structure. Turkey's production of high-density products is a priority for our government and the Ministry. We aim to increase the export of high-tech products to 8 percent before 4 per cent, then 15 per cent.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0241par0049	He ran away in 2002, Mr. Secretary, how many now? INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI LOOKS LESS THAN 4 percent. In 2002? No, no, today. In 2002? Look, you're making a mistake here. High-tech... Look, let me answer that in QA. Yes, Mr. Secretary. INTERVIEW, INTERVIEW, INTERVIEWING AR-GE and innovation activities to add value and thus creating an ecosystem based on innovation in the context of high technology is one of our main goals. Today, there are 69 techno parks in our country that are active in 55. The Council of Ministers' decision on the three new regions is in the signing phase. Dear lawmakers, the number of companies operating in these areas is 4,594, and the number of qualified personnel employed has been 44,995. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as you know, on November 2nd, with the signing ceremony of our President, we have launched our project of Turkey's automobile. This project is a project where the dream of our nation for half a century becomes reality. A domestic car is a project in our country where more than 700,000 cars are sold annually -- the number is 1 million this year -- that we have to do absolutely well. With the project, we aim to produce preferable competitive vehicles in both domestic and world markets, to capture modern technology in automotive, and to develop our local supply industry, which will also produce parts of these vehicles, to be a powerful player in this field. This project, which will be a turning point for Turkish industry and technology, will be a technology platform that will carry us to the technology of the future, and will serve as a leverage for our industry. Dear lawmakers, during the AK PARTY administrations, we've always made national and domestic emphasis. This emphasis, the national stance, is not just a slogan, an empty expression. Our national position is not only expressed by our political stance but also by our technology, industry, investment and production policies. We've launched a domestic production campaign against imports. With a thousand products of our thousands of COBI projects, we match the thousand products that we can produce in Turkey, but the thousand products that we import are completely local, and we start producing them in Turkey. Again, with our COSGEB Strategic Product Development Support Programme, we have moved to produce the strategicly imported products at home. Dear lawmakers, we are taking important steps to improve the efficiency of our businesses while trying to enforcing our SMEs with high-tech technology in one direction towards R&D and innovation. In this sense, we implemented model factory practice by signing a principle in Turkey. Model factories have been implemented to develop and transform our industrial enterprises, especially by doing the technical capacities of industrial enterprises, in the field of efficiency by the COBI. We started the project's first application this year in Ankara, and in the next few years, we're going to expand model factories. On the other hand, we're running a transforming project on industrial sites that are in the city centers. We're being renovated according to the age's needs to move industrial sites out of the city, from infrastructure to environmental regulation. We also open 300 technical colleges to 300 OSBs with the protocol signed by the Ministry of National Education to improve the quality of human resources the industry needs. With this, we aim to end the qualified labour problem of organised industrial areas and reduce unemployment rates. On the other hand, the Institute of Turkish Standards is taking significant steps towards Turkey becoming a country that determines standards, not just the country that fits standards. On the other hand, we are endeavoring to take important steps in the international community on behalf of our country in order to improve our activities abroad as both quality and quantity. In this regard, we plan actions for many countries and regions, such as Saudi Arabia, the Gulf Arab Co-operation Council, the African Organization. Another key indicator of our country's major change and development in the AK PARTY era is the rights of property. Turkey has signed major studies in the field of testing property over the past 15 years, and these studies have been strongly reflected in applications and registration numbers. Turkey is a country with 16 times more patent applications, 3 times more brand applications and 2 times more design applications than it was in 2002. In the first 11 months of 2017, we raised local patent applications by 14 per cent compared to the same period last year. We provide great support for our research community through academic RD support programs from TUBITAK, which we consider to be the flagship of science and technology. There have been major increases in our administrations during the programme, which TÜBİTAK has encouraged RD and innovation activities for the private sector. The amount of support provided between 2003 and 2017 is around $7 billion for more than 13,000 projects. As part of support mechanisms for both the academy and the private sector, we have supported 1,012 projects from 2012-2017, with a total of 321 calls. Mr. President, our every effort is to move forward with a sense of science and technology-oriented industry, distance. Through TUBITAK and COSGEB, we are in the service of more than 3,000 research and implementation centers in our universities, in our science, technology, industry and nation, focusing on quality and consumer rights, focusing on Turkish Patent and Marka institutions, our quality and consumer rights. We see the high-tech domestic product campaign as an integral part of Turkey's 2023 goals. Dear lawmakers, we will not back down under any circumstances from the industrial country of Turkey, which is the centre of science, Turkey, or Turkey. As the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, we will use our most effective funding for 2018. We'll keep in mind that every penny we get is the sweat of our nation, and we'll continue to make the most of everything we do right, fast and quality. I wish our budget of 2018 was good for our nation and our country. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0242par0070	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0243par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0242par0072	Mr. Ahrazoglu, do you have a request for a statement according to 60?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0243par0073	Yes, sir, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0242par0074	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0243par0077	Mr. President, thank you. In his presentation, the minister said in my speech this morning that he had the appointment of 12 apartment heads, even though there were 10 apartment heads in KOSGEB. This was done the same way in the 2015 reports and in the Court reports, as in the 2016 Court reports. The difference between last year and this year has been passed last year as the third finding, which is the fourth finding this year in the same reports. In addition, the report states there is no legal basis for the agency's appointment of two office heads as head of an apartment, which only excuses the work density. I mean, it's possible that that's not happening by our Minister, but it's been in the Court's reports for two years in a row. I made a promise to get him on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0244par0081	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, it's time for Mr. Ahmet Eshref Fakukbaba. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Mr. Secretary, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 27 minutes. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on the basis of our ministry's 2018 budget meeting, I salute you with respect and conversation. Man's oldest occupation is agriculture and food, its importance and strategic size, a vital sector that grows day by day. Today, the world's population is rapidly increasing, while agriculture-appropriate land is diminishing. As industry flourishes and cities grow, human beings are sadly neglectful of the soil that provides its food. In this century, countries and people have pursued industrialization and have experienced wealth, but have also begun to become selfish by forgetting the feeling of sharing. As a result, on one hand, we live in a world of hunger and on the other, health problems and waste combined with extreme consumption. Two billion people are overweight in our world, where injustice is so much involved in food sharing. This also deals with 650 million obesity problems, while 800 million people starve and 1 billion 300 million tons of food a year go to waste. Therefore, ever since the day we arrived, those who have passed away always go bankrupt. We say that agriculture and food are not only our food, but our future. Therefore, as a friend of mine said before me that agriculture is a matter of politics, I agree with it from the heart. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers are the result of a tradition, a culture that has not changed in twelve thousand years to produce and share its production on the land of Anatolia, because the civilizations established in this land were very well aware of the value of the farmer's sweat, the wisdom of the shepherd, who pursued sheep and goats, and the wisdom of the man who was open to every soul at his table. That's why he never spared the blessing of Anatolia. Turkey is one of the most important sources of genes in the world. Our country has a unique geography that contains 4,000 species of plants that are unique to this land. In the early years of the Republic, agriculture was regarded as a driving force in Turkey's development. A lot of work has been done to transition to modern agriculture, significant steps have been taken. We act in philosophy and responsibility in the agriculture industry to connect efforts in the past to future goals, to add more to what is being done. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have made significant improvements in agriculture, production and quality during the EC PARTI period. In the first nine months of 2017, we expect 3.3 per cent of the growing agricultural sector to complete this year with growth. In the last 14 years, growing agriculture has been the most stable period in the history of the republic. From 2005 to 2005, our leadership in Europe continues. Our exports of agricultural and food products increased fourfold during 2002-2016, up from $3.7 billion to 16.2 billion. Turkey is a net exporter in agricultural foreign trade. In the last 15 years, we've given $58 billion more exports in agricultural and food products foreign trade. Turkey is not just a country that exports its own products. It's also a country that can take its raw material from abroad, process it inside, add value and export it again. Today, when we're leading wheat flour exports around the world in second place in pasta exports, this is the result of our precious sense of exporting. Our efforts to increase our valuable exports in agriculture and food products will continue to continue the same. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY Governments have always stood by our farmer's side. All the resources of the state have been mobilized for agriculture. In 2003-2017, we paid our producers 103 billion liras, or 103 quadrillion liras in old money. In 2018, we'll support 14.5 billion liras. This support is the source of the cash we provide for agriculture. In addition, we will continue to provide important resources for agriculture in many pens, such as land collection and agricultural irrigation investments, agricultural loan subsidies, takeovers and export supports. We will continue to provide fuel, fertilizer, seeds, and feed plants especially for their inputs. If we consider 14 and a half plus the issues I'm talking about up there, we're averaging about 30 billion, as a government, we're supporting agriculture. As the government, which first implemented diesel support in 2003, we now cover half the cost of diesel on the product. We know the price of the diesel is going up, and we're going to update it based on the increase in diesel support this year. According to agricultural loans, we will continue to apply interest reduction between 25 per cent and 100 per cent, which is subsidies. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're making the ultimate effort to protect and develop these fertile lands that we have entrusted to our ancestors. This year, 192 major agricultural plains were protected by the Council of Ministers. In 2018, we will increase the number of plains to 250. Again, what a dear friend of ours said was that the number of plains would go up to 250, and what happened? We have now submitted 45 plains to the Council of Ministers, hoping that this number will reach 250. We're very concerned about the land-gathering work. From 1961 to 2002, the collection was massed in 450,000 hectares, while the AK PARTY was completed in 5,600,000 hectares. We continue to work in 1.8 million hectares. By 2023, we will complete the collection of 8 million hectares and reach 14 million hectares total and solve Turkey's collectiveization problem. We're co-ordinated with the Ministry of Forest and Waterworks to co-ordinate and implement land collection and irrigation projects together. In that respect, I'd like to thank the Minister and his friends from the bottom of my heart. We continue to apply 50 per cent grant support and zero interest loans to our farmers who use our water pressure irrigation system to use efficiently, and as a result of our talks with the Minister of the Forest and according to instructions given to us by our President, the brutal irrigation in Turkey is now over, and we will then meet our land with water pressured irrigation, by the permission of God.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0245par0145	And talk to the Minister of Energy, and you know the highest price is watering in agriculture. I'll be there, too. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are not only our primary goal, but to produce efficient, quality and planning. Therefore, under the National Agriculture Project, we have moved to the Basin Support Model. We support the strategically important 21 products in the basins where they will grow best. We support and support wheat, which is indispensable for human feeding, in all basins without segregating the food plants, which are essential to animal feeding. My dear friends, we have reached an important level of both production and export with the seed support that was first initiated during our governments. In the last 15 years, our seed production has risen from 145 thousand tons to 960,000 tons, from 15 million dollars to 154 million dollars in seed exports. Today, we are a country that exports seeds to 76 countries. In 2023, we determined our target of 2 million tons of seed production and $500 million seed exports, and we accelerated our work in that direction. In the last decade, active RD studies have increased the use of domestic vegetables from 10 to 60 percent. Organic agriculture and good agricultural support continue. We're increasing the scope of agricultural insurance every year. A total of $3.4 billion in premiums have been paid in the last decade, 3.6 billion in damages. This year, we will expand the drought efficiency insurance, which begins in wheat, to cover all grains in 2018. In TARSIM until 2020 -- friends, and I'll stress -- moving into the income-based insurance system will be our biggest goal and goal as an AK PARTI. In addition, in 2017, we postponed the debt of all of our farmers affected by natural disasters to the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops for a year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's a lot of applause.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0246par0151	And you got 3% interest.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0245par0152	Everyone, give a round of applause, give Mr. Secretary a pep rally. Madam Secretary, I'm the only one listening. I swear to God, that's what's needed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Why did I underline the income-based insurance system -- income-based, really -- and we're going to tell the wheat producer, if we hope to catch this -- how much do you cost, how much do you have to make, and how much should this sell? You're insured anyway, and if you sell it under it, you'll get the insurance money you're missing, and if you've sold it too much, you won't need your insurance anyway. In this context, we, the AK PARTY, care about that, and, hopefully, we have a strong feeling that we will succeed. My fellow lawmakers, as far as our ministry is concerned, all products are closely monitored by domestic and external markets. In 2017, TMO received an intervention in wheat, corn, nuts, and raisins, according to market developments, thus preventing the producer's sacrifice and providing significant contributions to the regulatory of the markets. In 2017, TMO received 2,50,000 tonnes of wheat, 205,000 tons of corn, 5,000 tons of raisins, 16,000 tons of poppy capsules, 137 thousand tons of nuts. In exchange for these purchases, our farmers have been paid $3.4 billion. Besides, for the first time in the history of the Republic, we started the licensed warehouse move. As a matter of fact, a dear friend of ours may just be right about himself, and I respect that... we've already noted the criticism that our friends are right, and we're going to be working as a team to correct them. But I want to ask you, what would the price of nuts be, if it hadn't been for TMO?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0247par0157	WHAT did you do with FESSION? Is it the duty of TMO to buy nuts?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0248par0158	What happened to FESSION, Minister, what happened to FESSION? Look, nut prices would be in the hands of hoarders for $5 or $6, but what would our Department of Agriculture and TMO do? He increased the amount of product he could deliver per dekar from 90 kilograms to 130 kilograms, and increased the rate of bruising in nut purchases from 3 percent to 5...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0247par0160	Mr. Secretary, you've destroyed the FESSION. It's not your job, it's the FESSION. Look, I'm giving numbers, guys, I'm giving numbers, I'm giving numbers.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0248par0162	Minister, after the harvest is finished, you open the TMO. Until then, the merchant will have it as it was the farmer. They got the price at $900.600. Look, I've bought 137 thousand tons of nuts, whether it's nice or not, I've paid 1.5 quadrillion dollars. (AK PARTI APPLAUSE) The depletion rate of nut purchases has been reduced from 3 percent to 5 percent, from 2 per cent to 7 per cent, and the minimum rate of ratings has been reduced from 40 per cent to 37 per cent.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0249par0164	It wouldn't have happened if we hadn't taken a walk. The payments were taken from 15 days to a week. The purchase points have been raised from 18 to 45. Nut prices are still sold on the market for $9.9.5. We did a nut walk, that's why, we did a nut walk. GIDE, THE AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY IS THE Department of Agriculture (TMO) that stabilizes the Nut. If it hadn't been for the Department of Agriculture, I can honestly say, more than $6, look, it would've been in the hands of hoarders.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0250par0169	And the cost is $9.5.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0251par0170	What about the wheat, Mr. Secretary? Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, combined with our producers' efforts and investments, have made significant increase in plant production. During 2002-2017, our total plant production...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0252par0172	Mr. Secretary, are you going to give the farmer the MDV-free, VAT-free diesel? GIDE, AGREEMENT AND INVESTIGATION HAS increased from 98 million tons to 120 million tons. Look, I'll repeat, 22 million tons increase from 98 million tons, please take a look at the TİK numbers. We will continue our new projects in plant production. In vegetables, our applications for new seeds continue to grow to grow to produce and to our country. With five years of practice, we aim to greatly meet the need for vegetable seeds from abroad. We're launching a new investment project that aims to increase quality and producer profitability in cotton and other fibre plants, which are the raw materials of textile industry.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0253par0174	How many pounds of cotton do you import? Our efforts are continuing to increase the number of agricultural-based organised greenhouse areas. Our work will continue to increase with the aim of strengthening our efficient, quality and adequate production. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we have considered animalism an important and priority sector. There's a lot of...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0254par0177	You didn't leave animals in public. Look, just listen, for God's sake.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0253par0179	It's not your fault. Okay, we're listening, we're listening. - I listened to you there, didn't I? I listened without saying a word. Listen to me for a second, I've listened.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0255par0181	Yes, let's hear it, Congressmans.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0253par0182	We're listening, sir. We're listening. Mr. Secretary, we're listening. But there are no animals.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0256par0183	No animals, that's what I'm trying to tell you. Look, I'll answer all your questions. But believe me, we've offered a lot of new support to our producers. Look, there's something... so if there's anything in this, please tell me.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0253par0185	It's not your fault, it's the AK PARTY's fault. In 2002-2017, we raised the share of animalism from 4 to 30 percent in total support. In the last 15 years, we've paid 25 billion dollars for livestock, 25 quadrillion dollars for old money.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0256par0187	More than 200,000 animals have been slaughtered since 2010, Mr. Secretary. We've taken animalism into account zero interest loans. It's all closed. In 2016, we removed the VAT, which was 8% of the mixed feed.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0257par0191	The price hasn't changed, it's gone up. In the last 15 years, we've given $4.5 billion to feed plants, we've given them money, we've given them money. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You did good, you did good, but livestock is over.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0258par0195	It's over.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0257par0196	I wonder why it's over. There is no calf without mother; without calf, there is no meat and milk. With this philosophy, we created the Industrial Production Support Model in Petting in 2017 to develop domestic production in livestock.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0258par0198	It's too late. As part of the model, we set up 40 provinces of breeding centers, 40 provinces of production, which I did not do, my predecessors and friends before me; I thank them from the heart -- the breeding coach, the single production center, the 15 provinces. In these provinces, we provide 50% for breeding, stables, barns, and equipment purchase.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0257par0200	That's not a grant, Mr. Secretary. There are 10 buffaloes in 2002 and now there are 1 buffalo. Mr. Deputys, be assured that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0259par0202	I've got a skateboard on your head! GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY SEARCH OF AGREEF FAKIBABA (Secondly) -...with TKDK (TKDK)...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0257par0204	With the Meat and Milk Foundation... GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY WITH THE EAT AND MILKY COMPANY... Occupational rooms... We're under the manufacturer's command in association with the Department of Agriculture and with the Department of Agriculture. You're saying we've finished farming in unity and unity! We are your brothers who sincerely believe that the manufacturer, how sacred they are, how important a sentence the Great Ataturk had said. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We believe you, we believe you. For him, the manufacturer is the crown of our heads. In every context, we will always be there for the manufacturer, and we will continue to be there for the heart.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0260par0214	We're out of manufacturers. We've identified our 30 provinces as a breeding ground, and you know here, we also have support for them. Why did you remove the food support, Mr. Secretary? In East and Southeast, one of our friends said: "These are closed to the people, they are not developing livestock for him." I went to Şırnak, I went to Şırnak, I went to Kars, I went to Ardahan, I went to Ardahan, and I went to Turkey -- I hope I am in Şırnak and Haqari, and we spoke to our governors again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0261par0218	We're waiting for Erzurum. And I will come to Erzurum.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0262par0220	We're waiting for Tripoli, Mr. Secretary. This year, all our manufacturer brothers will benefit from these pedestrians, by the grace of God.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0263par0222	We're waiting for Van. I've come to Van, I've come to Van, but...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0264par0224	Mr. Secretary, is this your first trip?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0265par0225	Does that mean you're going to lift the bans? Look, this is very important friends, we're starting something new. We support each calf for four months and above, scheduled, vaccinated, up to 750 liras. Again, one of our very dear friends said that the minister came, and I swear to God, these ministers had nothing to do with agriculture or livestock.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0266par0228	He's right. As a physician, I looked at animalism so important, so closely with health that it's so important that it's important that from birth to death, I'm getting a huge benefit from having vet doctors and doctor friends because it's born, look, it's born.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0267par0231	Bravo, bravo [[!]] What do we do when we're born? Friends, when you're born...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0268par0234	Minister, we want an agricultural engineer for the Ministry of Health. Look, I didn't tell you... As long as the Minister of Health is an agricultural engineer, the doctor is the Minister of Agriculture. Please listen to me, and then I'll answer your questions. When you're born, do we support the calf up to 750 lira or not? I swear to God we do. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) When you're born, 750... You know what we're gonna do now? The vaccines are all free, veterinary care is free.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0269par0240	Is this the vaccine we're running out of? We're bringing in family medicine. This can't be the old Minister of Health's vaccines. The ear earrings are free; look, ear earrings are free; for the first time, earpieces are free.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0270par0244	Petting is on the shelf in private security areas? How's that? The vaccine is free.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0271par0246	He couldn't find earrings just last month, citizen. And our Veysel Minister just said: "Let's take hands together in these forest villages. I said: Brother, it'll be your command. You build the barn, and I'll give you an animal.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0272par0248	Bravo! Look, we're going to come to small businesses later, small businesses.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0273par0250	Mr. Secretary, the earrings have come from $2.5 to $7.5, and you still call them free. Now, as well as in our 41 provinces, such as Gap-DAP-KOP and DOCAP, and our raw milk premiums will continue. In order to ensure price stability in milk, we buy milk from the market and turn it into milk dust if necessary through the ESK.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0272par0252	No, there's nothing to buy here. There's ports everywhere, industry... I have to go through very fast. Look, now, a very valuable congressman of ours said: "What if this, this, this, you got this much?" Yes, friends, what if the name was Cemil, what if it was Ali?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0274par0255	Why are they all Rizeli? I'll get it from Hasan, I'll get it from Osman. Why are they all Rizeli? Wait a minute... Why are they all allies? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0275par0261	Why isn't there a Diyarbakir, why isn't there a Mardinn? But I promise you, I'll give you my price.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0276par0263	Listen, members of lawmakers, please... Look, look, please, let me... look, Mr. President, I've got a lot of time... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0277par0266	We give, we give, we give for five more minutes. I'll give you the price -- if his name were Osman, what if his name was Ali -- you'll check from Europe and you'll say, "Helal, he bought these animals very cheap."
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0278par0269	Way to go, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0279par0270	Who identified those four companies?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0277par0271	The previous minister had hit 7 grand. Look, meat prices, friends... the butcher's my brother. Look, I'll tell you right now, we were taking $23.80 as an ESK, and we went up to $25 in an instant, and then we made a decision -- and I didn't have that kind of support -- and from January 2018 to January 1, when the small breeder takes his animal to any licensed slaughterhouse, he'll get 250 pounds of support from the head, 250 lira.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0280par0274	That's it, that's it. Look, I made a profit there, and I raised $1.20 as a BSK, $2.20. Now, I promise you in front of all of you: from January 1st, the ESK will make its segments at $25.50, $2.70. Minister, the CHP didn't understand. Tell me again.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0281par0277	He didn't understand. We understood very well.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0282par0278	Mr. Secretary, just one question: I'll take the questions there. We asked, the Meat and Milk Foundation... - But don't give me a minute... We'll give it five minutes, we'll get it, we'll ask the President. Look, I'm out of time. Now, look, the little manufacturer is the crown of my head. We'll support the small manufacturer. He'll be supported in ways you don't see. Look, the animals will be distributed. Why haven't you done it in 15 years?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0283par0286	Minister, you must be at the wrong party. But you won't let me talk.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0282par0289	Are you here for the midterm, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0283par0290	Mr. Secretary, you must be at the wrong party.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0282par0291	It's so badly run, it's so badly run by the Ministry. Brother, look... at what I said at first: I'm against meat imports. We'll get this meat import out of here, God willing. We're going to do it with small manufacturers and TIGEM, with TIGEM, and with small manufacturers, and make sure of that, because there's never been any support, friends. Tomorrow, with the Bank of Agriculture, I'll have the details of this... and Mr. President and Prime Minister will make the necessary statements. And it is our President that I have been instructed to do so. In that case, relax about it. Now...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0284par0293	The President already knows everything; there's nothing he doesn't know about agriculture or livestock. If it's up to the President, fine! Gida, don't do this. Oh, come on. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He knows everything, he knows everything.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0285par0297	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0286par0298	You address him, Mr. Secretary, you carry on.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0287par0299	We're grateful to the President. Once again, look, we're going to finish importing. Let's agree that imports will end, there will be small supports, TIGEM will feed and feed 500,000 calves.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0288par0302	Write it down, Mr. Secretary. Write it down.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0289par0303	Mr. Secretary, you've rented all the property of the TIGEM, except for Ceelanpınar. GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where's he gonna feed it? 500 thousand calves to feed. Two minutes from us to the Minister, Mr. President. Now, look, you're confusing me, I can't do anything for him. So none of us want to import livestock, especially me.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0290par0311	Mr. Secretary, the microphone is off, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0291par0312	Mr. Secretary, you're out of time. I'll give you two minutes. Here, finish it. GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY Guys, please, let me just take these two minutes. At the end of these studies, we believe that we will not be importing animals, but exporting them.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0292par0316	When?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0293par0317	In how many years? How many years? I believe, believe, believe, believe, believe. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Okay, how many years? There are examples of Brazil, France. So am I more backward than a man in France, or is my manufacturer more backward? We, look... In how many years? GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY We've been waiting 15 years. How many more years? We're going to export. Our goal is domestic and adequate production. Let's hope we all do this together, together with all of you, look with you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0294par0326	They won't, Mr. Secretary, they won't make you. I'd like to share with you some of the projects we've planned in this context: small family enterprises will be encouraged, encouraged as much as you don't see, and you'll see, with the permission of Allah, we will support people who know the job.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0293par0329	Come on, God willing, God willing. We're going to strengthen the breed, the buffalo, the ram, and the one-on-one production centers we started this year. I'll follow you one by one every night. Where it is, what it is, what it is; it will be followed.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0295par0331	Bravo! We're going to continue our support for GEDA, FORMATION AND ANIMALITY. You'll see, we'll weigh in on the reforms.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0296par0333	There's no more Mera. You've dealt with the bag with the law. In 2018, we're going to reform in 2 million square miles. We've increased the feed plant support. Look, it's a new thing that we started this year; we'd give 80 cents for the first product where the agricultural product used to be, and when the second product was, it could get 60 percent, and we took it away. Now, with the full support of the feed plant in every field where the cotton is planted, and not taking down that 80 cents of cotton, we will produce the bait plant with the permission of God in all the fields that have been empty for those five months.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0297par0335	You've done a favor for Urbana again, Mr. Secretary. Also, this year, we launched a new practice as pilots. With this app... Mehmet is the biggest cotton producer. I've told you this, I've told you that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're going to fight animal disease effectively and reduce calf loss as physicians.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0298par0342	Mr. Secretary, please complete your statement. In addition to Brusella, LSD and smallpox vaccines, we add the E-Coli vaccine and the vaccine program for free. We will increase the breeding capacity of TIGEM. The rural development and the IPArd, the milk market, there's so much to tell, I wish there was an hour.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0297par0344	We'll listen, Mr. Secretary. But we're meeting with Mr. Mehmet Bey. We'll meet, God willing, with all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0299par0347	You haven't collected the Commission yet, Mr. Secretary. The commission hasn't met yet.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0300par0348	You haven't spoken in two years, Mr. Secretary? Mr. President, we're also going to give a great deal of importance to RD, an important element of catching the age. We've produced our native line of Anado, this is a revolution in chicken, hopefully we'll bring it up, and I thank you, especially all of you, and I've received your right reviews, and I've noted them, and I hope we'll do them, too. I'd like to thank you in advance for your support for our ministry budget. I wish our budget to our farmers, to our Ministry, and to our country, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0301par0351	You stopped supporting the farmers in the water!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0302par0352	Mr. Secretary, we've taken notes. It's going to be harder next year.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0301par0353	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0303par0354	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0304par0355	Mr. President, according to 60...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0305par0356	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0303par0357	Mr. Sarıbal, I promise you and Mr. Master. Let me make a promise to Mr. Master, deputy chief of the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0306par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. In the minister's speech, the price of nuts would have dropped to $6 if it hadn't been for TMO. Of course, we can't assume that. So in a country where 75 percent of world production is made and where there are very small, very small manufacturers, there is no assumption that there is no intervention institution where the manufacturer is not organized, that's a false assumption. Besides, this intervention agency isn't strong either. Right now, the Turkish nut has been handed over to foreign monopoly, and we need to see this. The average cost of nuts was 10-10.5 liras, and the nut was largely subtracted from the manufacturer's hand at $8.9, and now it has a price of around $8.9. The nut maker is a victim, we need to see this. Otherwise, there are serious structural problems. We've talked about this a lot here, and we've had group suggestions over and over again. It needs to be focused on solving structural problems. Intervention needs to be both financially and technically powerful. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0307par0365	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0308par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Minister's statements may be true from his own windows, but I'd like to say that it doesn't match the fact that Turkey is living in other republics, I think. In short, I'd like to draw a profile of the years of the AKP. From 2002 to today, the total amount of grain -- wheat, corn, rice -- has been paid 62 million, 831 thousand tons of imports, 17 billion, 544 million dollars. That's the cost of the grain alone, there's a total of $171 billion in agricultural imports. There's $5.4 billion in imports in livestock. Either the Minister doesn't live in this country or we don't. The main cost of animalism is bait; the bait covers 65 to 70 percent of livestock. You sold the merch... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're gonna say a lot of things.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0309par0374	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. To the other two groups, both the People's Democratic Party Group and the National Movement Party Group, I promise one person only: Mr. Botan and Mr. Karakaya. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0310par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, the minister stated that they had given the farmer diesel support, but so far, the farmer in Van has never received diesel support. The other issue, as noted, is that Van is number 1 in Turkey in the small animal. Although the cattle are also ranked in the 15th place, the Association of Meat and Milk has been closed for many years. In the same way, 75 percent of the land, its land, its land, its meadows, but they are banned for various reasons. In this sense, the manufacturer was severely banned and severely punished. I mean, there's a lot of fines out there for people who are animal-making, with packs. Again, in the same way, the money used by the farmer, as I said, has not been paid yet, and the Earth's Harvest Office is open only for a month a year in Van. Thus, our manufacturer there is officially abandoned at the mercy of opportunists. In the same way...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0311par0385	Mr. Karakaya, please.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0312par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course, he gave a very exciting, beautiful speech. I specifically expressed in my speech on benefits: two kinds of support, one made from the budget, and the other from the price. In 2002, I explained that the support model had changed, that it had been transferred from more budgets to direct support, and that's why budget funding had been increased. Yes, the support has gone up from the budget, but for the past 14 years, the farmer has lost a lot of money from the market. As far as buying power parities go, look, the only damage to wheat is 32 billion, 32 quadrillion in these 14 years, and it's no different in other products. That's one of the reasons why the farmer is in trouble today. I repeat, budget-paying support, yes, it has. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, price support, market regulatory was not done during this period, and the farmer was completely damaged.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0313par0392	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0312par0393	And the farmer said all his debts have been expunged and postponed, Mr. Secretary. There should be a correction, because they've been asking us all the time. It's not that, it's just that it's about the farmers who get hurt, the farmers who get hurt in the natural disasters. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0313par0395	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Now, on behalf of the government, the third speaker is Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty-six minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0448	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm here to report to you in particular the budget of 2018 of our Ministry and its subsidiaries. I sincerely hope this budget is a blessing. Of course, our Ministry is really an investor ministry. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is already a ministry to protect nature, to develop water resources. Our ministry's presence is 62,800 people. The budget of 2018, the total budget is $21 billion. I hope it's good for you. So far, of course, we, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, have invested 158 billion TL, especially in water and forestry. Our ministry is a world-renowned ministry, especially in the construction of dams, in forestry areas. I especially want to stress that in the past, the dams, the wastewater, the drinking water treatment plants used to be made by foreigners, and now we've developed our own technology, we're doing business with completely domestic technology, domestic engineers, domestic contractors, and prices have gone down a lot, and I'd like to proudly express that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, the 4 billionth plant has recently been planted in Edirne, our Serhat city, at the opening ceremony of 375 facilities. Also, for the first time, the UN Forestry Summit was held in Istanbul. Look, we have a say in forestry in the world. Before that, before the Istanbul meeting, the entire United Nations World Forestry Forum and Summit were held in New York. For the first time, when we told it, it was done in Istanbul. In fact, if you remember, the 12th Conference on Desertization of the United Nations was held in Ankara. This is really a clear indication of how far we've gotten in the fight against forestry and desertification, and I want to stress it specifically. In particular, we are world leaders in the fight against desertification. Look, our national parks have won awards for excellence in the world. In particular, our 24 protected areas have been certified perfection. I mean, around the world, that's really... We're doing long-term work on droughts under water management, my dear lawmakers. In particular, in Turkey, look, the driest year of forty-four years 2017, but did you feel the drought? You didn't feel it because we had plans A, B, C. With the dams we built, with the drinking water plants, thank God, we gave water to all the cities. I want to express it with pride. There's also, of course, a major directorate, like the Department of Forestry General Directorate. One of the most radical institutions was founded in 1839. In fact, I'm very proud of their work. Before, the forest service would only plant trees and fight forest fires in forest areas, but in particular, during our government's time, we have crossed the forest service; at every point throughout Turkey, the forest service is now handing out roads, schoolyards, hospital courtyards, temple courtyards, graveyards, and even free saplings to all citizens. I'd like to stress in particular that there's been a major development in this forestry. In fact, for the first time in Turkey, in support of forest villagers, we worked to build 5,000 revenue-producing forests in 5,000 villages. What are we doing? There are 38 action plans: here we are setting up almond forest, walnut forest, truffles, olive forest, and we're taking them to the nearest forest village or in the urban community, dispersing them equally in public, drawing lots. So in the end, we're doing a really good job of taking care of it for three years, all its expenses, the ministry's income, for forty-nine years. Why? Our understanding is that everything is for the nation. We love our people. We embrace 80 million and say, "Live man so that the state can live." We understand that. In this framework is not only the DSI, the Forest, but also the Ministry General Directorate for Meteorology, the General Directorate for Nature Protection and National Parks, the Turkish Water Institute, the General Directorate for Deserting and Anti-Erosion. We've crossed the age, especially in meteorology. Look, let me put it this way: let's say that the weather of 1,840 dots in any city is now possible to see from all over the world; from Japan, from America. For example, I'm looking at my Deputy Enlightenment, and now you can see the weather of Aydın's China from Japan. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Other than that, my esteemed deputies, I'd like to point out that 2017 was, in fact, very productive for our ministry. Well, that, of course, has been a great contribution to our President because he has opened the way for a competition. On 21 May 2017, Mr. President said in his speech: "I will see what the ministries will do in a hundred and eighty days. In fact, on the evening of May 21st, I gave all the friends -- thank you all -- written instructions, the permits have been lifted, Saturday, Sunday, no market, everyone will set a goal. They've really worked hard, and, my valued lawmakers, we've prepared 375 facilities in a hundred and eighty days that we've opened the total investment of $7.7 billion, about $8 billion. When? November 29th. We've sent you an invitation. So, what are these? Look, can you imagine, in the world, opening 77 dams at a time? 77 dams, 32 ponds, 139 irrigation facilities, 21 cities drinking plants, 12 groups of forestry, and two groups of meteorology, in fact, not 375, but 997, we made a group of flood guards, and we made all the stations of farming, meteorology a group; so 375 facilities, really, were brought into our country. Also, let me put it this way, especially with our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, we've done a very good job. Look, during this period, we've opened up 2 million acres to water in this hundred and eighty days. So every year our farmers will have an additional $1 billion a year. That's it? You know, this year we had an opening ceremony with our Prime Minister. On 5 April 2017, we went together in İzmir, where we opened 101 facilities. So that's how we do it, so we don't open any facilities, we open them up, we open them up, we give them the time of the openings as we lay the foundation; that's the difference. (AK PARTY) My dear brothers, if you ask me what we did at this opening ceremony in İzmir, we opened 26 dams and 6 ponds there. So this year, just this year, we've sealed a world record in Turkey with 103 dams and 38 ponds, thank God. I can't thank God enough. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, I had to run a lot when my friends worked. Until this date, we've done programs in our 77 counties until last night -- many counties, 157 districts -- basic launch ceremony, particularly certification of the forest villagers, and CENTRAL supports in 77 counties. Just a few more provinces. Our Mardin MPs are here, and we'll go to Mardin tomorrow -- roughly 600 million -- with God's blessing -- to lay the foundation of an enormous investment. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm saying hello to the Mardinns from here.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0315par0464	Is there any light, Aydın?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0465	So, what did we do in these, in 77 provinces? Sir, these weren't pleasure visits. Congressman, we've been to Sinop. Don't worry, we've been there, you know. You're going to say, what's this opening? We're making less than 10 trillion, more than 10 trillion, making the Prime Minister and the President collectively. These are openings from 1 to 10 trillion, less than 10 trillion. So we've opened 1,517 facilities, and the total cost of these facilities is $26 billion,131 million. I mean, we're working really hard, especially. I'm proud of my friends, my whole team. They've made a great sacrifice to compete with the world, for the love of the country, day and night, without really recognizing the concept of my overtime. In particular, I apologize to their parents because they've been separated from their families for a long time, their families haven't seen the children. In that respect, I thank them.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0316par0469	You didn't make the closed circuit in the 40s, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0470	So, what did we do in this frame? My fellow lawmakers, I would like to stress in the wooding, that the forest presence in the world is dwindling in many countries, but in Turkey -- look, we're getting the deed -- the forests are worth 15 million dollars, so 1.5 million hectares of forest have increased. We counted it on the deed. There used to be no deed, it was occupied, but now we never invade a square meter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two, you're going to say that the field has increased, what happened? When we add the volume of all the wood in the wood -- we call it the wealth of the wood -- we bought it from 1.2 billion cubic metres, and now it's up to 33%. Thank God. That's it, that's environmentalism. If it's called environmentalism, protecting nature, there's no one better to protect it than we do. As an environmental professor, I too have the happiness of applying what I've written, dear brothers and sisters. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, the wooding field has gone up five times, look, the wooding. 45,684 schoolyards, 22,380 temples, 1,731 hospitals and health clinics, 19834 kilometers of roadside trees. Also, in Sakarya, we've established the stock market for Fidan and Favourite Plants, and I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. Now, what's our target? In particular, at the 12th Conference on Desertization of the United Nations, we sent a message to the world, saying: "We will plant a plant for every human in the world until the 100th year of the founding of our republic, 2023. So we're going to increase the number of plants to 7 billion. 7.7 billion plants, thank God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, of course, we've established 144 urban forests, 1,323 jobs, so that citizens can have a good time with their families. Besides, dear friends, there used to be no beekeepers in the woods. Now, what did we do? Come brother, we are building a forest of honey. We call the beekeepers. It's on us. It's on us. For example, if Erfelek wants chestnut honey, chestnut honey, flower honey, pine honey, we plant them, and in the end, we've actually moved up to the 6th place in the world, to the 2nd place in the world.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0317par0479	And you send water to the trustees.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0480	Let me put it this way: if the citizen has no money, come, 20 percent is a grant, and the rest is free of interest; earn the money, pay the money in five years. That's publicism, that's brothers, okay, that's publicism. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, other than that, my deputies, do you know we've prepared 38 action plans? There used to be no action plan. From the mulberry action plan to the truffle and to the burial site, walnuts, almonds, whatever you can think of, there are 38 action plans. We plant them, our peasant, our jungle peasant wins. I'd like to stress that in particular. And I've got some very valuable deputies here who are very interested -- they're not interested in medical aromatic plants. With the support of our representatives, we said, there's a $115 billion-a-year potential in this world, there's a market.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0318par0484	How many?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0485	$115 billion, but Turkey can only make $600 million of exports. It's so small. But our biological diversity, the flora, the fauna, is more than the continent. We have about 10,500 special species, this is 3. It's an endemic of 600. I mean, what does it mean? Only in Turkey, nowhere else. And herbs. Hopefully, we've sent you a small example of this, one of our crops, the healing plants.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0319par0486	We got it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0318par0487	May God heal them, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0488	Also, sir, we brought water. As much as I've been criticized by my deputy, I wasn't in the mood to bring anything else with a ladle, Congressman.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0318par0489	Minister, I hope it heals.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0490	So, for healing, we sent it to Cyprus, especially from the Alaköpurru Dam to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, to bottled water, spring water, and the spring water of Toros, as a souvenir to you, sir. And I'll tell you this: we never give up burning areas for anything else. If they prove it, go ahead. Because it's our basic principle in particular. So, that's why, last Thursday, we planted 33,500 plants with one of our artists in Ayvaluk.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0320par0492	Who was the artist, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0321par0493	And on behalf of the MPs, lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0494	And there's a seedling there in your name.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0320par0496	You should have told me the name of that artist.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0497	We don't have an obelisk in Turkey anymore. You don't say, you have an obelisk. Besides, here we are, 5,000 villages, 5,000 forests, and so far we've built a forest that brings revenue to 3,047 villages. How much? We planted 6.5 million revenue-producing plants and delivered them to the village. Hopefully, by the end of 2019, my instructions to my friends will be that by the end of December 31, 2019, there will be 5,000 revenue-producing forests in 5,000 villages. That's it. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Other than that...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0322par0499	Minister, we can't see him in the villages of Aydın. Give one to Aydın for God's sake.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0500	And I'll tell you this: our country needs 30 million cubic meters of raw material, 21 million cubic metres of it provided by the Forest Service, and it earns 3 billion dollars a year. Also, the forest cadastro, my deputies, used to work on their own, the deed cadastro worked separately. We put it together for the first time, now it's a deed to the forest, and 99 percent of its cadastros are finished, and 83 percent of it we got the deed. There's a deed to the forest now. What does that mean? The forests can no longer be invaded. That period is over. In our time, not one square meter of forest space can be invaded because it has a deed, its coordinates are set. It wasn't obvious back then, so here I have my jungle brothers, and they know it. And I'm going to talk about forest fires very quickly. Look, we have a very good system in forest fires. In fact, this system has received the prize of Turkey twice. I have the technology to see the speed of the helicopter in the air, the coordinates, from the big screen in my office during the fire. Right now, the best technology in forest fires -- I'm a tech lover, and I use it very well -- is proud to say, the world's most advanced forest fires control system is in Turkey. I'm just saying this to make you proud. (EC PARTY) In fact, right now, we don't just control forest fires in Turkey. Twice there was a great fire in Israel, and they could not put it out, and we helped. There was a great fire in Russia. Mr. Putin asked our President for support. The Russians and the Turks have given the most difficult place to say so and so, but our people put it out first, and they got a commendation from Mr. Putin, like this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From Macedonia to Libya, we especially support the fight against fire from Greece to Albania. We've also narrowed down to 45 minutes to 15 minutes in the fires. We're rehabilitating the minefields. And in particular, let me say with pride, what was it used to be called when we were kids? Because of erosion in Turkey, the land was as lost as the island of Cyprus. Indeed, about 500 million tonnes of land used to flow in Turkey. But really, about that, we're in the middle of a planned study right now. In the upper basins, we narrowed it down to one third - 168 million tons - with reforms, especially with reforming, and deforestation. Is that enough? It's not. The work is going on, hopefully, and we're going to make it much lower. Let me tell you a little bit about nature protection, national parks, desertification... and the nature protection national parks are really our pride. There's the district managers there. Look, just to get your attention, I'm saying that in 2002, the total area of the containment fields was 9 million. Now we've increased their containment field, raised 30 million square miles, that's it. More than three floors. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The number of national parks rose to 33, 42, and the nature park was 17, 223. We've also prepared the Natural Tourism Master Plan for 81 provinces. And with regard to national parks, we have prepared Çanakkale, and have completed all things concerning Çanakkale. We've done all the martyrdoms, all the roads, all the way from Tekirdağ Multial Dam to the Gallipoli Peninsula. Later, the Ministry of Culture Tourism was established as head of the Area Management Department, where we delivered it. Now, one of our Çanakkale deputies said: "Ya, there was the Forest District Directorate, and you removed it." But then when the field management was established, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, where we removed Nature Protection and National Parks, carried it all the way to Şanlıurfa, moved it to you, Mr. Minister, where, as a result, we re-established the Department of the Forest District. That's the gist of it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In fact, I'll tell you this: at some point this Gallipoli Peninsula is going to be held by the Multial Dam... where Çanakkale's allocation has been reduced -- if my deputy from Edirne is here, he may be angry with me -- I'll take it to Edirne's side. Let me stress this in particular. So that's the story of the Forest Area Department, and I want to make that very clear. Of course, here, like Mount Spil, Uludağ... we're especially inviting, Uludağ has become magnificent, Mt. Manisa Spil is magnificent. Besides, after Çanakkale, you know, we started the Isoclical Promotion Center. Commander-in-Chief National Park is in our name. And it began from Shuhutar Shuhut, and began from the land where it was earned; and we set up an Izmir, and a Uğur, and a Dumlupınar. And the Battle of Clumsy Square is very important in our history. Here, we've declared this a national park, where there's a great promotional center. I don't want to go into detail, we support nature. And we're taking care of stray animals. I'll give you the details of this in question and answer. We take care of the stray animals as much as we can. Well, I guess I'm short on water activity.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0323par0519	Two minutes to go, you never mentioned the Great Menderes. It's been a year.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0520	Sir, let me put it this way...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0324par0521	We've just laid groundwork on the cranberry.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0522	We just got here, didn't we? Sir, we're laying the foundation of the Halfway Dam in the snow in winter. I don't care if it's a bora...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0325par0525	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0526	There used to be, in the old Turkey, I know; November, December, January, February, March, months that were unworkable, we don't have a month that can't be worked. Day and night, Saturday, Sunday, storm, snow... That's it, that's working. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sir, there's no need to mention the DSI. Look, so far we've opened 7,200 facilities in the DSI, 7,200. Look, there's 508. There's dams, there's countless ponds, there's HES, there's 1,171, there's a irrigation plant, there's 193. My dear brothers, I've built the SKI General Directorate, and I know Turkey's thirst best, for God's sake.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0326par0531	You solved Istanbul's water problem.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0532	So, right now, we have a plan of action for all cities. There was no water in 193 settlements, 76 downtown. We've brought water to Mardin... wherever you want it all to be. Şanlıurfa...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0327par0533	What were these people drinking before you, bottled water?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0534	...Kilis, Gaziantep, Mersin, Sinop...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0328par0535	Mr. Secretary, you haven't closed-circuited the centipede yet.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0329par0536	They were dying of thirst before you, Mr. Secretary, even death!
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0537	So, finally, we brought water all over the place. In fact, as if it wasn't enough, they also asked the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Yeah, we just took the water out of the sea, 50 miles in the sling, 100 miles in total, with the landline. That's who we are. It shows the strength of our nation, thank God. We built big dams. Of course, the time is limited, but we've prepared a pamphlet for you, and we've put these in. Besides, this 508 dam is all there is to see how it's opened...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0330par0538	Mr. Secretary, how many of these dams did the government make, how many of them private sectors? Give him an explanation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0314par0539	Now, as a result, let alone dams, we built a thousand ponds in a thousand days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, you're doing very well, thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0331par0542	Tell me while the mike's on, Mr. Secretary, I won't accept it now. I'll give you two more minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0332par0545	Thank you, Mr. President and the Court. They're doing really well, too. Hopefully, we'll close the budget negotiations in a nice, sweet way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I believe you have four minutes. Now, sir, we're finishing the GAP. We've finished 550,000 hectares of 1,88,000 hectares, and by the end of the year, we're going to finish it substantially. We also build 1,071 ponds. There's no problem with the drinking water. We've secured 4,471 creek reforms in the extremities, protecting 4.5 million acres from floods. We've written epics in HES. Look, we used to produce 26 billion kilowatts of electricity, and now we're producing 95 billion kilowatts, and we've doubled it to three.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0333par0549	Which is it, the creeks or the big dams?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0332par0550	Great dams and streams. They talked about the teenager, but it would be morning if I told you about it. So, I've prepared a pamphlet, and if my deputy from Edirne isn't gone, I'll give it to him. The activities of SUEN are truly magnificent. Meteorology took 1,840 facilities and put them to work. As a result, my dear brothers, and another important news: we are not only preparing GAP, KOP, DAP, but for all Turkey, we have prepared development zones, which will be completed by the end of 2019. If anyone wants to hear it, we'll hand it out where we're going, and if any of my deputies want it, we'll send out those pamphlets. As a result, I wasn't really able to talk about the activities of SUEN, because my time was up. Mr. President, let me finish my promise.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0334par0556	Of course.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0332par0557	Sir, I really want to thank you all. The comments, recommendations, and proposals of speakers are always taken into account. I'm a particularly careful person. Therefore, criticism, advice, not without an offer. Your criticisms, if you have them, are the crown of our heads, and we will take them into consideration. And we're doing the best we can...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0335par0559	Mr. Secretary, you didn't tell us about the closed circuit of the centipede.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0332par0560	There's information on him in the QA, it's gonna take a while, we don't have time. We'll do that in particular, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0335par0561	I hope so.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0332par0562	Let me tell you about the investments in the 40s. You know we built all the wastewater and advanced biodegradation facilities in the 40s. As a result, I'd like to thank all of you, all of you, the Regents. I wish this budget to be a blessing, I hope it brings blessings. May all of you be blessed with peace, happiness, and happiness. Thank you all very much, thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0336par0567	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ilıcalı and Mr. Godkulu have demands for their words according to 60. Mr. Ilıcalı, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0337par0572	Thank you very much, my dear President. Mr. Fakibaba, our Minister of Agriculture, I've received a lot of messages as we speak. My Erzurum farmers here have asked me to thank you for the delay, and they are very pleased. In fact, when a valued proxy asked me a question, I personally phoned and asked if you had done the procedure. They did, thousands, tens of thousands of farmers took advantage of it. We thank you on behalf of the farmers in my district, the farmers in Turkey. As for the configuration, our Prime Minister said he was instructed by the Bank of Agriculture. I warned the farmers about that, too. We thank you personally to our government, to our Prime Minister. Mr. President, thank you very much. Good evening.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0338par0576	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. Congressmans, look, everyone raises their hands now, everyone tells me to promise us a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0339par0578	No, no, we're going to ask questions.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0338par0579	At this rate, it won't be over until this morning, really.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0339par0580	Mr. President, there's a question-and-answer.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0338par0581	So, I promise only one more person from each group, and I'll take it off the table, please... Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0340par0584	Mr. President, thank you. I listened to the presentation of our Minister of Forests and Waterworks, but somewhere down from 10 trillion, we open it up, others open it up. According to 10 trillion budget figures, I don't know what's going on. Is there a problem with the new currency?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0341par0586	$10 million.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0340par0587	Yeah, well, apparently you're not used to the new currency, because I'm asking, how much is it worth? Anyway, there's another side to this... I'm going to tell my mother that I'm going to take the transcripts as well; there's no water, unfortunately, in the former village of Source Street, which is the new name of Kulp district of Diyarbakır. We've taken water all the way to Cyprus, but there's no water in the village, and there's plenty of water, like Kulp, all summer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just saying, for the record.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0342par0591	Mr. Godkulu, you tell him, he'll file a report.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0343par0592	Kölp?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0342par0593	Kulp, yes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0344par0594	Kulp Tree, yes, you haven't been able to get a couple of miles of water there yet.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0342par0595	Okay, thank you. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0345par0598	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, the Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Petting said, national agriculture, strong tomorrow. It's a really nice slogan, but in January 2018, especially our agricultural engineers -- the number of appointments he's worried about and the demands for his appointment -- asked us to bring up the 3,500 transfer request. With 45,000 unemployed agricultural engineers, especially without appointment, without employment, will you do the National Agriculture and Animal Project on paper without agricultural engineers? I'd like him to report specifically. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0346par0601	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. Mr. Bagpipe, please.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0347par0604	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Fakibaba....two questions. Last week, I visited our village brothers and sisters on the rise of sheep deaths in the Paks village of Bitlis Yolan. Possessed by the use of bait, animal breeders reported that it had been happening for the past ten years, that there is still no cure, that authorities are waiting for close attention. The number of animals that died this year is around 150, which is too high for a village, so they want an urgent remedy. My second question is, is it true that Singapore will import live animals? If it's true, then who made this mind-boggling decision? Is it right to take a living animal from a geography whose climate, geography, and nature do not suit us at all? How much more research are we going to do through trial error? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0348par0608	Thank you. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, Mr. Deniz Depboylı is now a member of the Council of Aydın on behalf of individuals. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0349par0661	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the budget bill we discussed. Before I begin my speech, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear MPs, the Nine Light, our doctrine as the National Movement Party, is a valuable teaching of our fatherland, our nation, our country, our state, to be protected, to be strengthened, to be exalted, and to find the value it deserves at the level of sovereign countries. Nine Light doctrines are science and one is village. They're both our topic today, but I'd like to start with science. According to our principles, we consider it our primary duty to give our children the best educational opportunities by considering their potential to advance in knowledge, and we always hope that this will be so. Unfortunately, there are many problems with the current system, and we're worried that our highly gifted children are leaving our country because of the resources offered to them by different countries. We know there's a lot of problems with our educational system, but in addition to that, mistakes and shortcomings in science and technology work are increasing brain drainage. Our highly skilled children are unfortunately undetectable and unappreciated within the existing system. I want to talk to you about a few mistakes that TÜBITAK has made, and I want to give you an example or two: I don't know if you remember Ilayda Shamilgil. He developed a system that could measure the water ratio in liquids by magnets and presented it to TÜBITAK, but failed to make it to the final. After that, he became the 1st in Ilayda at the Nobel Prize in Physics in Poland and received an offer from NASA. Unfortunately, we lost in the second grade to take part in the NASA project on Mars. Again, a recent example is that high school students Mehmet Can Dursun and Irfan Efe Boztepe developed a band-aid consisting of crabs and shrimp shells as a solution to the late recovery of open wounds seen in diabetes. TÜBİTAK did not accept this project, but in the United States, the project participated in the inter-high-school Genius Olympics; among the 54 countries, 2.450 were elected 1st. These kids got scholarships from that government again. Mehmet Türker -- you may remember this -- is now 27 years old; he produced glasses that were electronically commanded by head movements for disabled people without arms, but was rejected by TÜBITAK again. The project was adopted by disabled associations in 13 countries, such as Britain and America, and the production of this project began in China. I can give you many more names from here, I don't know your name, I don't remember your name. The projects that were chosen when those projects entered the competition were also valuable, but something's wrong, we're losing these kids. Again, we have to take precautions. We need to discover children who are talented, creative, and willing to learn, give them what they deserve, pay attention. Or other countries can give our children more than the care we give them, more than they deserve. We need to restructure the education system. We need to identify our gifted children and develop proper programs for them. Again, it is also vital that our children's work be crowned by the careful financing of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, strengthening their resources and resources. Dear MPs, I would like to address the problems of Aydın, my constituency district, with the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs being discussed today. Mr. Minister of the Forest, you have a project to reform the crazy olive trees, and this project is in effect. I wonder why there is no Aydın province in this project. Because the number of olive trees -- we got this information from official institutions -- 22 million 201,194, is 13 percent across Turkey. The number of crazy olive trees in Aydin is 2 million 324, 978, and the proportion of olive trees across Turkey is 1 in a quarter. That's what we get from the official agencies. We're looking at the project, the cities with much fewer olive trees are on the project, but there's no Aydın, I'm curious. Again, there was a project in Aydýl about reforming and vaccinating the peanut trees you used earlier. It was a very valuable project, a beautiful result. We also demand the same project for fig trees: You know, the best figs in the world are made in Aydin. There were only six companies exporting figs in 2002, which was 108 in 2017. When you produce the world's best figs, of course, there's too much demand, there's an international demand for figs, and there's enough of that right now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a little more time?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0350par0674	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0349par0675	Thank you. Of course, demand is high, but to keep up with them, fig production has to be supported. We have a suggestion about that. You know, the best fig grows about 600 to 800 meters high. There are machisms in our mountain ranges. If the fig plant were to be planted in these machisms, the maintenance and production of these fig trees were to be handed over to our villagers, and both our villagers would be happy, if the country would win, and the land would be happy, too, I think. Again, the cleansing of the Menderes River is a serious problem. This does not concern Aydın, but it concerns all the provinces of Menderes. Again, I would like to ask that the community, the Enlightenment, be informed of the damage done by geothermal plants to water, to soil, to agriculture. I hereby ask that your budget be well-funded, and that our Enlightenment may receive its share of the budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit05spe0351par0681	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0351par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. In the 20-minute question-answer process, lawmakers will use the ten minutes remaining, and the ministers will use the remaining ten minutes. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0352par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology: Your Ministry's Key magazine table -- the GDP of our country's research development costs -- has not changed in 2011-2015, so we're in the last row, Mr. Secretary. What you're bragging about, the partial increase in our internal RD spending, is far, far below the level of competition with the world's developed countries. The uncertainty, the constraint of the freedom environment, the fear of legal insecurity, the quality of human resources and, in particular, our scientists are quickly moving abroad. How do we get to the level of developed countries when that's the case? I'd also like to ask our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting: Istanbul Silivri, my constituency district, has a 173,000 square metre farmland that has been developed by Istanbul Metropolitan and has been allowed to build 12 floors. How long are you going to stand by as the Ministry for concrete over the fertile farmland, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0353par0010	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0354par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Kirazlı in Çanakkale, the Canadian Alamos Gold Company has been known to conduct gold mines by the East Biga Mining Company. Treecuts for gold mining in the region cause intense reactions from locals and environmentalists. I ask the Minister: How many gold mining businesses are there in Turkey? How many of these were built in the Kaz Mountains? Is it true that the Alamos Gold claim that 150,000 trees will be cut down for the mine to run? Is it true that the company's registration area is all within the woods? How will the pollution of the gold mine be prevented in the Kaz Mountains and the Atichisar Dam? How many regions have the Alamos Gold been licensed to conduct gold mining in Turkey? Was Alamos Gold replaced by a charitable businessman today? How many mining plants and thermal plants are there now in the Kaz Mountains?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0353par0013	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0355par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of the Forest is, you tell him the number of trees you've planted, and tell him what you've cut down, which is more? When will the Crossbow Pinebel Pond and Watering Construction begin and end? Is there any water source sold from Turkey to Israel? If so, what source is it, and how much is it sold for? Mr. Minister of Agriculture, in 2018, how many agricultural engineers, how many vets will you appoint? When are we going to develop our hybrid seeds, our breed of livestock? What are foods that we import from Israel in agriculture? Do you intend to limit or ban imports of these products after the crisis? Your support for the beekeepers has been the same for three years. We are the world's second place in beekeeping, and it is imperative that we maintain the beekeepers. Mr. Secretary of Science and Technology, when do we get national software? When do we get our own social media, our own Google, from the social media of the world? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0356par0019	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0357par0020	The district of Afyonkarahisar Province, Şuhut district of Balçıkhisar village, has not been promised for two years, but the creek is in a mess. Again, why was Balıkhisar's infrastructure and river reform not completed by 35 per cent? In 2018, we would like a word from our neighbor, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, to complete them. Again, in the seventh year, all seven years of life insurance premiums were cut from the farmer's seven-year-old agricultural loan in 2010. In the seventh year, when the farmer took an agricultural loan, no cut notice was issued for the life insurance premium, and there were no interruptions for six years, the reduction in debt would have been a victim to the farmer's loss; will it be restored?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0356par0022	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0358par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of Agriculture: Mr. Minister -- for our farmer to farm under such difficult conditions -- you know when are you going to start giving our farmer the gas right now, to compete with the farmers in Europe, especially with the farmers in Europe, without the ETV and without VAT? Now, I have two questions for our Minister of the Forest. Mr. Minister of Forest, when you visited our village of Uçe Eşme, you promised to dam the villages of Konak and Narlı. I just got a call from the villagers, and when do you plan to build this dam? Second question: You know Mt. Murat, Mt. Murat, and Kütahya. A drill has been conducted by Anadolu Export Mining Industries in Gediz district of Kütahya. About 2,500 forest trees, pine trees, were cut down. Do you know anything about this?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0359par0027	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0360par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister of Agriculture: When will cheap diesel be promised to the farmer? We didn't get an answer during your speech. When will cheap fertilizer, cheap bait be served? Since when does Turkey import hay from abroad and meat from abroad, and how long will it last? In 2002, the farmer could sell 3 kilos of wheat and buy 1 litre of diesel, which is now selling 6 kilos of wheat and buying 1 litre of diesel; why not consider that in the evaluations? Are the agricultural policies of 2002 to 2017 wrong? Why is Turkey's agricultural problem unresolved, we still import meat, we import bait; we can't solve the problem of farmers, livestock? I'd like your opinion on that. My next question is to the Minister of the Forest: we've opened 500 or so dams. How many of these dams did the state of the Republic of Turkey make, how many made private sectors and foreign capital? When do you plan to open the dams in Mersin? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0361par0032	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0362par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: We can't even find water to drink, let alone water in Adıyaman, surrounded by water on three sides. 1) Why can't Adıyaman counties solve the water problem they now experience every season in the summer months before? 2) Do you have efforts to resolve the water problem of Adıyaman's Kahta district and villages, and what are these studies? 3) Are you aware of the results of water analysis by Adıyaman Public Health Directorate in Kahta district in July? 4) Is it true that claims in the press that coliform bacteria parameters are not appropriate? 5) There has been a trial between the public and the firm that received the tender for HES, which was scheduled to be held on Kabat Tea, and several times there have been fights, and what is the final state of this controversial HESE? Who or who allows the firm's work before the trial is finalized?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0363par0040	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0364par0041	Mr. Secretary, the immediate implementation of refinery, petrochemistry facilities, oil and gas storage facilities, ports and shipyard projects would be a thermomotival force for the country's economy, not only for the country's people, but also for the country's economy, which could not be invested because of problems in publicisation since 2007, especially for the province of Adana. There's not yet been a place for these investments that we've been looking forward to for years. ▪ Location selection has been made and studies continue. There is no concrete step in response to explanations. Furthermore, over the past ten years, investments have become widely believed to be blocked. Is there any progress on the allocation for investments to take place? A study must be carried out in Çukurova region, where unemployment is yogurt, to pave the way for investment and employment. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0363par0043	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0365par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks is that in Hajjde, Sheikkoyun, Ağdirhasan villages were being watered after 2009 but now the irrigation infrastructure has collapsed. The Ladik Fındıcak Dam will be completed if the watering sites of Mazlumoglu, Şehlı, Aktaş, Lakebayaz villages are now two kilometers more watered down, their land will be watered. On the other hand, Ladik Deepness Dam, Çamlıköy, Budakdere, Kirazpınar, Oymapınar, Mold, Kargük, Kayacık, Mürsel, Upper Yavucık, Kospınar villages are in the watering of the Deepöz Dam. On the other hand, the village of Vezirköpru Dam is not watered; Bafra is not completed by 40 percent of the plains in Wednesday's watering areas.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0366par0050	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0367par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Minister of Agriculture: according to 2002, diesel, fertilizer, irrigation increased between 300 and 400 percent. How are you going to take care of the farmers? As a doctor, I planted chickpeas last year, and I lost 50%. I can see why the citizen didn't go to the field. Do you have any precautions? Nar, 65 cents in the field, $6.5 in the market, neither producer nor consumer is satisfied. Will you take the necessary precautions? 45,000 agricultural engineers are unemployed, as are food engineers and veterinarians. Let's take advantage of these grown-ups. Mr. Secretary, do you have any news for our young people for 2018? Muğla-Milas is a very important district of olives, 10 per cent of Turkey's olive production is here. But the support for olive oil is insufficient. And the titty olives of our territory...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0368par0057	Mr. Ministers, who will speak first? Here you go, Mr. Ozlu. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, as far as I can get from my notes, I'm going to answer them in writing, and I'm going to answer the others in writing. The first question was from our deputy, the Libre Özdemir. Of course, the RD spending is low, Mrs. Jezebel. We know this, but during the EC PARTY, the share increased by 100 per cent, from 0.5 per cent to 1 per cent. So we want this to go up even further. In particular, we have a 3 percent target in RD spending. We have a plan for the private sector to do 2% of this percentage, and for the state to do 11%. How do we get to that? We're going to get that by working, by increasing the number of our RD centers, which is a serious increase in the number of RD centers. I just gave you the numbers. In a very short time, the number of R&D and design centres in Turkey will be 1,000. We aim to give them a deeper quality over the next year. We'll work on it. Of course, we're not saying that our RD spending is enough; we're going to increase it. The other thing was about Ceyhan Industries. Now, there's been a trial in this area for many years. Local governments are in for a mistrial, against publicisation. We've come to the final stage of these cases, hopefully at the end of this year, and we're going to go to a petrochemistry-based, petrochemical-industrial construction here from next year. You know, in industrial areas, property is the state's infrastructure, the state's doing it; the investor makes his investment. So we care deeply about Ceyhan Industries. This area covers about 1,300 hectares. Our primary project is in the process of completing court proceedings. There was a question about other issues, about these RD expenditures, or rather the share of high-tech products. Now, actually, it's just that if we look at high-tech, it's wrong to evaluate, we actually have to look at addition. In all, low-tech, low-low technology, medium-high and high-tech. Now, there's an increase in the share of medium-high and high-tech products, there's a significant increase, and there's a significant decrease in the overall share of low-low and low-low-tech products. These numbers have increased from 2002 to now, the share of low-tech products has dropped 29 percent, low-low and medium-low, so when we get the total, their share has increased by 12 percent, the middle-high-level, and the share of high-tech products has increased by 31%. Here you go, Mr. Fakibaba. Now, two of our dear friends, Desire Erdem and Mr. Iron, have questions about agricultural engineers. As I was saying earlier, I need to stress specifically that this is with a team, not only with the Department of Agriculture staff or with a minister, but with our agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians and technicians, when I say that we are going to reduce the mortality rates, we are going to move from imports to exports. Everywhere I go, I have absolutely and certainly have 81 universities -- thank God, we have colleges everywhere we go -- without taking our college teachers, the dean of food engineering faculty, sir, the dean of veterinary medicine and the dean of agriculture engineers -- because they're my closest colleagues. At a meeting in Ardahan, I said: "Friends, this country is ours. Together... we have very valuable teachers. How many people are there? I said, 60 people. Well, do you ever graduate vets without vaccinating? So let's agree that we have a great lab. And we're going to embezzle friends. So, whatever animals there are, whatever animals there are in the village, we're going to embezzle them, but we're going to start with colleges. When colleges aren't enough, then... In 2017, along with our subsidiaries, we brought our 3,500 agricultural engineer friends into our institution. We feel the same way in 2018, according to our own budget, but we know that we will not succeed in this work without friends of agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians. I mean, I told you, family medicine is, like, family medicine, and, honestly, the animal is very important to me, and I mean it's very important to us, and it's very important to him. His low mortality is one of the most important criteria to show our success rate. In this context, God willing, hopefully, how are these friends... because we're giving field coordination in the Ministry of Agriculture, just like the Ministry of Health. From now on, we'll divide it into 30 locations, and where we're going, those friends will serve on our behalf. In that case, hopefully we'll do this thing. Our bagpiped friend asked me to import animals from Singapur. I mean, this is the first I've heard of it. So...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0369par0072	What about the farmer's diesel, Minister? GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY SEARCH MACHINE FAKIBABA (Shanluurfa), sir?
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0368par0074	You go ahead, Mr. Secretary. There's no sound. Go ahead, you're running out of time. From Singapore, I didn't go to Singapore, but from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria is pushing too hard, is it true? Do you know what these people want from us? What Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bulgaria want from us is 15 days or 20 days of meat. I mean, of course, when you leave, you're big brothers. For example, a friend of mine said, "Can you explain to me the situation of importing Turkish-Israeli exports?" Mr. Erdogan asked me that question again. Look, I'm telling you: between 2002-2016, our agricultural exports were 2,365 million; 2,365 million. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, your time is up, Mr. Eroglu, and you can answer in writing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0370par0082	Yes, thank you. If I could just explain, Mr. President, I'm so sorry. 2,365 million and our imports are 351 million. Look, 351 million.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0371par0085	To the farmer, without the gas, without the VAT... Guys, I'm giving you numbers here, if you don't believe me.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0372par0087	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0373par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. All asked about the gold mine. For one thing, we don't allow any mining activity in the Kazdak National Park area. These permits are outside the Kazdag National Park, outside the drinking water basin. In particular, Çanakkale was granted two separate permits in the name of East Biga Mining. It was allowed in about 154 hectares. Bigadic was also allowed 188 hectares of land.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0374par0090	It's been given, Mr. Secretary. How many trees will be cut down, and I'll give you the information on them later. The company, called Anadolu Export, was also given permission to mine gold. This is a new permit in 4.8 hectares.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0375par0093	Mr. Secretary, we're not going to mine there, we're not going to run it.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0376par0094	Other than that, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you the rest in writing. You asked about the muğla, Mr. Erdogan, about Kavalıdere. But we built many dams in Mugla, and before that, there were no proper dams. Akgedik, Ridge Dam, Dalaman Akköru Dam, Deep Dam, these are finished, and there are seven of them built. Seki, Fethiye, Arpacık, Armat, Kavalıdere Çamlıbel Dam, Kavalıdere Menteshe Dam, Menteşe Kozaç Dam, Yatınköy Dam, these are in construction. We also finished two of the ponds; and there were two of them that were made complete. At the construction stage, Kavalıdere Tekbolu Lake and Ula Akarcadere 2 Pond and Ula Kölük Lake are now in construction phase. The contract for the Pinebel Pond, which you asked about, was made on August 4th, and hopefully we'll finish it soon. In particular, Mr. Burcu Koksal, my fellow citizens, of course, did you know that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, a little bit... quickly, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0377par0099	Mr. Secretary, normally you're out of time, so I'll give you one minute to collect. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0376par0101	Mr. Burcu Koksal, my dear fellowman, we've reformed the river about Balıkhisar, but there are some missing parts -- we've even built a dam there -- we'll finish that part in 2018.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0378par0102	Let's complete the infrastructure, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0376par0103	Sir, other than that, you've finished 508 dams by Mr. Simsek. We didn't include that the private sector has completely finished, the state has finished. The dams the private sector has built-instruction and...
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0379par0104	Mr. Secretary, you're calling the ponds a baraj.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0376par0105	Sir, there's no such thing, there's no such thing. I'm sorry, are you going to teach a man who builds the most dams, ponds and dams in the world? I'm sorry, it's a little disrespectful. Now, the pond is up to 30 meters, and after 30 meters, it's taken as a dam, that's the sum of it. That's what we're limiting it to. This is the dam, the pond, the other one. If you don't know that, find out.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0380par0108	Mr. Secretary, you will answer the rest in writing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0376par0109	I'll answer the rest of the questions in writing.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0380par0110	Thank you. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0381par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a little correction. Mr. Minister of Industry has just said that the national income rate of AR-Ge expenditures is above 1. Now, here, of course, we need to talk about that with the new national revenue series, Mr. Secretary. In 2015, 0.88 announced this in November 17, 0.94. The rate of R&amp;D spending is below 1.00, so there's not much improvement here. Besides, I don't think it's right to brag about spending. We need to look at the results, we're doing these RD spending, we need to look at what we're adding to the country. With your permission, Mr. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs entered our Minister's investment program in 2015 -- this is the Samsun Ladik Village Ibi Watering Project -- when I was Deputy Secretary of Development. It's been about three years, and there's no distance there. A 60-acre area will be watered here, where the Basin, Kavak, Ladik, will bring a serious yield. We'd like to ask you to grant us a grant and make some progress on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-19sit06spe0382par0118	Thank you, Mr. Master. 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2016 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account RELATIONSHIP SURVOLUTION [[Continue]] 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account Members of lawmakers, I will now have the budget, which is now in the eighth round in order, and I will have it read separately and vote on the transfer of certain accounts into the chapters. I submit to your votes that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology for the year 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of the budget: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 26) INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 4.933.467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2.741.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 939.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 856.204,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 40,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 5,793,391.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2016 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.612.652.144.50 Budget Expenses 4,467,231,333,90 Canceled Fund 145,420,810,60 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 116,520,237,30 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.30) THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2018 01 General Public Service 31,351.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,281,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,986,193,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 2.020.825,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.545,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,920,726,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 71,554,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collected 26,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2.020.825,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2016 will be transferred to the specific chapters of the central management account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 1,273,561,512,39 Budget Expenses 789.686.468.79 Canceled Fund 482.009.836,21 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1,865,207,39 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 1,231,898,000,00 Collection 982.734.396.44 Ret and returns 3.389,57 Net Collection 982.731.006.87 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2016 has been adopted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.22) Turkish STANTARTS INSTITUTION 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 46.336,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.050.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 313,017,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 363,403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 354,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 34,013,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 388,543.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Institute of Standards adopted parts of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Institute of Turkish Standards shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 537,850.000.00 Budget Expenses 440.913.915.38 Cancelled Fund 96,936,084,62 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 318.722,000.00 Collection 471,497,052.06 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Institute of Standards was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute will take part in the central management account of 2016: those who do not accept... those who do not. 40.24) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Patent Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 74,212,700,00 Budget Expenses 67.344.899.84 Cancelled Grant 6,867,800,16 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 150,988,000.00 Collection 179,772,866,74 Ret and Returns 4.734.171.54 Net Collection 175.038.695.20 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Patent Institute was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute for Scientific and Technological Research shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.08) THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY CLEARS AND TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 3.131.087,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 789.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 132.452,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 3.265.696,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 216.067,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 2,962.798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 86,831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3.265.696,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, I'd like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account for 2016: those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 3.870.363.332.83 Budget Expenses 3.250.718.839.59 Cancelled Fund 619,644,493,24 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 30,542,898,27 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 2,653,216,000.00 Collection 3.223,756,783,98 Rejections 195,404,36 Net Collection 3.223,561,379,62 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency has been adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.09) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 16.035,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 16.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 43.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 16,384,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 148,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 16.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences take part in the central management account of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 15.491.000.00 Budget Expenses 12.919.028.25 Canceled Fund 2.571.971.75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 14.918,000.00 Collection 11.589.283,14 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.24) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 20.257,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 58,623.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 80.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 137.492,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 68.022,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 205,514,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Turkish Patent and Brand Association. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 154,673,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.256,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 21.241.580.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 4,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 203.386,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 49,048,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 16.730.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 21.676.673,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting in 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 17.314.899.377.81 Budget Expenses 16,821,952,385,12 Cancelled Fund 492,946,992.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 139,508,685,81 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2016. I'd like to submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulator will be transferred to the central management budget of 2018, those who don't accept... are accepted. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 65,970.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 89,030.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 155,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 150,730.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 155,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 136,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 129.832.098,18 Canceled Fund 6,167,901,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 125,000,000.00 Collection 130.245.434.90 Ret and Returns 413,336,72 Net Collection 129.832.098,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management account in 2016. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2018... Those who don't... Sustained. 33) ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1) The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 14.104,729.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.210.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 405,562,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 208.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 14.723.756,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks in 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of the year be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Terms (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 13.847.238.085.64 Budget Expenses 13.367.672.900.99 Canceled Fund 479,565,184,65 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 44,402,085,64 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs of 2016 was adopted into the section of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 will be transferred to the General Directorate of the Forest: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.17) ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1) Forest General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 22.039,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 3,169,267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 3.191,729.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,242,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,560,729000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 386.630.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3,190,729000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2018, part of the central management budget was adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 3.247.330.754.00 Budget Expenses 3.032.826.970.60 Canceled Fund 213,060,873,78 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.442.909.62 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 2.862.021.000.00 Collection 3.114.837.581.09 Ret and Returns 2,112,786,95 Net Collection 3.112,724,794,14 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Administration account of 2016 has been adopted as part of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 of State Water Affairs will be transferred into the sections of the Central Management budget: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.57) ACTIVITY OF SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 102,607,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 845,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 58,187,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 11.326.426,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 31.129,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,452.491.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1.095,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 12,972,780.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 184,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 12:489.780.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 286.100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Acquisitions 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 12,962,780,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departments of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the State Department of Water Affairs. State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the sections of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 12.435.463.508.66 Budget Expenses 12:021,490,217,41 Canceled Grant 243,117,877,07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 372.691.109.98 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 10.908.235,000.00 Collection 10.988.247.364,17 Ret and Returns 3.351.899.66 Net Collection 10.984.895.464.51 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Water Affairs General Directorate of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2018, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 33.75) METEOROLOGY GENIFER 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 331,484,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 243,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 337.477,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Meteorology was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account of 2016, those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 294.530.130.66 Budget Expenses 248,866,105,17 Cancelled Fund 45,664.025,49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 22.005.939.67 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Directorate of Meteorology of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute will be transferred to the central management budget in 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.58) ENGLISH INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2018 03 Public Order and Security Services 350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 4,338,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 4.688,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,568,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4,688,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Turkish Water Institute. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute will take part in the central management account of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.129.000.00 Budget Expenses 3,664.811.34 Canceled Fund 1,464,188,66 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 5.129,000.00 Collection 3.621.317.02 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Water Institute was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2016. So, the budgets and certain accounts of the companies involved in the eighth round have been accepted, and I wish them well. Congressmans, the eighth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 20, 2017) to discuss the provisions of the Central Management Budget Law, respectively, with the budget and precise accounts of the institutions. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
