tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıç, who asked about recent events in the mosque. Mr. Dalkülç, please.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President and the esteemed MPs, I salute the beautiful people of Anatolia, under the roof of the Grand Assembly, with love, respect, respect, love, compassion, tolerance, solidarity, and sharing, and suffering, in their souls, in their souls, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts, in their hearts. Today, I would like to share my feelings about Jerusalem, which is the common denominator of every color and tone of Anatolia, our common cause and our love of exile. The whole world knows that no matter what its ideology, for every one of the people of Asia Minor, Jerusalem is starboard, sacred. All Muslims, including our Palestinian brothers and the Middle East, even humanity, are looking at the Great National Assembly of Turkey and Turkey. Everyone knows that the foundation of Istanbul's conquest is the conquest of Jerusalem. Before Jerusalem was conquered, Istanbul could never be conquered. There was a fate between Jerusalem and Istanbul yesterday, and there is fate today, and there will be tomorrow. For him, if Jerusalem is captured, Istanbul will weep. To see this, it is imperative that you look into the heart of Istanbul, not into the eyes of Anatolia. Jerusalem is the apple of our eye. All humans, either our spouse or our brother in religion, who is always with the oppressed and the victim, are members of the good civilization, both of Jerusalem and of all our sacred values, freedom of faith, freedom of conscience, and in this context, wherever there is injustice, wherever there is injustice, we will continue to be against it in our hearts and in every speck. It's one of the most basic qualities of this grand coven. When it comes to our common denominators, such as Jerusalem, we will act together in the common and powerful manner that will give the whole world their enthusiasm for colonial and tyrannical ambitions. It is an Islamic city and a founding city for Muslims who consider all prophets holy and embrace them, Jerusalem. As you know, Allah has conferred His grace upon the prophets to pray in it. For centuries, Jerusalem's people have been subjected to all kinds of oppression, persecution, torture, and murder. These peoples have lived in the protection of Muslims, the freedom of faith, the peace, the prosperity, the taste of justice. Emevi, Abbasi, Ayyubi, Memluklı, and Ottoman times were witnesses after the conquest of Jerusalem by Hazreti Omar of the caliphs. During the Ottoman era, Jerusalem preserved its spiritual value and power in its rightful place. The importance of Jerusalem and its freedoms has reached the extreme. In addition to his religious position, the Ottomans have established headquarters here, built walls, and given every service and support to this holy city because of the Muslim talks here. The Ottomans entered Jerusalem in peaceful ways, without bloodshed, like Hazreti Omar and Selahattin Ayyubi. This is our view of Jerusalem. Our view of Jerusalem is never based on geographical foundations; we have cultural and spiritual grounds, human and historical inspiration. The sacred place against Jerusalem and the Masjid-i Aksa is the harem, the home of eman, the safe place that enters here. As in the past centuries of Islam, all the peoples of Jerusalem lived together in peace and peace, regardless of their beliefs, whether Jewish or Christian, and their sects, and Jerusalem made peace for all mankind. Today's occupation changes nothing from Jerusalem's position and its value. Because in the eyes of the Islamic community, a religious adjective, a center of faith, a center of worship, our indispensable love, will continue to be our cause. I just want to say that no king or president has the right to give up one inch of this place. The glory of Jerusalem is our glory. Jerusalem is the cradle of our history of faith, of faith and civilization. Since its establishment, the al-Masjid al-Aqsa is an Islamic sanctuary and will remain so until the Day of Resurrection. We will never be able to accept the fulfillment of other desires over Jerusalem. Jerusalem is one of the spiritual capitals of Muslims. On this occasion, I ask the people of the Censab to preserve the mosque from the tyranny of the oppressors. I salute Jerusalem, its people, and its honored sentries, and its oppressed Palestinian people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order to preserve the Masjid al-Aqsa, and all the land of Islam, I pray that my Lord will not spare the Muslims their sense of responsibility, their help, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Baki Simsek, who wants to speak about the problems of the Yörüks. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of the Yörüks. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, go and see the Toros Mountains. If you see one tent there and there's smoke in that tent, know very well that no force or power in this world can defeat Turk. It has been a thousand years since Osman Yüksel Serdentı had set foot in his land. It has been nearly a thousand years since the Yörek Turkmen communities had set foot in Anatolia, which had migrated from Central Asia. A thousand years of mansions, a thousand years of dorms, a thousand years of motion, the lives of the Toros Yörüks. They have a life full of camels, horses, donkeys. Maybe that's exactly what makes their lives attractive. Nature, animals, and little stuff. They migrate for a year -- as they say -- twelve months a year, two great migrations. One is made from plateau to coast, the other from coast to coast in spring. Throughout these migrations, there are day-to-day migrations. They call the places where they migrated. So once a day, they migrate to the floor, which is the longest 10 kilometers long. Let Erisin melt the mountains, Melt down and cover the gray plain. Let the Turkmen gentleman walk to the plateau, Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, This verse of the Karacaoglan describes the spring migration of Yörk's life. Many of the Yörük-Türkmen tribes, also have different properties in Mersin, live on the plateaus of Mersin. In an interview with a Sarikelçilı, an investigative writer named Nezihe Araz. Our Sarkeçeli Yörüklı says: "But, sister, no matter how miserable or shameful, there is no stopping the speech, there is no stopping the migration. It's in his nature. Just as no one can stop the season from turning its face from winter to summer, no one can resist the longing of Yörük to walk into the trunk of the trees with spring, unless no one can stand in the way of the Creator. He takes her by the bow, like the blood hold. Still in the mountains of Toros, as Uncle Nuri the Great said, he yearns for the land, as he held blood with the spring. However, the land of Mersin, the Yellow Yaylam, is part of the country's home. Now, on those huge plateaus, the lands are rarely found. The population culture continues to be corrupt. Troubles are getting worse every day. Our populations suffer greatly in their migration routes, along with dams and changing routes, concerning the decline of meadows and grasslands. It's about education... because in September, in October, the Yurks come down from the plateaus to the beach, and the schools are open, and in April they're back on the road. Our Ministry of National Education needs to be trained at its place. They need to be properly trained where the population lives, if necessary, in prefabricated structures or containers. There are many local children who have become teachers who can do this. Animal head support must be increased. The camel, part of the local culture, remained in only three or four families. There are only three or four families who migrate with camels on all the shores from Mersin to Antalya. The support of these... because the camel is too expensive, many of the Yörüks can't afford it. The weaving culture is disappearing. From the tents of the hair to the rug where they lay down, and from their saddlebags to their sacks, they replaced the tents of the Yarks, where they had taken their own hair, and where they had taken their hair. A small house where they stay for a long time in winter, but I've told Mr. Development Minister over and over again, and he promised he'd put it on the agenda, but at least the Yurks can live in a place where they can stay for a long time, where they can drink electricity, water, clean water. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Ministry of Development must prepare projects. Where they cross these routes, they have serious problems with Mukhtars, skimpers, and forest rangers, and we need to take precautions on that. A generation will grow that doesn't know the taste and smell of butter, butter, or sinkhole cheese unless it's adopted. We'll continue to drink buttermilk with chemicals in milk instead of a yoghurt buttermilk. We now see Afghan and Syrian shepherds in the Toros. At least a lamp can be provided with both solar energy and hot water with solar panels to run their televisions. We expect support from all our ministries.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0005par0042	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0004par0043	As a result, it must be done before it's too late for this ancient culture, which will disappear in front of us every year, a little more and maybe three or five years later. I'm saying it would be our greatest shame to go out to the Toros to see our essence from the Yurk museums, to try to live with feasts and empty associations. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you. Now, the third non-responsive statement is the following of the MP Fatma Kaplan Kurazpınar, who wants to speak about the problems of the villages of Pelitli and Kirazpınar in the district of Gebze. Here you go, Mr. Liberty.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0006par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath to pass on the problems of our people who have been forced out of their homes to you. I salute your high council, our fellow citizens who follow us, and our fellow citizens of Kopeelli. There have been some setbacks in the Pelitli and Kirazpınar neighborhoods of Gebze County, which has deserved to be a province for years, but have not been taken a step by the government. The most striking of all is what happened in Kirazpinar neighborhood. People from the neighborhood are resisting the tyranny of Gebze City Hall, which, despite the decision to stop the execution, tries to seize three cents in legal property. Residents are being unjustly victimized by attempts to be seized under their homes as part of the real estate housing project, how is that? Gebze Real Estates 3rd, planned by Real Estate and TOKI. The construction of our citizens' homes in the region's zoning, ordnance, property for the Etap Project has been cancelled and has been declared a slum prevention zone. Unfortunately, over 2,000 liras of value have already been paid 800 lira, while the apartments in the same area are still being sold for $400,000. The citizens, of course, did not normally agree to this injustice, they refused to accept it. As a result, the municipality of Gebze moved these plots into less valuable areas and increased the victims of citizens by a double increase. As a result of the citizens' application, the administrative court decided to stop the execution in favour of our citizen and delivered it to the parties. Despite this decision to stop, Gebze City sent a notice to the Kirazpınars last week that they would empty their homes and destroy their homes. Then the tools of destruction went to destroy people's homes. He wanted to stop the unlawful destruction of the citizens' homes, and unfortunately, bad events took place during the resistance. The imam who read the flood from the mosque was taken into custody; the older uncles, the younger children, were dragged to the ground, dear friends. Unfortunately, to make the rich happy, women were beaten, handcuffed. And look at these pictures -- images of how our old people were unfortunately victimized by the city, how they were dragged into places. Finally, the citizen decided to stop the destruction again from being in court. I've been there, I've spoken to the citizen, and I'm amazed at what the citizen has to say. The mayor said the following words to the citizen: "The people of Kirazpınar are like sheep. This is not a place to seek justice, I will wash it if I have to, and I will even give my government vehicle to carry the rubble. We don't agree that the mayors of the city, who flip 40 times for the election, when they sit on the couch, will treat the people like terrorists, face the people like gas, batla, TOMA, and the citizens as soldiers. Another neighborhood in Gebze County with problems is one of our most troubled neighborhoods in the area of Pelitli, the nearest and most populated neighborhood in the district and the Gebze County Cemetery, although it is one of our most troubled neighborhoods in the service phase. Although there is natural gas in all the neighborhoods, we don't have Pelitli neighborhoods, no health clinics, no pharmacies, no sporting grounds for residents of Pelitli neighborhoods, no infrastructure, no construction. But in many places near Pelitli neighborhoods, and smaller than Balçuk, Mollafenari, and Fridayköy, all these services have been done, all these services have been taken away. Everyone's got it, but none for the residents of Pelitli County. Well, why don't you? Gebze is being punished by the municipality for choosing no in the referendum, so unfortunately they are not sent to Pelitli. He has all kinds of services in neighboring neighborhoods, but not in the largest, largest neighborhood in Gebze. So, if you don't support us, we won't serve you. Another way to say it and explain it, dear friends. This cruelty must be ended immediately. I'm going to be a close follower of both our neighborhoods, especially the municipality of Gebze. I will not stop following until justice has been served in Kirazpinar neighborhood and the municipal services of the inhabitants of Pelitite have their rights. It must not be forgotten that the oppressors will kneel one day, but I say that the oppressed will never bow down, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0007par0056	Yeah, now we're done talking off the agenda. According to the Civil Code, I will make a commitment to the first 15 MPs to enter the system. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a word with the ruling party before the House takes a vacation: you will not silence this country. You'll try to silence the journalist, throw him in the dungeon, he'll come out, and one day he'll give you a lesson in law school, and he'll speak to the world. You're going to try to silence the worker at the head of his machine, you're going to try to silence the peasant, you're going to try to silence the officer, you're going to try to silence the clerk at his desk, you're going to try to silence the young people at his counter, but they're not going to shut up; they're going to give you a lesson in justice, lesson in law, civics, they won't shut up. Furthermore, you will try to silence the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party will never shut up, he will walk from Ankara to İstanbul, he will say, "Hukukuk/, fucking justice" and he will remain in the parliament until morning. In short, no matter what you do, we won't shut up.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0007par0063	Thank you. Mr. Liberty, please.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0009par0066	Those who try to silence the street with the law enforcement of the government are now trying to silence it with the Civil Code, where they are trying to bring the voice of our great Assembly. This Civil Charter will become the TOMA (in parliament) of power. What laws do you want to take out of the House from now on, and if you don't want us to stand up against it, that's why you want to bring in this Civil Code as soon as possible. You choose to impose instead of compromise, whereas Turkey's efforts to eliminate the opposition by converting parliament into a government-approved institution will take it further back. The laws you've held hands with before, the laws you've changed over and over again, the institutions you've established together, the July 15th that followed. No matter what power does, it won't lower our voices, but every sound you try to turn down will come back to you one day as a scream. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0007par0068	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. The price of wheat has been announced too late since the past few years this year. Unfortunately, customs quotas, which facilitated wheat imports, have declined greatly before it was announced. So the price of wheat, which was expected for $1.10, was 94 cents, but the net amount is 87 cents, if there is any wheat left. Because there was no wheat left, the troubled farmer had to give the merchant his wheat for 75 cents. My question to the former Minister of Agriculture, who couldn't find a place in the Cabinet: Again, my question to the new Minister of Agriculture: will he take new measures to support our village and our farmer, or will he, like the former Minister of Agriculture, continue to manipulate our farmer and peasant? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0011par0075	Instead of Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0012par0077	Dear friends, CHAKUR continues to victimize the teamaker. Although its daily tea processing capacity is up to 9,000 tons, it does not reach that capacity with quotas and quotas. So the client has to give his tea to the opportunistic private sector. The tea, which was $2.13, recently had to be sold for $1.75. In the beginning of the second exile, however, we increased the quota. As we discussed a proposal concerning CHAKUR here, Rize MP Hasan Karal said: "In Ramadan the demons are bound, and I do not answer you. When Ramadan is finished, Hasan Karal, the demons are no longer bound. Please answer these questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0011par0079	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0013par0081	Mr. President, thank you. In Parliament, which means where the power is spoken, it lowers the voice of opposition. The necessary parliamentary contribution is being eliminated so that the people's will can be fully achieved. The opposition, the most important element of democracy, is transformed into an ineffective member of the majority of power. At every opportunity, those who talk about national wills silence not only the opposition, but also 80 million of our citizens. Even during the war, non-oppression is being carried out by the AKP's government. We will not surrender democracy to you and to the sovereignty of the nation because it is the nation's unconditionalness.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0011par0083	Mr. Engin instead of Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0014par0085	For the last few centuries, we've been away from books, libraries, pencils. 55 per cent of the population in the Islamic world can't read or write. In OECD countries, the percentage of national income education is 5 per cent, while in Islamic countries, it does not even find 11%. Like every nation in the Islamic world, we take the easy way out, avoid the hard work. Soran grows up as a generation seeking temporary whims instead of questioning a generation. These sentences belong to President Erdogan. How many of the Islamic countries are governed by democracy; in industry, in technology, and in development, they should have added the link between democracy and development. On the one hand, you're going to say this, on the other hand, in democracy, in education, in science, in law, in art, you're going to make every effort to drag our beautiful country into this ancient world. These statements are a clear confession of why the AKP government is in a new recession of our history. Do you need another word?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0011par0086	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0015par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. I visited the village of Kızılca, Bor district of Niğde Province. There is a major environmental problem near the village in the Red Creek, where the wastewater flows from organised industrial decontamination. The open stream requires immediate intervention. While the town of Kızılca was a town and a municipality, the AKP government converted it into a village due to its population. The population is victimised by the smell of the region's cute farming and animal-making settlement. The solution is to move the stream out of the region with closed channels of waste. I've submitted a written question to the concerned minister, and I've given the matter to the governor of Niğde. I want to make it clear once again that the authorities need to resolve the problem as quickly as possible. The people are in great distress because of the negatives that Red Creek has given to the environment. Red Creek must quickly be transformed into a rehabilitated and closed space. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0016par0091	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the AKP came to power, it has signed a series of resolutions that would be incompatible with democracy, and the final link is the attempt to replace Parliamentary Interior. Mr. Ismail Kahraman, who has called for democracy under this roof in the past, who has voiced rightful criticism that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should not be dysfunctional, has, unfortunately, forgotten his words after becoming a ruling deputy, and, in the opposite sense, has taken a stand that has ignored the will of Parliament. Let not those who forget what they say when they are in opposition think that this power is eternal. They have to remember that the MPs they're trying to keep quiet today may fall into their position tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0018par0096	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our Veterans Assembly, is the conscience of Turkey and our nation. Save your conscience from greed. Remorse doesn't heal. The greatest justice is the conscience. Our conscience is the strongest witness in a bad business. Even if the mind is fooled, the conscience is not deceived. What's called the Vicdan, is the feeling that someone is watching over our nation. Man does it not because he wants evil, but because his conscience is weak. The only way to change the color of a nigger is to give white men white hearts. The suffering of Palestine and the Masjid-i Aksa is a manifestation of Zionists' unconscionable conscience and Zionist conscience. When consciences stop, people become monsters. A conscience is the law of the law, the pulse of the mind, a light emotion and a scales of the heart. Anything that doesn't rot in his conscience remains intact.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0020par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. When there is serious unemployment on the agenda of the people in our country, especially when unemployment in college graduates has gone up, choose me as one man, end of terrorism. Although terrorism is still at the top of our country's agenda, although terrorism is being said to be deceived, although terrorism is still at the top of the agenda of our country, it is not able to pay taxes and insurance debt, but has stopped paying taxes and insurance debts, how do I bring bread to the house? When I think about how do I bring the farmer's voice to the opposition, the corn, milk, milk, milk, and the living animal, when it is being met by other countries, while the AKP counts the Turkish farmer and supports the farmers of other countries, while our neighbours are still having zero problems and have become completely problematic, while you've become a problem, you've raised the problem with the Great House of Turkey. The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0021par0108	I'm asking the Prime Minister: The Palestinian Muslim brothers who wanted to worship in the mosque of the Israeli soldiers are being persecuted and prevented from worshipping. Will you also review our political and economic relations regarding Israel, which blocked the meetings of the Palestinian people, who blockaded the mosque of Aksa? What measures do you intend to take regarding the peaceful and free worship of the Palestinian people in their own territory? Or will you only criticize Israel, and will you be content to condemn it? Will you continue to cooperate with Israel again? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0018par0110	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs and the great Turkish Nation. Mr. President, you're busy changing the Civil Code right now. So we say, whether you change the Civil Charter or reduce our talking times here, make sure that we will talk more on the streets, in villages, in cities, in towns, in towns, and we will do our best to tell our citizens more. Changing the Civil Charter will not limit it, so give up this way as soon as possible. Mr. President, before the elections in 2015, the Prime Minister announced in many cities that he would appoint a staff for subcontractors who worked in the districts at the length of the Billboards, on screens. And I say, "O Justice of the AKP, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister, fulfill your promise." Give me thousands of subcontractors working in public. These public contractors...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0024par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. The Lifeguard Tunnel, which connects Artvin to the Black Sea and Hopa, continues as a snake story. This tunnel, which was promised two years in two months, is unfortunately a seven-year period, but is not yet complete. When Prime Minister Artvin arrives, the concerned ministers pass through the relevant tunnel when they arrive at Artvin. And after that, the sheets and sheets were opened to the press, and we're going through the tunnel. They say, unfortunately, the citizens can't take advantage of this tunnel. Just yesterday, four of our citizens, who were just beyond that tunnel -- in divided ways -- were very proud of the government -- gave their lives and lives as a result of a car accident on an undivided road. When are you going to stop this freak? When will the Lifeguard Tunnel end, Artvin awaits this good news. It's been seven years since the tunnel ended in two months. The statements are going on about it. The Artvins are waiting for this tunnel to be finished as soon as possible, waiting for the process to be completed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0025par0122	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0026par0124	Mr. President, geothermal drilling in the village of Gülpınar, Çanakkale Ayvacık district has been launched in olive fields, the only source of livelihood for the people of the region. The locals are worried. Although we have repeatedly asked for information from Çanakkale Governorate and the State Special Administration authorities on the matter, it is customary to acknowledge that these drills, which have been observed since 15 days, have been against me and my other congressman friend. Even though it is known that we will support all renewable energy studies, except in olive fields and without harming nature, why are they being kept in olive groves? I'm waiting for information from the ministry regarding the drilling work at Ayvacık Gülpınar. The region's residents are setting up tents and keeping watch at the site of the drilling work. The concerns of our citizens must be answered. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0027par0127	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0028par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Nuriya and Semih are on the 100th day of the hunger strike, but unfortunately these two young people who have been unjustly expelled, who have put their bodies to hunger for work and honor, have not been able to announce their voices to the power that ruled this country for a hundred and forty days. We are under the roof of this House, thousands of people on social media, in the streets, Nuriye and Semih. We have been trying to preach our voices for months. For two days we've been writing petitions to the new Minister of Justice, saying that we want to visit Nuriya and Semih, but thanks to the Minister, he doesn't even bother to take us in and give us an answer. I'm asking you from here: what scares you enough to prevent MPs from visiting prisons today? But fear doesn't help in the end, just like all fascist regimes, you'll have to answer to justice one day.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0027par0131	And finally, Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0029par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting: just before the start of the wheat harvest, Merzifon County, Küçükçay, Grandçay, Pekmezci, Hacıyakup, Çaybaşı, Kireymir, Apple Way and Demirpınar villages were completely damaged by the hailing of wheat, which was considered a natural disaster. The damage was also determined by the Merzifon subsidiary. As a result of the hailing, the villagers did not obtain wheat income in 2017. Mr. Secretary, we'd like to hear the voice of our villages and ask the villagers to postpone their debt to Agriculture Bank in 2017 and agricultural loans or to pay the wheat prices in cash as part of the Disaster Act. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0030par0137	Mr. Group, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the vice presidents. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0031par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Forest fires continue in various parts of our country. The fire, which started in Bayındır district of İzmir Province on Tuesday afternoon, was not contained on its 3rd day, and as of tonight, it reached the district of Turgutlu, Manisa. As a result of the fire, about 400 of our citizens from the neighborhoods of Kabaçınar and Latvia were evacuated for precaution. Some media organs say that the number is 2,000 people, but that number is wrong. Besides, the fire was contained in the Turgutlu area before it reached these villages. The villages were evacuated in the evenings, just to avoid being affected by smoke, as our citizens began to return to their villages with their animals. We've been very appreciative of the work of the Forest District Department's teams day and night. In addition, all the residents of Kabacınar and Nusaybin support the forest crews in this struggle. In addition, the City of Turgut serves both our teams and residents who are fighting the fire by setting up 1,000 soup kitchens in the morning hours. Although the wind has been turned from morning hours, the danger has been overcome in the Turkutlu, but the fire is not yet fully contained. I hereby say to all citizens affected by the fire, well, may it be better for you, and I wish you the best of luck to the work crews. The judicial dimension of the fight against ▪ continues. What new information has been reached by public indictments and law enforcement agencies... what a violent organization of enemies of the nation and state...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0032par0144	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0031par0145	...shows that we are facing the organization. On the one hand, the leader continues to explain from across the ocean, giving instructions. All these developments show that the remains and crypts of ▪ are still active and active. The fight against ▪ is a matter of national security. The successes of this struggle are of great interest to our state, our nation's unity, the integrity of our country. We believe that judicial and administrative processes are crucial to preventing horse trails from being mixed with dog tracks. First of all, it is our expectation that the judicial proceedings will be completed with great care and that the traitors will be given the punishment they deserve as soon as possible. In the administrative process, crypto hands on the circuit must be identified as chaos players and brought to justice. Justice must not be extinguished, it must not be allowed to be destroyed. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0032par0147	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0033par0150	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs were not taken in Diyarbakır on the third day of the duty of democracy, conscience, justice, and on the third day on the third day of the third day of the Watch of Justice and of our people on the third day, on the grounds of the State of Emergency and Security. Around 3,000 police have been deployed around Ekin Ceren Park, surrounded by about 5,000 barriers and armored vehicles. There are 2 TOMAs and armoured vehicles at about 100 yards, all over the park, and around the park, the TOMA, the scorpion, Ford Ranger, the armored cars are being held. So this is the state's mobilization for a peaceful, democratic, civil act, and the people sitting there are the MPs who are holding this watch, but I don't think the National Assembly cares much about it, but we do care about our people, and this watch will continue with different actions until democracy happens in Turkey. The third trial of the Cumhuriyet daily trial was held yesterday, and I would really advise you to read the defense of journalist Ahmet Şık. It was a journalism lesson. Ahmet Şık's defense was a freedom lesson. It was not just a journalism lesson, but a class of non-profit. I'd like to pass on a piece of his defense to you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0034par0154	Let's turn on the mic, guys...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0033par0155	I will continue to respect the truth more than I do myself, and I will continue to refuse to be part of the ranks of deniers. It's obvious you have to pay a price for that. But don't think it scares us. We are not afraid of any of you, no matter who you are, not me or any of the reporters I'm honored to be friends with. Because we know it's courage that frightens bullies the most. And let the oppressors know that no cruelty can stop the course of history. Ahmet Şık said: I have no guilt to hide behind the flag, no sin to hide behind the religion. Let this really be a lesson to all Turkey; let it be a lesson to all those in Turkey who truly want to express themselves, but who are hiding behind them. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0035par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. First, our hometown, Manisa, was in great danger with a forest fire that started in İzmir Bayındır, spreading rapidly. There has been a major disaster in Bayındır, and in the town of Turgutlu, Manisa, which has come close enough to be evacuated to the south and to the villages of Kabaçınar, and has wiped out the lives of many trees and living creatures in the forest. We express our regret about it. It is said that the fire is now under control, but Manisa has spent a night in her mouth, and so has Izmir Bayin. It is clear that more serious measures must be taken regarding these forest fires. In the Akgedik village of Manisa, the septic pit of houses built by the TOKİKİ. But the construction of a septic pit is extremely disturbing to our villagers. There was a great resistance to this; the police and the villagers faced the resistance at Akgedik neighbourhood. The municipality of Manisa, lawmakers from all the parties of the province, have made an effort, but unfortunately, the city of Yunumre, in order not to wait for a decision to stop a two-day-long execution -- just as in the massacre of Yırca -- took advantage of law enforcement and the power of the police, and attacked the villagers, and made it very uncomfortable, and I want to make it clear that we are condemning it. Cumhuriyet daily's trial continues, we read the defences by example. Each defense turned into an indictment...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0036par0165	Let's turn on the mike, guys. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0035par0167	Our MPs have been following the case from day one, our lawmaker, Mahmut Tanal, and many of our friends have been following the case there. Both the reports we received from them and the public-issued, communicated defenses... we see that each defense actually turns into an indictment. We remember that from somewhere. The sledgehammer, Ergenekon, and in military espionage, the defences were like indictments, and they really are the subject of indictments now. Today we read such unjust accusations, that the days when today's defences will be indictments, Ergenekon, do not need to have many different qualities to determine that they are closer than the time when the sledgehammer went over. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0036par0169	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, in order to investigate the conditions and needs of women's shelters and statistics, to develop more effective domestic combat tools by working together with women's institutions struggling in this area, to establish the necessary measures needed to be taken so that the existing laws can be implemented, and to open women's shelters in EU standards, the Constitution shall be required to open by Articles 98th, Internal Code Article 104 and 105 of the Parliament. Fighting domestic violence against women in Turkey is one of the top priorities in women's organisations and feminist women's struggle for freedom and equality. Violence against domestic women arises as a problem of male-dominated mentality and the capitalist system. There have been significant gains in women's struggles, men's violence, and the establishment of mechanisms to protect women from male violence. Thus, for women exposed to violence, the opening of shelters and creating mechanisms of support for fighting violence became a basic public duty. Women's shelters opened in European countries in the 1970s were opened in Turkey in the 1990s as a result of women's struggles. In every eight to 10,000 women's shelters in the EU, the feminist perspective appears to have a significant role in the fight against domestic violence. According to data from the European Centre for Violence Against Women, Turkey is ranked in the 23rd place in 44 countries in terms of the number of women's shelters per woman's population and competency. In countries such as Spain, the Netherlands has fallen a shelter to every 3,000 populations, with a total number of 86 in Turkey. However, it appears that existing and especially municipal shelters are very troubled by their working qualities, only to provide protection, and the necessary social work is not done. Thus, after leaving the bunker, women return to their violent lives. Another problem area is that women in shelters are supposed to be kept secret, while police or prosecutors can provide information to violent spouses. In this regard, however, it is known that there is no record of health statistics being removed, so there is no official data missing to determine the request for shelter. The perception that shelters to protect her from violence can harm the family institution is unfortunately one of the biggest obstacles to the spread of shelters and the fight against domestic violence. The AKP further legitimises domestic violence, rather than the policy of protecting the family institution, rather than the fact that it sees women as part of the family in every area, not as an individual, but as a part of the family, from the ministries to the law. As a product of this understanding, the state that is obliged to open a women's shelter wherever there are 50,000 people in the law does not comply. There are also problems with the lack of serious infrastructure while the law is being passed and the lack of budgets. To protect women from violence and then not return to the spiral of violence, temporary housing, care for their children, sustaining their lives in an environment of safety, and the ability to stay on their feet financially is vital in the fight. According to applications to the institutions of the Purple Roof Women's Shelters Foundation, one of the four women who work in this area and have significant experience demands shelter from one of the four women who apply. Protection of women exposed to domestic violence is a basic government task, while at least 303 women were killed in Turkey in 2015. In an environment where four out of 10 women are subjected to violence, an average of five women's deaths every day, the state must view shelters as an important tool in fighting violence and form the necessary policies. In this context, we propose a research commission in Turkey to investigate the conditions and needs of women's shelters, to develop more effective domestic combat tools by working with struggling women's institutions in this area, to establish measures needed to be taken so that current legislation can be implemented, to ensure that women's safety can be maintained by EU standards. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In March 1994, the Democratic Party (DEP) has been called a March 2, 1994 coup to remove parliamentary immunity and put in prison and then shut down the DEP. In order to expose those planning and implementing the coup that led to the closure of the democratic political ways of the Kurdish people and determine what are the measures to be taken by this coup, we propose and ensure that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104,5, and 105. [[İzmir]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] DeP members of the Social Democratic People's Party (SHP) list of the 1991 elections were removed on March 2, 1994 at the request of Ankara DGM Public Prosecutor's Office, and Orhan Doğan and Hatip Dicle have been detained by police at the exit of TBMM. Two days later, Leyla Zana, Ahmet Türk, Sırrı Sakık and independent MP Mahmut Alınak were taken into custody. The MPs were arrested on March 17th, following their interrogations. On 16 June 1994, the Constitutional Court ruled that the Democratic Party be shut down and that the immunity of all 13 lawmakers, including five of them in prison, should be lifted. Lawmakers have been sentenced to 15 years in prison on charges of membership in an illegal organisation. The European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2001 that the State Security Courts were not impartial and independent and that the applicants were not judged fairly. DeP MPs, who were held in prison for ten years and three months and eight days after a retrial, were released on June 9, 2004. Turkey has also been seriously involved in politics by now. March 2, 1994 was an intervention and a coup. On March 2, 1994, those elected by the free vote of the people of Turkey were kicked out of parliament by violating the Constitution. According to statements issued by Prime Minister Tansu Ciller and then Chief of Staff Doğan Wrestling of the period, the DEP MPs have been emphasised the need to remove their immunity by claiming that they are the shadow of the PKK in parliament and that they are bandits in parliament." According to the legal regulations of that day, the police have detained lawmakers within parliament. The parliamentarians had been taken into custody in the coup of 27 May 1960 and the coup of 12 September 1980. The incident on March 2nd was also an intervention in politics. Different vehicles are used in the intervention. Tanks walk, Parliament embraces, the soldier suspends the Constitution. The memos are published on February 28th, March 12th and April 27th. There is a meeting of the National Security Council, and different tools, such as the media, are being used. The vehicle used on March 2, 1994 is also a judiciary. In this sense, although there are differences in shape and shape with others, it is clearly a coup on March 2, 1994 and an intervention in politics. Although other coups have been discussed and discussed in various ways, the lack of discussion of the coup on March 2, 1994 is related to the state's reluctance to resolve the Kurdish problem democratically and its approach to Kurdish democratic policy by their own will. With the removal of the immunity of the DEP MPs and the closure of the DEP, the solution to the Kurdish issue is also blocked on the democratic political floor. After that, the concept of conflict and low-density war came into play, leading to the darkest years in the history of Turkey. There are calls for updates on the HDP person today as the total war concept, which was launched in Turkey in 1994, blocked the democratic political pathways. Calls to the judiciary and Parliament for immunity of HDP MPs, which both the President and government spokesman have voiced in person recently, show that nothing has changed much since then. The social and historical consequences of framing democratic demands and the solution to the Kurdish problem into security policies and terror rhetoric have been only destruction for a hundred years. Parliamental research must be launched to determine the consequences of the victims of the coup on March 2, 1994, which led to the closure of the Kurdish people's way of doing democratic politics. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the meeting of the Council of Ministers of March 23, 2015, he sat on the lap of the building, hosted dorms, made changes to development plans, made schools for wealthy men, while requesting votes in Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's office and election. Ankara parsel has been sold." In Ankara, the AKP's government and its local administrations have been exposed to zoning corruption. On this occasion, I would request and request a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate allegations that the development of zoning in Ankara, public resources, land, and property are being saved by certain sections, thus damaging public interest. [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] In contrast to public and social benefits, the public resources of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality have been sold by Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, and have been offered to some groups and individuals, as opposed to public and social benefits, by the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's public resources, by conducting administrative operations on public transports. Beyond a technical term for the word "partial" here, the economic policy of political power is defined as a spatial unit in the reconstruction of capitalism, which is shaped by state intervention for capital buildup. The consolidation of cities with legal and administrative changes during the AKP's 13-year period of ruling, deepening urban-territorial problems, increasing social problems with urban space, was made entirely for the construction sector. In this framework, the local and central administration has carried out state intervention with the restructuring of capital, which has also accelerated the process of confiscating public resources and changing hands against the poor, the laborer of the immovables. In Ankara, zoning corruption is also carried out by changes in the rights of construction and use decisions by allocation or sale of public property and planning activities. However, urban planning is an event for the public, based on the principles of urbanism, which are based on the concept of public interest above the benefits of individual individuals. However, changes to the plan approved by Melih Gökçek and its ruling parliament, contrary to the common social benefits, are creating personal/special benefits, causing urban spatial inequality, disintegration, social injustice, and irretributable public harm. Under Article 127 of the Constitution, local governments have been assigned to provide for the local community under their administration. It is the main duty of local governments to use public resources in the interest of the public. However, the issues expressed by the Government Speaker and Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc and reflected in the public opinion are a statement that the public interest of public resources is being used by Melih Gökçek, who rules Ankara, not by public interests, but in favour of certain segments, with a disregard of the principle of public interest. This issue was expressed by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who was present at one of the top authorities of the executive office and was not an ordinary claim. The investigation launched on the Ankara Office of the City Planners and the criminal charges filed by some citizens has therefore been decided by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office that those who have filed a criminal complaint have not submitted any documents and evidence and have only submitted a petition to the prosecutor's office on TV statements. As a public value, planning the city's land as a process of how to be used and controlled by the city's people was the primary tool that city administrations have applied to produce publicisation in this sense, and this vehicle was used by Melih Gökçek to be given to certain parts of the public in a way that is in the opposite direction of all its content. This can be understood primarily by the number of cases filed against Ankara Metropolitan Municipality by vocational rooms. The zoning plans, which show how and how public land will be organised in this scope, have been sued, particularly by these vocational rooms, lost by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, but have continued to apply. The examination of the cases has become a constitutional and ethical obligation for our Parliament to investigate, as mentioned, on the grounds of jobs that have not been stopped, on the basis of which group or persons have been granted zoning privileges. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda and will be made when it comes to predicting whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 27/7/2017 (today), I request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President On Thursday (July 27th, 2017) the General Assembly's continued work until the completion of its talks on the Interior Charter Proposal 492th in its merger on Thursday (Today). On Sunday (October 1st 2017), Sunday (October 1st, 2017), Turkey's Parliament of the National Assembly of Turkey is scheduled to meet with the General Assembly on Thursday (July 27, 2017) in the talks of Interior Charter Proposal No. 492. Taking a vacation to meet at 00, It's recommended. The first word against the Justice and Development Party Group proposal is from İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I invite you to remain silent. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0321	Ten minutes or five minutes?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0036par0322	We opened for ten minutes, and you were gonna be done in three minutes. I do.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0323	No, no.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0036par0324	So you can mean a lot in less time. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0326	Thank you. I'll try to do that, but we talked about five minutes. Whatever. Now, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, you're talking about your decision to take a vacation, and you've brought this proposal. In fact, everyone's very tired, but, of course, I'm not sure how right everyone is to say it, but, normally, vacations are something people need, but I have to be very clear and clear that this Congress doesn't deserve a vacation, my friends. This House never deserved a vacation because this House, this country, has not claimed its people. This Parliament has turned its back on its workers and lost its right to strike the most democratic rights. While women suffered violence every day, there was no solution, and she tried to find formulas to marry young women with sexual assault. It's been used to recreate violence by his words. This House, this country... [[Whistling]] Mr. President, I can't go on like this.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0038par0334	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please be quiet, and let's not disturb the character.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0335	Yeah, it's really a problem when the MPs come, it's a problem when they don't come, so we can't talk when they come, and when they don't, they don't listen.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0038par0336	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0337	That's where I'm addressed.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0038par0338	The MPs will listen to you in a very orderly manner. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0037par0340	It doesn't look like it. Yes, it's been used to recreate violence by his words. This Parliament has not even heard the children's voices as this country is being abused by hundreds, thousands of children, and it insists that it still does not establish the child's child's rights commission, which should be its first duty. This Parliament does not have a yellow press card for hundreds of journalists' imprisonment or unemployment. He said, "How do we manage perception without you?" This assembly extended the State of Emergency and stole our freedoms and silenced the KHKs, not enough to discipline the people who were fired by hunger, but to continue the work of ministers who were eager to arrest Nuriya and Semih. This assembly has either pursued or attempted the rich, or sought the great beauty of Istanbul, or Artvin Cerattepe, or the olive groves, or the rich. This Parliament has agreed to criminalise half the country and almost more. I'm against the attacks. He didn't investigate the coup with his decorations or anything like that, and he didn't reveal any political responsible, and he didn't say a word to anyone who even picked up women who had just given birth from the hospital and sent them to jails. We were deceived by responsibility. It was a sound way to avoid the danger, to avoid and blame ordinary people. This Parliament chose to shut up and approve the people's referendum's will as it was being turned into an ass with irregular changes. This Parliament, side by side, has lifted the immunity of the most respected MPs of the country in which he sits, and this Parliament, which sends its MPs to prisons without a trace and then doesn't own them, is now trying to silence the voice of its new invention, the Interior Charter, and the MPs outside. Yes, dear friends, as the public has no cure for any of its problems, the Council has never deserved this holiday, for thousands of persecutions or reasons, and this House, no matter what you say, has been condemned to consciences. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0039par0352	Thank you very much, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Now, the second and final speaker against the proposal is Manisa MP Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0040par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, dear MPs of the ruling party and opposition parties. This is the first time this has happened to us, we've been here for 25 hours, we've never left this room. You've gone, you've rested, you've come, and you've come again with an AKP group proposal, but this AKP group proposal has a very simple, very simple, very clear purpose, but it's never acceptable or understandable. What are we doing? What are we trying to do? You want to leave the council until October 1st, after the work is done on our agenda today. What are we seeing right now? The Civil Code. What's your motive? We have a lot of work, we don't have time. If we have a lot of time, if we have a lot of time, we have no time, if you're going to do some harmonisation of the Constitutional amendment, then by October 1st, we're thinking about putting this parliament on vacation, it's reasonable, it's reasonable, it's reasonable, it's conscientious and it's voting people, we're going to have a lot of work. We said, "We don't have time." But by October 1st, we're on vacation. I am in the land for sixty-five days; I have no business in the assembly, no need for me. The crows laugh at it. Lawmakers don't have summer vacations, friends, they have summer studies. Lawmakers don't have salaries, they have permanent grants, they have tuition. It is not a profession, it is not a place to travel, it is not a place to pursue work; it is the work of the people, it is the work of the people, it is the work of the people, it is the work of the people that gives us.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0041par0361	Mr. President, we can't hear.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0042par0362	Mayor, there's too much noise, we can't hear.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0043par0363	Congressmans, I call for silence. Please, I beg you, let's not talk amongst ourselves.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0044par0364	In the unsealed referendum on April 16th, you painted this flag red Constitution in the color of the palace. If the citizen knew you were going to do it, I'd say two points would go up, so write down two points below what you claim you're getting right now. You know, the local, the national, what is it that you call "The Anayasa" since elementary school? That's the color. From time to time, in the AKP's power, it was turned from flag color to yellow or something like that, and then it came back to that. When we were getting the Constitution excited about paperwork in elementary school, Mr. Minister, you changed the flag color of the Constitution, the National Movement Party, and before long, Ismail Kahraman put this color, this color, the color of the palace on the carpet, why did he throw out the red carpets? It's the color the President likes. He changed this color to plastics outside of the papers we wrote down in the House because the President liked it, all red, all that color. Now, the issue is the court order, the new Constitution... and what do they call it? The president came to the group meeting the other day. I get the spirit of group meetings from the speakers as well as the slogans from the audience. As very experienced political people, you know that better than I do. What's he yelling about? The hope of the nation is President Erdoğan. Look at the slogan: the nationalist Movement Party: the hope of the nation. The hope of the nation, not the hope of the nation. So I'm just saying, take another look at these changes and those slogans, but now that that's changing, why is it changing? There's no time, there's plenty of work. You're going to change it, you're going to reduce the promise of the opposition, ten minutes down to three, three minutes out of the way. Don't ask for roll call, we'll work with 150-155 people here against the Constitution. A amendment to the Civil Code that exceeds the Constitution. You're so sure of the Constitutional Court, he's an ally. If he's not a supporter, you call him the contrary, and you throw him in, chief. It's the new system. Here, for doing so, let's put this Parliament on vacation for six days. Taking this Parliament on vacation is not a legitimate job, contrary to the basis of the Civil Code, to reason, to reason, to reason. We report you to the Turkish nation, to the voters you voted for, to our citizens. It's not like we're on a 60-day vacation. People wait for work, wait for food, wait for a solution to their problem, and the KHKs wait for law. Taking this Parliament on a sixty-four-day vacation isn't an easy thing to explain. We're against it all the way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit01spe0045par0370	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0045par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We're moving on to the agenda's part of the voting process. Van MP Tuğba Hezer Ozurk, ranked in the 1st place, was completed in the 24.5.2017 Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Committee of Parliament (3/1022) in October, November and December 2016, as a result of the absence of the General Assembly's 47 Union (the Union of the General Assembly in the Union) and the Commission's Commission on Karma was completed on 25/17/20. In the final joke of Article 84 of the Constitution, the decision can be made by the absolute majority of the integer in the General Assembly shall be made. The decision shall be made on the third article of the Article of the Constitution and on the third Article of the Interior Charter, if the General Assembly, which discussed this report, determines that the parliamentary position should be dropped on the basis of its absence due to the full majority of its parliamentary status. Therefore, we will seek a 276-access vote to allow the Commission's report to be accepted and to reduce membership in our vote to determine the total number of members. The Commission's report would not be accepted and the parliamentary position would not be dropped if the vote was below 276. Members of Parliament, there is a request from members of Constitution and Justice Commissions 489, that the vote of the Council of Karma Commission Report shall be held in the form of an open vote. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul? Here. Hilmi Scholar, Sivas? Here. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale? Here. Hüseyin Uzbayır, Zonguldak? Here. Halil Eldemir, Bilek? Here. Cahit Özkan, Denizli? Here. Necip Shield, Izmir? Here. Osman Boyraz, Istanbul? Here. Kassim Bostan, Balıkesir? Here. Serap Yasar, Istanbul? Here. Razza Karakcı Kan, İstanbul? Here. Smurf Ünal, Istanbul? Here. Imran Sword, Kahramanmarash? Here. İbrahim Aydemir, Erzurum? Here. Please İnfiye İnsen Ceritoğlu Kurt, Çorum? Here. We have also received a request for a secret vote in the form of a secret vote of the Commission's Commission Report of the Council of the Constitution and Justice Commissions, as well as a request for a vote of 489 rows, but we cannot carry out the request for a secret vote due to an earlier open vote. Now, Van MP Tuğba Hezer Ozurk will hold an open vote on the Commission's Commission Report on Karma of the Council of the Constitution and Justice Commission members of the Turkish Parliament, which envisions the reduction of the parliament's parliament. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. I would also like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0046par0030	Mr. President, can you explain the form of the vote, yes, no, what does it mean?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0045par0031	I explained that. We're looking for a majority. If 276 votes are voted in, the MPs will fall, and there will be no reduction of parliamentary power under 276. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Van MP Tuğba Hezer Ozer Özturk (Interference of the Council of General Assembly 47) because of the Continuation in October, November and December 2016 (Intercomment of the General Assembly 47) [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakverdi Mustafa Elgöz According to this, the commission report has been accepted. As such, Van MP Tuğba Hezer Özturk has been demoted as MPs. [[A round of applause from the AK PARTY rows, knocking on rows of HDP rows, clapping from HDP rows... clapping... applause...]] The meeting of the Committee of the Karma Commission was completed on the 26/17th day of the Council of the Constitution after the Articles of Articles 138 of the Constitution and of the Court of Justice had been warned by Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıl, who was in the 2nd place in the year 2016 of October, November and December 39, as well as by the Council of Ministers of Turkey (3/1072) and members of the Constitution (3/1072). Members of parliament, in the final joke of Article 84 of the Constitution, the decision of the MP who did not participate in the work of the Parliament without apology or permission on five days in a month's time of parliament, to be democratised by the Parliamentary Court of State...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0047par0047	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0045par0048	"On the basis of the adoption of this report, the majority of members of the General Assembly can be decided by the simple majority of their integers. The ruling and the third amendment of the Article 138 of the Interior Charter will be decided if the General Assembly, which discussed this report, decides that it should be dropped due to the absence of the parliamentary legislature, the membership will be reduced by the only majority of its integers. Therefore, we will seek a 276-access vote to allow the Commission's report to be accepted and to reduce membership in our vote to determine the total number of members. The Commission report will not be accepted and the parliamentary position will not be dropped if the acceptance vote is below 276. [[Hitting row covers from HDP rows]] Congressmans, there is a request from members of Constitutional and Justice Commissions 493 to issue an open vote on the Commission's Commission Report. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers. [[Hitting row covers from HDP rows]] Mehmet Doğan Kabbat? Here. Hilmi Scholar? Here. Ramadan Can? Here. Hüseyin Uzbayr? Here. Halil Eldemir? Here. Cahit Özkan? Here. Necip Shield? Here. Osman Boyraz? Here. November Bostan? Here. Serap Yasar? Here. Razza Kavakman Kan? Here. Cute Ünal? Here. Imran Sword? Here. İbrahim Aydemir? Here. If it's Lütfiye First, Ceritoglu Kurt? Here. Mustafa Isen? Here. Salim Nice? Here. Fikri Demirel? Here. Murat Gökturk? Here. We have also received a request from the Council of Constitutions and Justice Commissions Memberships to vote in the form of a secret vote of the Commission's Report of Karma, but the request for an open vote is not taken into effect due to the earlier request for an open vote. We will now hold an open vote on the Commission's Commission Report on the Council of the Constitution and Justice Commission members of the Turkish Parliament, which stipulates the reduction of the parliament of Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldım. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, there are the ministers who will vote as acting ministers, and they must deliver the vote ballot, which includes the color of the game and its name and signature, to the presidential office in three minutes scheduled for the vote again. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldıldıl 2016 (Second of the General Assembly in October, November and December 47) Because of the Dissolution of the General Assembly in October, November and December, the Commission's Commission for Composition of the Constitution (3/1072) and the Commission's Commission on Computing for Computation on Computing Articles 138.2017 and the Supreme Assembly of Turkey (3/1072) is the result of an open vote: [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakverdi Mustafa Elgöz According to this, the Commission report has been accepted. As such, Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldım's parliamentary position has been reduced. [[Hitting row covers from HDP rows]] Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0048par0092	Yes, you've made another very important note in history. You came running in here with the SMS, and suddenly you've filled up the House you've left empty to deputize two MPs, and that's a medal of honor for you, my friends. Yes, in history, really, to criminalize HDP, to say to our co-Chair, to say that even though you had no proper continuity, your former prime minister, Davutoglu, was not present in this Parliament, you made a very happy, happy decision that the position of our deputy minister of Fayal Sarıyıldiz and Tuğba would be reduced in an unjust, unlawful way. Let that be another Medal of Honor to you. The website said that our deputies had been demoted in less than a minute. Which also shows what a calculated book game this is. We will continue to do politics in this country. In this country, we will continue to maintain democratic politics, as we have argued so far, and even if the legislatures, in these orange chairs of this House, in this gloomy weather, as I have just stated, are reduced to the atmosphere of the nation's representatives, who never deserve vacations and do nothing for this country and do nothing for themselves, know this.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0049par0097	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0048par0098	In the eyes of the nation, we can never be demoted or put in prison, judge or deputize. Yes, it will only be a dirty medal in your history, and in our history it will always be called the struggle for democracy, and we will always be proud of it. And I'm afraid it's hard to greet with respect right now, but I salute you with courtesy.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit02spe0049par0101	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0048par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0003	I promise, just a second. To you or to Mr. Yiğitalp?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0050par0005	I've already asked for it, sir, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0051par0006	However, he wanted it according to 60.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0007	I'll make a promise to Mr. Yiğitalp, according to 60. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0052par0010	We can clearly say that there's a black order here because it's full of rage, and when you look at it, there's no one here, it's a black order. To us, with the fine of the 1930s, the period of Kurdish speech, the period of re-engaged practices a hundred years ago, the military junta in 1980, the fascist junta, speak a lot, speak English, the mindset of... And the MPs of the third largest party of Turkey, which is the will of millions of people, have been demoted. It's history and the Kurds, and we won't forget it. When you arrive, when you arrive, we have dropped your deputy. When you say, "Be prepared for what people will say to you. " Don't say it again. The Kurds are our brothers., Kurds are the main elements of this country. Don't say it again. Because today, you've ignored the Kurdish will, the voters, the chosen one, and you'll always answer in the face of history.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0011	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0053par0013	Mr. President, I have been promised to bring another important matter to your attention. As a result of the bomb attack on our Diyarbakır rally, I have already stated that the accused who was arrested for the explosion and alleged to be ISIS was released by the court has been released from prison, while ISIS members on trial for aggravated life have been released from basic propaganda or, at work, our MPs are under arrest for using the right to perform. Now, today, after the release of this defendant, the lawyers object to the evacuation, and as a result, the defendant's appeals were denied by the court on the grounds that there is no objection to his release. So Idris Baluken, Besime Konca, Farhat Encu, Ayhan Bilgen and Coral Danış Beştaş all of our representatives...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0016	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0053par0017	... They were re-arrested with appeals after the evacuation. Now, if the objection is not an issue in the Penal Code, then it is necessary to talk about different practices. I would like to point out that I also condemn the entity AKP's judiciary, which treats the HDP MPs separately, as well as the ISIS defendants.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0018	In accordance with the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda for General Discussion and Parliamentary Review. I'm reading the motion for parliamentary research to be discussed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine and ensure the extradition of our cultural assets which have been abducted abroad and to determine the measures needed to be taken to protect our existing cultural assets, we propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkish National Assembly. Bulent Turan Özgür Special Çanakkale Manisa AK PARTY Deputy Leader of the Group CHP Group Deputy Director Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erkan Akçay HDP Deputy Chairman of the Group CHP Group Deputy Chairman Culture beings are historical documents of the land where they're found. Every monument, an artifact, a mound, that bears the mark of history, makes the existence of those cities and strengthens its identity. In addition to local culture, a variety of properties from architectural properties to life properties must be moved into the future. The Anatolian lands, which have hosted many civilizations throughout history, have contributed to the production of countless cultural assets in each era. Turkey is one of the world's richest countries, as well as one of the oldest memory countries in the world to protect them. Despite various protection measures, regulations in national and international legislation, cultural assets, one of the richest cultural and historical deposits in the world, have been abducted abroad in different ways, and their cultural existence has been erosion due to the history of treasure hunting. The weakness of archeology in Turkey, lacks in museums and the majority of excavations have allowed historical artifacts to go abroad easier by foreign countries. Many of our cultural assets have been taken abroad, bought and sold at auctions, or recorded in museum inventory, still exhibited and displayed, with illegal excavations, illegal transports, and unrecognizable cultural assets. In addition to the abduction of artifacts abroad, illegal excavations and delays in the field of protection have also resulted in massive damage. As a result, cultural monuments, the common heritage of mankind, are meaningful in the land where they belong, and therefore have to be in the land where they belong. In this scope, the detection and whereabouts of all cultural assets smuggled abroad by illegal means must be determined, and museum inventory must be closely monitored. On the other hand, the return of all our cultural assets, which have been illegally exported to our geography and our culture, must be sustained without compromise. The process should include artifacts and ethnographic artifacts as valuable as the ruins of ancient civilizations and artifacts of history and art. A parliamentary research commission is needed to determine and provide extradition of our cultural assets which have been abducted abroad for the reasons mentioned, and to determine the measures needed to be taken to protect our existing cultural assets in any case. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group Group, Group Deputy Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we are starting to talk on behalf of the group's Party's Group's Party's Group's joint parliamentary proposal for a joint parliamentary investigation on behalf of Group Deputy Chair of the People's Party, Özgür Special, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioglu and Group Deputy Chairman Manisa Erkan Akçay, in order to determine the measures that must be taken to protect our existing cultural assets. Government? He's in position. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups and the first signees in the motions, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. According to the decision adopted, the government has been ten minutes for political party groups and motionmakers. The first statement is from the People's Democratic Party Group, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0054par0044	God forbid. Say you're sorry.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0049par0046	I apologize. On behalf of the group, the first statement belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy, a member of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0055par0050	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we believe in the brotherhood of the peoples in Turkey, but we believe that the sum of them is the great Turkish nation. That's why our party is called the National Movement Party. Our idea is Turkish nationalism, which embraces everyone within this scope. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, a consensus on the introduction of historical artifacts abroad, which are on the agenda today as a joint motion for all political parties in parliament, shows itself. One way or another, it's very satisfying that a compromise can happen. Of course, it's important, it's sensitive. But it's a multidimensional issue that needs to be discussed. We're not just looking for adventure, like an artifact, or a artifact, or getting back in the way of these ancient artifacts and treasure hunters. It's supposed to create awareness, but actually we think that the work of this Commission after it's been established would have to work first to create social awareness. I've seen a very interesting expression in my prep work on this subject, on behalf of my group, and I'd very much like to share it with you. One researcher says there must be three basic problem areas for historical artifacts to be moved from one place to another, from one country to another. One of them is supposed to be on the terms of war in that country, and it's supposed to be in a gunfighting area. So when people are concerned about their safety, those who have different intentions in this business, commercial thinkers, or the government exploiting artifacts on behalf of the international system. Secondly, that country needs to go bankrupt, its economy needs to collapse, and because its resources are running out, it needs to worry about making value and making money out of those resources. The third and most interesting thing, and perhaps we should consider, is that the consciousness of history has not become publicized by the shallow, historical sense of art. That's what we all need to think about, all of us together, about the High Assembly, the political institution, the public bureaucracy and the integration. The development of national consciousness through the consciousness of history and the consciousness of history is proportional to the ownership of these artifacts. So how does consciousness and awareness develop, and how does this happen in developed societies? It's also possible to express it in the political institution, an idea acquish, a human capital that can create it, and economic capital that can give it a body. In fact, that's the definition of a society that has developed or developed. So, how can this society be built and how can state policy, politics go to this institution? There's no need to make new discoveries for that. First, you need to form a national bourgeois that creates this union. Well, looking at this process, we also see that the struggle between Turkish capital and modernisation is actually a struggle for mentality. The societies that didn't build the bourgeois are in the category of undeveloped societies. We're looking at Renaissance, reform, the history of enlightenment in the West. In Italy, we see a family at the heart of the Renaissance movement. So when you get a Medici family out of the Renaissance, there's nothing in the background for enlightenment and art. You're looking at the story of the Medici family, a country family, but with their investments in culture, art and acquish, it can make Italy the center of art in the world. You're looking at Turkey, thanks to the Turkish modernisation process, the resources of the state, or in domestic terms, in the process of returning capital from mercantileism to free capitalism. You're looking at places where our rich people sponsored early archeology - underwater excavations, along with excavations of early Anatolian civilizations. You're looking at the background of sponsorship, the incentive of international capital. But we've been in this geography for a thousand years, and even when we've been in the early stages, we've been here a long time ago, looking at the pre-Turkish history thesis with runes. What Turkish-era work was sponsored during that period? Such understanding, no such concern. Well, we're turning it around; in the last 15 or 20 years, the Anatolian Tigers have come out, the capital has changed hands, and they've really come to the center of the edge, the country's sincere, idealistic children, the power, the economy, they've met the authorities, they've met the authorities. So, these should now produce something in this sense, and why are we failing in art and literature at the highest level, without the transformation and investment of culture, art, literature, and aesthetics beyond just increasing the square of the house we're sitting in? Why is this problem of education still going on? He asks the question in every context. I don't want to get too much into it, but it's about our subject at the point of origin, the work of art, and the arrival of our works that we want to bring back to our museums. The common memory of mankind, which has gone from Anatolia, is shown in many places, and when the commission is established, we will take it and work on the inventory of the Ministry of Culture. In particular, the collections of thousands of years of Seljuclu-Ostian republican acquistors, from handwritten to other artifacts, from which the people who packed their belongings on various occasions, in other cases, during that exchange, in the early years of the republic, in the last years of the empire, so that an Ottoman family, who had easily traveled by the ship Lisbon, could build museums there. Ya, I want to take his sails and bring them back here so that I can get that museum from there to Turkey for Turkish artifacts. Second, we feel that new additions should be made to the mentality of archeology and art history. This commission, hopefully, is one of our suggestions when it's set up. Each university has its own archaeological curriculum, and there's no neatness in its perspective. Another thing: let's assume we've brought back the artifacts we've taken away. If we can't preserve the artifacts we've brought in, or the newly discovered artifacts in the Kütahya Museum -- my minister remembers -- as a sad event, then what's the point of bringing them if there's no awareness, no consciousness, no possibility? That's another problem area. On this occasion, we feel that these things should be looked at in order and in terms of integrity. There is one thing that we believe, as well as this necessity, is that the great Turkish civilization that we stand on, the experience of cultural diversity in the history of Turkish culture, Newsey, Orhun Valley, the Valley of Maderaun, has a lot to say about human history, especially today. It's very important that this commission is responsible for the awareness of this acquisitor these days when humanity is in straits. Although we may view this commission as simply a matter of gathering and gathering objects abroad and bringing them back to our country, it is possible to call the experts on how to view these concepts, and give their advice to the government politically, to the NGO, to the relevant environments. Therefore, when I act on these facts, I express my thanks to Professor Nabi Avcı Hoxha, who brought up some issues, both in the Ministry of Culture and in an intellectual sense. Our political parties or missions may come and go, but it's very important to be able to present examples of meeting on the common ground at an intellectual acquish and anxiety point. I pray for mercy from this stand, which we soon commemorated the anniversary of his death, Halil Inalcık Hoxha. I'd like to close my words with his word, and the late man says that darkness is cowardice. Turkey is great. We have to live and work hard in the history of this state. The Turks have dates to brag about, but if you know history, you'll come to the point of saying, "Happy is the Turk." I hereby put an end to my words, and salute the General Assembly, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0056par0067	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The second word on behalf of the groups is for Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0057par0070	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute the General Assembly. First, today, of course, I would like to evaluate this decision our Parliament has made. This is a historically upsetting development for our Parliament. What we object to here is not being objectively treated here. It has been decided against the 10th article of our Constitution, the principle of equality, and the ban of the European Convention on Human Rights of Human Rights has been passed on the basis of the last joke of the article 83 of our Constitution which has never come to the General Assembly, as well as upon its application of the MPs of the People's Democratic Party, which is the basis for not participating in five unifications in one month. This is a decision against the will of the people. Our opinion is that elected MPs, by the will of the people, can only be replaced by elections. In this sense, this decision, which could be an obstacle to democratic politics for our Parliament, was unfortunately made by our Parliament today. I'd also like to introduce to the public that these practices of discrimination and exclusion to our party. Now, I would like to express my opinion on the parliamentary research proposal for the protection of the existing cultural assets, given jointly by the four parties, to determine and provide extradition of our cultural assets that have been smuggled abroad. Mr. President, in our geography, where we have a unique, rich heritage that bears witness to the ideas that govern human history, the fact that we have failed to preserve this cultural heritage and pass it on to the next generation as the heirs of a precious cultural heritage created by peoples of etnisity. Restricted, intermittent and non-degradable attempts to preserve historical and cultural artifacts have not been able to create a quality of protection in both the eyes of relevant state institutions and in public. Now, Mr. President, with your permission, I would like to present some of the issues concerning the historical, cultural structures, works, move-ins, and the public knowledge of the Parliamentary General Assembly, which have recently been brought to the attention of the Suryani people, which I have been a part of, as well as of my constituency. In recent days, the Suryani churches have been transferred to the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I would like to clarify the issue of the news that has been reported to the press in its form, and I would like to point out that the problem that poses the problem is that the development of the issue is two-dimensional. The first is that at the time when church and monasteries as we call them were banned from receiving immovable goods, in some villages in Mardin Midyat, in the name of the foundations, the immanacies of non-movable goods were banned in the name of churches and villages in which they were in the graveyards. This prohibitive situation ended in 2008 with the new Foundation Law. The second dimension of the issue is that even though the cadastro studies were allowed this time after the Act of the Foundations was adopted, the cadastro teams chose to register the property of certain village delegations for its legal personality rather than for its lack of legislation and laws, and more importantly, for its unmovable property. After that, it continued until the adoption of Law No 6360 of the new city municipalities in 2012. Mardin Metropolitan Municipality is founded by the same law. With the laws adopted by the local elections of 2014, the village's corporate personalities were eliminated, and every governorate commission was set up for the removal and transfer of property of its legal personalities. The Mardin Governor's Commission on Demolitions and Paying Commission on behalf of the village's corporate personalities and on behalf of the treasure of the property of the church and monasteries; on behalf of Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, the municipality has decided to register its allocations; on behalf of the Syrian cemetery's municipality; on behalf of the municipality of Mardin Metropolitan Municipality; on behalf of different properties of the parish and monasteries. However, due to an intense public reaction to these decisions, the decision on the dedication of churches and monasteries to Dianet was cancelled. The Purple Gabriel Foundation then took the necessary initiative and applied to the liquidation commission and demanded the extradition of the churches, graveyards, and land in question to the foundation. However, commission officials have stated by law that they can only give the premises to state institutions, that they cannot give the foundations such a turn. Of course, at this point, the subject has become forensically qualified and the relevant foundation has made necessary legal appeals and continues to prosecute. Mr. President, you see, the 3rd joke of Article 42 of the Lausanne Treaty, which was the 94th anniversary of the two days ago, is that the Turkish government is charged with providing full protection to the churches, synagogues, graveyards, and other religious institutions. The foundations of these minorities in Turkey, the religious and charitable institutions will have all kinds of ease and permits, and the Turkish government will not deny any of the necessary facilitations provided to other private institutions for the establishment of religious and charitable institutions. Again, no laws, regulations, and the provisions covered by the Articles of Article 38, which are covered by Article 44, are considered to be the basis of any laws, regulations, and no official transactions contrary to these provisions, and no law of any kind is considered to be a violation of any of these provisions or incompatible with them. The Lausanne Treaty, the founding treaty of the Republic of Turkey, is clearly in violation of the treasure of a small portion of what I just mentioned.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0058par0081	You're giving false information. Those premises are all about your public corporate personality.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0057par0082	For this reason, the arrangements necessary for the end of the current unjust practice must be made by the ministries, and the fact that the Mor Gabriel Foundation or other foundations in question are forced to resort to legal means in order to get their own property, churches and monasteries back, undermines our social peace, causing negative perceptions against our country as well. Dear lawmakers, of course, because of a recent issue that has been released into the press and public opinion, I have brought up the non-moving of the Suryans in the Mardin area, but similar issues remain urgent for the foundation and transport of our Armenian, Greek and Jewish citizens, who have minority status. Of course, it's only natural for our citizens to expect the government to be more thorough in fulfilling its obligations within the framework of the agreements signed by Turkey, both by the fact that our minority citizens do not feel otherwise, that their relations with the state should not be worn out on this basis, and that its relations with the state of democratic, secular and social law should not be worn down. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it would be an important guarantee that we can maintain our common heritage as historical and cultural assets, which can survive until our time in our geography, and that we can maintain our current pluralistic social structure in peace. The current, most striking example of this is the historic Sur region of Diyarbakır, which is a living witness to our thousands of years of memory, our culture, which is hosted by Hasankeyf and countless civilisations that were wanted to be submerged. Otherwise, the risk of a singular approach to the preservation of historical, cultural artifacts and values will result in the destruction of the common heritage of humanity as well as of our country, and, on the other hand, the lack of historical and cultural values that we can pass on to future generations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our Minister is here, and I know they'll be sensitive about it, and I believe they will. It is also our Parliament's duty to comfort our citizens by quickly resolving this problem. I salute you all again with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0059par0089	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I have a promise to make to the Minister. Here you are, Mr. Agbal.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0060par0094	Mr. President, I'd like to report to the General Assembly about the estates in Mardin. As it is known, in 2013, when a legal amendment was made to the city's municipalities, the removals of the village's corporate personalities, which were closed, were ruled to transfer property to public administrations related to the state of these movers. Not only in Mardin, but in all our provinces, the village has been handed over to the treasure or to the municipality concerned, according to the state of the non-moving community that has become a neighborhood. In that respect, the process of the transfer of the settlements of the village's corporate personalities to the treasury at the first moment in Mardin does not make any difference from the transactions in all other provinces. On the other hand, the places that our deputy is betting on in his speech are not the places that belong to a foundation in any way, in the property of the foundation. To date, these places are owned by the village's corporate personalities as property. In that respect, it has nothing to do with the Lausanne Agreement or with the foundations in terms of property law. On the basis of the public demand for the structures found on the unmovables, an assessment has been made to the General Directorate of Foundations, which is in charge and in charge of this issue, to ensure the use of these assets to the same purpose as they have since been made. As ministers of this issue, we have made the necessary correspondence to the provinces, and today these immovables have gone into the savings of the General Directorate of the Foundations. In that sense, any property owned by the Foundation is never to be seized. These movers, owned by the village's corporate personalities, have always been the property of the village's corporate personalities. Just as it has been used for the same purposes, so far, it has been transferred to the General Directorate of Foundations to ensure that our citizens in those villages use the same property in the same way, and in this regard as the state, to do the necessary work to ensure the maintenance and maintenance of these subsidiaries. We're following up on that, too.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0061par0097	Thank you. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0062par0099	Mr. President, I'd like to respond. My thoughts...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0061par0100	Why don't you sit down and I'll turn on the microphone? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0062par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just heard from the Minister. The reason we've just mentioned the Lausanne Treaty is that the Lausanne Treaty is an international treaty that guarantees non-Muslim peoples in Turkey -- non-Muslims -- internationally -- and is the founding treaty of Turkey. So it's clear that these properties, the church, the monastery, the cemetery, and other real estate that were previously registered to the legal personality of the village, belong to the Suryanians, and the Minister probably knows that this matter is not wrong. Here, of course, what is the government's mission, what do we expect from the government? Therefore, these fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed in an international treaty, particularly the right to ownership, belong to the Suryani. Of course, the reason I'm talking about the Lausanne Treaty here is clear and clear, so the rights of non-Muslims are guaranteed by an international treaty. Actually, I don't want to talk about it normally.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0061par0106	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0062par0107	Sorry, it's not over, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0063par0108	Can I make a quick statement?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0061par0109	Then let him complete it, Mr. Dora, and then I'll give it to you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0062par0110	Our goal here is to talk about Lausanne... I don't really want to care about such international treaties, we have these kinds of problems within our system... what is the state for? The state is a mechanism, an institution that exists to solve the problems of its citizens. Therefore, it is available to serve a citizen of the state. Now, the Suryani community -- as a defacto -- has a problem like this, and that's because Mardin is a capital city. We have foundations here in the region, and in the event that this is not accepted, we ask the Minister and the concerned once again to address the sensitivities and victims of our citizens by making a legal arrangement in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0061par0112	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0064par0115	First, let me say that every citizen of the Republic of Turkey, including our Suryanian citizens, has the right to property, right to life, and every right from the Constitution, guaranteed by our state. In that respect, you don't need to refer to the Lausanne Accord. For a thousand years, this nation has been the protector of all nations, all religions, and all the buildings that you have seen, and all the places that have been worshipped, and thus far, this nation has carried them. So you don't have to talk about the government's mission here under the Lausanne Agreement. That agreement or not, the security of all places of worship, of all places of worship, is the state of the Republic of Turkey. You don't need to remind me about that either. It's already protected, just as every structure there has ever been. As long as you don't take any kind of approach to this matter in an outside sense of protection. Don't do that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not up to you, it's not your job.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0065par0119	Not from the outside, from the inside.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0066par0120	Mr. Secretary, this is Mardin MP.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0067par0121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the matter has been cleared up.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0066par0123	Minister, I'm doing my duty.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0068par0124	He's a Suryani MP. What do you mean, outside?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0066par0125	Mr. Secretary, please, solve the problem, and I'll be pleased with you. Bringing up the problem...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0069par0126	Mr. Dora, Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0070par0127	You make it sound like there's a problem that doesn't exist.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0069par0128	Mr. Dora, the matter has been cleared up. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0071par0130	So you think of yourself as the owner of everything.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0072par0131	For God's sake, is the Lausanne Agreement up to you?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0069par0135	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Serdal Welcuoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0073par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that we would like justice in this House to be treated in accordance with the law without a double standard, but I'm afraid the practice doesn't quite work out. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the research proposal, which was later jointly proposed to identify and reintegrate the historical artifacts that have so far been smuggled out of our country or taken abroad in certain ways. There are a number of research proposals in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that we can jointly submit. That's one of them, so I'd like to express my appreciation. Dear lawmakers, if you have no sense of history, you can't understand the wealth of geography and the value of the works you live in. We owe it to our future generations to keep those values, to protect what exists, and to somehow bring those who have been deported back to our country. Even though there have been attempts to recover the artifacts that have been stolen from our country so far, they haven't been successful enough. The cultural heritage of each country is an important factor in identifying its national identity. The countries that have taken over the cultural assets of other countries argue that they have obtained them legally. Therefore, there is a need for a thorough investigation of how these beings were acquired by those countries. A research commission that will be set up is important to determine how and in what ways our assets are being deported, to prove their belonging to our country and culture, and to prevent possible new trafficking events. In addition, a strong political will will has been established for the extradition of historical artifacts that have been illegally removed abroad. Dear friends, our country has not tested this successfully for many years, and many of our valuable assets have fallen into the hands of foreign countries. Studies show that Turkey is one of the leading countries in the world to meet the demand for archaeological artifacts, and many of our historical works are smuggled abroad every year. Therefore, we need to take stricter and more deterrent measures and seek more decisive ways to restore those values to our country, as well as to protect what exists. Most of our works are countries such as Germany, Austria, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Britain, Greece, the United States and Russia. Many of the monuments that should have been in Istanbul, the capital of Byzantinea, are exhibited under the name of the Byzantine museums and galleries in various countries around the world. The Trojan artifacts were smuggled from our country to Germany in 1873, and in May 1945 after World War II, the Russians received a war compensation from the Germans and moved them to Moscow. They are exhibited at the Pushkin Museum in Moscow. Germany asks Russia to return these artifacts that are not its own. The original owner of these works is Anatolia, the Republic of Turkey. They open museums with our work. Bergama is in Turkey, but the Bergama Museum is in Berlin. Another important issue is excavations in our country. The Germans, who have taken many historical artifacts from Anatolia to their country in their excavations, continue to dig up Bergama, where they began in 1864. The Germans, Sultan II for the excavations. He claims that they have received permission from Abdulhamit, but even if Sultan gives such a permit, it is invalid because it is forbidden to carry the artifacts according to Parliament's law at the time. Besides, if such a warrant was taken, this document would have to be uncovered. Likewise, the excavation, which had been launched by the Austrians in Ephesus, has been under way for a hundred and twenty years, and has been halted due to some problems between our country and Austria. Dear lawmakers, the 1970 UNESCO Convention is under Article 3... The entity is called illegal in importing, exporting and exporting of cultural assets in violation of the laws adopted by the state. In the context of this contract, the states adopt a fixed application for extradition of stolen or illegally imported cultural beings and allow extradition claims to be examined directly in national courts. The UNIDROIT Convention stipulates that all stolen cultural assets be extradited to their country. As a result of the meetings that our country has contributed to, I think the agreement that we have expressed our reservations and did not sign can still be used in favour of our country. Dear friends, while we do not have extensive inventory of our historical artifacts, some of our researchers have serious work to do. For example, Mr. Yasar Yilmaz, the author of the book Tears of Anadolu, and my colleague Mr. Yasar Yilmaz, has made his own efforts to reveal our works in the Western museums, signing a major and important study. I'd like to express my thanks to all those who have contributed to your name and whose name I can't count. I'm hoping that when the commission is set up and he starts working, he'll be able to get a lot more information and documents to our side. In this regard, it would be appropriate to receive support from our scientists, associations, archaeologists, and people who have volunteered to do so, who have received a lot of information and documents. Dear lawmakers, Karun Treasures and Apple Coins are very important examples of the prevention of smuggling and the introduction of our historical artifacts to our country. Although winning these cases is high in cost, it has contributed substantially to the prevention of such demands, both internationally and in our country. Of course, it is important to protect and offer our historical artifacts back to mankind. The value of the works in our country is not known in Turkey; it is better protected in the West. It is important that its perception be broken. More funds should be set aside for excavations and museums. The commission that is to be established must also be precise on this matter. Dear friends, another important thing here is the prevention of domestic trafficking. Instead of just seeing smuggling as a police incident, it would be appropriate to create independent units of people who have had sufficient funding and experts. Our Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature must be reviewed, while the penalties for trafficking are increased, while both bonuses and other incentives must be made to allow citizens to deliver the artifacts they find on their property to museums. In short, we must now remove our country from victim country status. History isn't based on race, it's based on geography. We must have a sense of history of the works of all civilizations, nations and states that have lived in Anatolia. As I end my words, I respectfully salute the commission, which will be made to quench the tears of Asia Minor and to show the will to restore our artifacts to the land they were born in abroad, the state they were born in, and to take inventory of them, and to demand them from the countries involved.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0074par0155	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. Now, on behalf of the group, the final word belongs to Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen. Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0075par0159	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For a long time, our country has been busy with hot issues such as security, economics, daily politics. Today, I consider this cultural buildup, which we can describe as the deep politics of Turkey, to be a joy in another dimension, and hopefully, after that, culture and cultural potential will occupy more space on the agenda of the Grand Assembly. Turkey is part of a cultural geography in which East and West are practically intertwined. The history of the land we live on is identical to the history of civilization. The first states in the world came out here on the stage of history, the first cities were established here, the first laws were written here; the first wars, the first regular armies, and the first peace agreements were witnessed again. There are traces of different civilizations in these lands such as Hitit, Frig, Urartu, Lydia, Assyria, Rome, Byzantine, Seljuclu, divisions, Ottoman and Republic. The number of immovable cultural assets registered in our country outside Istanbul is close to 50,000. The number of areas designated as a site area and protected is close to 8,000. From every phase of a 12,000-year-old history spectrum, the trail has fused with one another and melted into each other until today. As these cultural beings are the common heritage of all mankind, they are an important factor in determining the national identity and values of societies. And if we're talking about such an important and attractive collection, of course, there will be an eye-opening event on the agenda. The illegal transfer of cultural assets is a case that has been going on since ancient times. This was the result of the cultural imperialism and colonialism of Western forces in the 19th century and in the early 20th century, and was removed from the land of many cultures of our country. Turkey is one of the oldest memory countries in the world to protect its assets. A similar law, which took effect in the Ottoman period of 1869 with the Asar Nizamnamani of Atika and the cultural assets of the Ottoman Empire, has constituted state property, while a similar law in 1884 has banned exports of cultural assets. Another Asar-i-Atika Order, which took effect in 1906, was adopted after the republic's declaration, and was adopted in 1973 by the 1710 Act of Ancient Arts, adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The world's ancient and large museums have cultural beings of Turkish origin and even monument structures. Here, Efes was just given an example, Bergama as an example. Although some of them have been expelled from the country due to the recent years of the Ottoman state's concessions or permits, there are many cultures that have been removed from our country due to illegal activities that took place in the 19th century and later. The destruction of cultural heritage sites in Anatolia has never been completely blocked. In almost every period, illegal excavations, led by those who traffic and collect culture, can be said to have been multiplied as a result of economic developments in the world following World War II. Even today, cultural heritage sites are being destroyed by illegal excavations as a result of supply and demand dynamics in our country. It is difficult, however, that cultural assets that have been expelled from the country as a result of these excavations cannot be documented by illegal excavations and illegal exports, but it is not impossible. With the co-ordination of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in recent years, activities aimed at preventing illegal transfer of cultural assets and successful results in the extradition of cultural assets from our country abroad, I thank our former Minister Nabi Bey for his contributions. Turkey has become one of the most important actors in the world today in terms of its work and policies on the extradition of cultural assets. At the beginning of April, the sale of a very important cultural object was blocked by a full-page ad to the New York Times. The pressures of Turkey's original countries, as a result of long-standing responses by international organisations and universal public opinion, have felt compelled to change their national legislation, as a result of the long-standing responses. This is an important step in reducing the supply-request balance that the original countries view as the most important problem. It is also important for all countries and cultural heritage to continue in the presence of this cooperation and solidarity, and for the preservation of the world's memory, and for future generations. The main legal tool for preventing illegal transfer of cultural assets worldwide is the 1970 UNESCO Convention. Our country also sided with this contract in 1981. While the contract for the extradition of cultural assets to resource countries does not have the sanction power, the contract is also important for the introduction of import restrictions for exporting and non-profit culture assets in market countries, increasing the awareness of the cultural arts sector, co-ordinating international organisations to prevent cultural presence trafficking. In Article 3 of the UNESCO Convention, there is a law against importing cultural assets, exporting, property transport, and Article 8 of the Article 8 shall place criminal or administrative sanctions on those held responsible for violating bans. However, by the nature of the law, the binding of the contract on cultural assets that were illegally removed from our country prior to 1970, as the 1970 UNESCO Convention on Instruction is also on the agenda of the implementation of the UNESCO Convention. In addition, there have been great difficulties proving and proving crimes committed against cultural assets due to the illegal digs and illegal expulsion of cultural assets. For this reason, the return of cultural assets has been sometimes applied to legal means, but more bilateral negotiations are being held and the results are being reached. The ministry also makes necessary initiatives in this regard. At this point, especially in market countries, the lack of museums as a public institution is a problem in dealing with personal or corporate property legislation for the sale of cultural assets. It is important to ensure the support of national will that our country's executive bodies need in their efforts to extradite the cultural assets of our country, to create public opinion in the countries discussed, and to increase awareness. One of the last and best examples of our country's return to artefacts is the Herakles Lahdi, which was decided to be returned from Switzerland. In the 1960s, strong evidence of illegal excavations has been found, and the case filed in Switzerland has ended in Turkey's favor, and the decision to extradite the entity as a result of the withdrawal from the case has been made. He will arrive at the museum in Antalya in September. This Kilia idol I just mentioned has been withdrawn from the auction in the framework of negotiations. For all these reasons, the protection of the cultural assets of Anatolian and the return of cultural assets from Anatolia, the Parliament's will to return it to the country of which it belongs, will also encourage and create significant awareness in public. For this purpose, we, the EC PARTY, feel it is necessary and important to investigate this Parliament, and we believe that its establishment will contribute to our country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit03spe0076par0177	Thank you, Mr. Isen. Talks on parliamentary research motions have been completed. I will now submit to your votes on whether or not Congress will open its investigation. Those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... are unanimous. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation is made up of 12 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months from the date of the election of the president, the vice president, the spokesman and the clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission will be able to work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0076par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We continue our talks with Justice and Development Party Group President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and MP Erkan Akçay of the National Movement Party Group and 2 MPs to make changes in Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Representative of the Commission and Parliament? He's in position. In the past session, Article 492, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, was adopted in the second chapter of the Civil Code Amendment Proposal. We will now proceed with the motion of the 15th article. There are two motions on the 15th article, which I will have read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs' proposal for Change in the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution has been removed from its text. Muharrem Male Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Audın Azüdağ Veli Ağbaba Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the 15th Amendment be removed from the proposal text for the amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Council of Turkey, which is currently in session. Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Mahal Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0077par0026	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0076par0027	Representative of the House?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0078par0028	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0076par0029	Mardin MP Mithat Sancar has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0079par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's nothing to do but transfer the table from the vote to the current picture to the consciences. The MPs of the two MPs have been reduced due to absence or this excuse. In the order of the ruling party, when about 300, we're looking at now, there are 30 or 35 MPs, and the lawmakers voted in a vote that gave a reason to reduce the mandate. I don't know what it's called anymore, does it really have an effect, does it have a sense of humor? We still have to transfer all of this to history and to today's conscience. We've always asked what the 15th article brings, and we haven't received an answer, so let's open it again. The 15th Amendment uses a phrase such as defaming common history and history. And then there's another formula -- I couldn't do it -- and back from the Constitution of 1982; sir, against the administrative structure set in the first four articles of the Constitution. Everyone knows what this is, and they know what it's for. But -- these two -- no one can guarantee what these flexible, vague concepts will be used for. I said we know what he came for, and you know it. The first is not to use the word of the Armenian genocide here, but to impose a specific interpretation of history. It's called fascism in literature: to impose a language, to impose a comment, to impose a view of history from a single point of view. I've asked, I've asked many times: What part of Turkey's history do we all have the same interpretation? There are different historical comments; that's perfectly normal. For example, I've always asked: How are the administrative courts evaluated by AKP people in the Islamic tradition? For example, when you consider the trial against the Islamic Attef Hodja to be a murder, we asked him if his execution would be included in this clause. No, sir, they call it... That's not true. Say it clearly, be clear, be brave, bring it, expressly forbid these words. For example, ban the word "curdistan," friends, not only would you ban it in the House, but it is also called fascism when an MP outside uses the word "curdistan" or "Kurdish provinces." Now, I'm from Mardin, I'm not Kurd, I'm Arab. There are many Arabs in Mardin, but I'd like to call the geography of the city I was born in and prefer it. Why would that bother you? I'm from Turkey, Turkey, and this geography is called Kurdistan, and I want to call it geography. Now, this is probably the last memorial, and when I say that tomorrow day after tomorrow, it'll probably be a suspended sentence as a disciplinary punishment, and there'll be a fine on it. I'm asking the Kurdish friends here, the Kurdish friends from the AKP: you use the word "curdistan" among yourselves, and you use the word "curdistan" in election studies. So, when others use it here, when they're punished, will your conscience give it away? How do you explain it to history? These impositions, punctuation, I renounce the Constitution, which is a reflection of a fascist mindset. Now, for example, I'll talk to you again later, there's a film called The Damned. Visconti is a great director. There's a scene, there's a little scene. It's only the beginning of the organization of the Nazi administration. They're talking about two important people, two important people working with the Nazis, making a Nazi executive of the steel industry, and the other one asks: "Is it possible?" The other one says, "Yes, it is. Old rules are broken, personal morality is dead, there's a new society where everything is free, there's a new principle. Didn't you hear what the Führer said? Now, is this what we've become? Now, no old rules apply, personal morality dies, you say we do whatever we want, whatever we want? If you say so, do it out loud, let each man set his own position accordingly. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0080par0039	We want roll call.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0081par0040	I'll meet the motion to roll call before I submit the motion to your votes. Mr. Spectacular, Mr. Strict, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Süzgin, Mr. Engin, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Root, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akadın, Mr. Böke, Mr. Kesici, Mr. Bozkurt. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the motion of Mithat Sancar and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs' proposal for Change in the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution has been removed from its text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0082par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0081par0055	Representative to the presidency?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0083par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0081par0057	Muğla MP Akın Üstüdağ has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Supremedağ.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0084par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I, first of all, congratulate those who have made this offer; no party group has ever thought of bringing such an antidemocratic Civil Code Proposal. I think they did a great job, they literally pulled a rabbit out of the hat. In particular, changes in the sense that the voice of the opposition is silent are full of contradictions and errors. Dear friends, it's always been said that the internal code is a silent constitution. This is also used to create a silent Constitution, and also a silent Assembly. Dear friends, this Civil Code Proposal is full of contradictions and errors. The Civil Code has been brought to such judgment that it is truly mind-blowing. This Civil Code is brought in by the basic law. So we can't discuss the substances, we're just discussing the amendment motions, and we're asked to explain what can be said in just five minutes in the amendment motions. You're in violation of the Civil Code, even in the amendment, you don't care if it's against the Constitution. One of the characteristics of this offer is that it was brought to our attention by instructions. In fact, the Civil Code changes can't be introduced as a bill, they can be brought to our attention by lawmakers. On June 13, 2017, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, speaking at the group meeting of the EC PARTI, calls to the government: "There is also a benefit in continuing our attempts to continue with the Prime Minister and our other friends, especially with regard to the Interior Charter, which has not been joined by the main opposition, should not be a holiday until the internal Charter comes out," he says. The President is giving orders to the government, the government is acting... the President of the AKP, who is the President of the AKP, who, by the way, has somehow received the order, the AKP group's deputy leaders are taking action and starting talks with the MPHP, who is already ready. The amendment to the Civil Code, which is prohibited from bringing in as a bill, is being brought up under the government and the President's orders. My dear friends, you've also come up with an invention in Congress to discuss a matter that came up in the House while it was on vacation, in the commission. Unfortunately, the Civil Code is being brought up, even published on the incoming list of papers. By the way, as I just said, even the President decides when you're going on vacation. Dear friends, no banners or exchanges. If placards and such materials are brought into the parliament, they will be condemned. I don't understand that here. When you don't put on a sign, does the law go any faster, or does the time stop when the bill is put on the stand? It's really incomprehensible. We're seeing that there's no immediate purpose to life here, but there's also this. Dear friends, Mustafa Sentop, our President of the Constitutional Commission, said the word "meclis" as in Arabic, not as in Arabic, but as in "where it was sitting," and I said in the Constitutional Commission: "Mr. President, do you mean that we should not speak and sit down in Parliament? I said so. In fact, the word "parlamenter" means "parler" in French, meaning "talk," but in Arabic, you prefer Arabic, so you prefer if we don't speak or sit down. That's what it means, my dear friends. Dear friends, we're not just talking here, we're not even sitting here. Why? Because even sitting here when the Civil Code passes doesn't mean it's mandatory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, with the roll call gone, I'm saying that the MPs sitting here -- not even talking -- will not be able to find it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0085par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0086par0075	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0087par0076	Guys, it's okay, you can sit down. Here you are, Mr. Sentop. Yes, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0088par0081	Mr. Üstüdağ, I didn't name the House, I didn't name it Parliament, I did.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0089par0082	You know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0087par0083	Thank you, it's a shame. Now, you may rise, Mr. Man, please...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0090par0085	We're not talking about the name, Mr. Sentop, we're talking about the meaning, we're talking about the meaning.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0087par0088	Now, we have a roll call. Mr. Male, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Reserver, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Süçük, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Yımım, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Akadın, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Kesici, Mr. Bay Baydar. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the motion of Akın Üstüdağ and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I will submit the 15th article to your votes, but there is an open vote request. Members of the Parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 15th amendment of the Civil Code Proposal. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers. Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer? Here. Mr. Free Special? Here. Mr. Muharrem Man? Here. Mr. Gulay Backup? Here. Mr. Turabi Kayan? Here. Mr. Bulent Oz? Here. Mr. Hussein Pineak? Here. Mr. Melike Basmacı? Here. Mr. Kazim lion? Here. Mr. Özkan Yım? Here. Mr. Sibel Özdemir? Here. Mr. Ilhan Kesici? Here. Mr. Yakup Akkaya? Here. Mr. Hosni Bozkurt? Here. Mr. Mustafa Akaydun? Here. Mr. Mevlüt Dudu? Here. Mr. Ancient Durmez? Here. Mr. Engin Altay? Here. Mr. Ugur Flagtutan? Here. Dear Metin Lütfi Baydar? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. Congressmans, I read your name in the open vote, and if he doesn't take the vote, he's going back into office, and they need to get in. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, since it has been understood that the MPs who have called for an open vote have not taken part in the vote, it has turned into an interim vote, and the 15th article has thus been adopted. Now, there are two motions on the 16th article, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs have been removed from the title replaced with the 16/th Amendment proposal for Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution. Muharrem Male Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Bulent Öz Yakup Akkaya == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey, which is currently in session, be removed from its proposal text. Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Mithat Sancar Meral Danış Beştaş Lezgin Botan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0091par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0087par0144	Representative to the presidency?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0092par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0087par0146	Mardin MP Mithat Sancar has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0093par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers are bringing fines for disciplinary offenses carried out in Articles 16, Article 14 and 15. It's against the law in every way, against the existing Constitution, against the universal principles of the law. There's no point in telling it now. But there's something else that's against this stuff, and it's immoral. He also intends to discipline his MPs with a fine for his words, for his thoughts. Not little, but the lawmaker who is sentenced to reprimand will pay a third of his travel and funds as punishment for two-thirds of his road and funds, the MP who is sentenced to temporary discharge. Now, this, indeed, has nothing to defend. I repeat, it's the product of a fascist understanding. By the way, I've always opposed the use of this word "fascism" as soon as possible, and I've suggested that it be used in both the academy and politics. I think I've used that word as much as I've ever used it in the Commission and General Assembly of these Civil Code talks because I really believe in my heart, it's the product of a fascist understanding. So, what are you doing with this? Of course, there's a one-type project for society, and it's designed to shut the House down. Despite the delegation of the MPs today, despite its moral and illegality, it is the same goal to accept it with your votes. But we have a claim and a insistence that we will defend democratic politics to the end. We don't see the parliament, the Parliament, the legislature. Our presence here is not because we are fond of the seat or the adjective, but because we see it as an important place in democratic politics, we care so much. Our MPs were elected law and morally, and here we are again, talking again, and our Co-Chairs, Dear Selahattin Demirtaş, are in prison for defending this, while they're there, we're walking the same way. Again, our dear friends, Idris Baluken, Çağlar Demirel, Ayhan Bilgen, Selma River, Besime Konca, Gülser Yıldırım, Farhat Encu, Abdullah Zeydan and Burcu, our deputy to Tuğba, our deputy to Faysal, our deputy to Nursel; we are all, together, the prophets of this struggle. For peace, for democracy, for freedom, we will continue democratic politics with the same faith, with the same determination. No one's gonna give that up because they're in there. If you're expecting something like this, you'd be very wrong. And he's not gonna leave because his proxy fell. Look, there are many bright words in Divine Comedy, in the Divine Comedy of Dante. A very simple sentence has become very famous. That sentence is: "Don't go astray, let them say what they say. " Let me change it a little, let them do what they do. Why is it famous? Karl Marx put this phrase in the foreword of the first volume of Capital. Yeah, we'll stick to our ways, no matter what you do. We will continue to fight for democracy, for freedom, for peace. When the history of these times is written, it's very clear where the bill will come from to put both morality and law under the table. It is clear that those who pay the price with the determination to defend politics to the end will be written on honorable pages. We'll be on our way. All hail our friends, all who strive for democracy, peace, freedom, equality. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0094par0158	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs have been removed from the title replaced with the 16/th Amendment proposal for Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution. Bulent Öz (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0095par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0094par0165	Representative to the presidency?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0096par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0094par0167	Tonakkale MP Bkent Öz, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0097par0170	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Civil Code determines the will of the House and requires reconciliation. For we change the law according to the Law. In a matter that requires such reconciliation, I know, and I am the one who changes the law. We are here by the will of our citizen, and we are the deputy of the nation. The less the congressman talks on the stand, the faster the House will run. Restricting the time and number of MPs is the greatest extortion of the will given to us by the citizen. More serious is that in Article 16 it is unfair and restrictive to freedom of expression if you give a grant cut to a deputy who apologizes and pleads for disciplinary punishments. The laws that have been changed in the fact that your arbitrary practices haven't been stopped will go down in history as a law to silence the House. And for fifteen years, you have delivered the people's will to one man. Now you join forces with the MPP, setting up the legal basis for the control of one person's will. Dear friends, actually the AKP has not been in power alone for 15 years. They were partners in the 2010 referendum and earlier, and now on April 16th, they found a party with him in the Civil Code amendment. In 2010, we warned on April 16th, that the failure of the body and the rule of the country by one would create chaos. Look, power does what a person says. The State of Emergency, which was launched to fight the fight, was used for everything but the fight against ▪. By the will of the nation, you have been elected MP and handed over your will to one person's decisions. We said, "Come, let's fight together in Parliament." You handed him over to one person's decisions. As ruling lawmakers, we're wondering how you can tell the citizens about the decisions you've heard on TV.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0098par0174	They don't have that kind of concern.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0097par0175	We're also curious that the ruling MPs may want to hand over the Parliament's will to the palace, but we don't understand what the MPs want. The Parliament will work quickly for the amendment to the Civil Charter. You can only show the basis for the claim. In addition, just reading the amendments to the Civil Code is enough to understand that this claim is baseless. The problem can't be that the law doesn't come out fast and on time. The problem will be after the Civil Code, because the packages you fill the bag with soup and deliver to the House will never be discussed, and our citizen will be denied the right to information. It is not right to press lawmakers in parliament, where MPs cannot speak, where political parties cannot set an agenda, and with increased disciplinary sentences. (CHP cheers) We're also wondering if your next goal is to remove the bench. Unfortunately, the mindset, which personalizes the kingdom, renders the House dysfunctional, makes the judiciary dependent, makes the YSK a party, makes the State of Emergency individual, is busy leading the country towards its hidden goals. This power is blocked, it can't even trust its own MP. It was the minister who complimented his friend, today's enemy, and the minister who complimented him. Willpower should be on the stand, not in the palace. The national will is represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our nation didn't vote for one person in the general election, it voted for 550 people. So save yourselves from the court's justice. (CHP) Don't hand over the will you received from our nation, who chose you and sent you to parliament as his deputy, to the palace because one wants it. Every time you talk about national will, then fulfill it, and by giving up the amendment to the Civil Code, I say don't give up the will to one person. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0099par0181	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly of 492 rows be changed at the date of the release of the declaration, which is included in Article 17 of the Charter. Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Mahal Danış Beştaş Mithat Sancar Lezgin Botan Adem Gaveri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs have been changed as follows, as follows. Muharrem Male Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Uğur Bayraktutan MADDE 17- ▪ These provisions are enforced during the 28th legislature. Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0100par0200	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0099par0201	President of the House?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0101par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0099par0203	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0102par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The vote here today is not a simple amendment to the Civil Code, but a parliamentary coup, the final leg of the July 20th civil coup. The final goal of the coupkers, who have held all Turkey for a year with the State of Emergency weapon, is to shut down the House with a change of the Civil Code. Unfortunately, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which the bombs did not wash and the coupgers did not receive, is being tried to destroy with the votes of two groups of lawmakers. Dear friends, there is now a change in the 14th article in which certain materials, posters, are brought to the stand. As our lawmakers in the past year know, I am one of the most common lawmakers to use these materials. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you a few of the examples I've used in the past term: this is a cartoon made for the AKP when the terrorist incidents increased; hearing, sight, and shooting cartoons. Another is a picture of the house compared to the child of a house without plaster. Another is a picture of the burning apricots, of the ages, of Malatya, in Malatya, my own constituency. Another is the AKP and your beloved partner, who you entered arm in arm and arm -- the picture of the leader of the Turkish Armed Forces, which you call the leader of the terrorist organization, Ilker Basbug, along with His Majesty Fetullah Hoxha. Another is a picture of Ahmet Şık, the heroic journalist of the Cumhuriyet daily, who has struggled both in the past and with fascism today. Another is a picture of one year's martyr children, a summary of a year's time past. I'm showing this here because unfortunately, television doesn't take this picture; the AKP is responsible for all the children who died here; they have children who died in the Ankara massacre on October 10th; you're responsible for all of them. Dear friends, dear MPs, from Hanefi Avcı to Berkin Elvanlar, Mustafa Balbay and Tuncay, who have cancer from Özkans, and who are your late-night operations, the intellectual face of Turkey, our pride, Turkan Saylana. Again, in your time, the soldiers had to be put in a bag over their heads, and it would probably be one of the pages of shame when they wrote history in Turkey, with a gas mask, with a helmet, with the travel actions of lawmakers. Again, pictures of people like the one you banned, like the Che, the Sea Traveler. Dear MPs, now, we have always been the voice of the victims, of the oppressed. If it weren't for this bench, the screaming of the children raped in Posanti Prison wouldn't have come out of the four walls of that prison. Thanks to this bench, those rape screams were heard all over Turkey, all over the world. This is the stand of Leyla, who made the HES resistance in Tortum, which is the seat of those who froze in Erzurum, those who drowned in the dam in Adana, those who were left in the mines in Elbistan, those who were left in the middle of Istanbul, those who were burned in the nylon tent. This bench is the stand of the murdered Ali Tatar, the slain Murat Özenalp, who was slain in the prison of Mamak, and Explorer Kozinoğlu, who was slain in the Silivri dungeon, and who was heard by their cry, as you set up your plots with His Majesty Fetullah Hoxha. (HIP rows) This bench has been the seat of conspiracy such as Military Espionage, Sledgehammer Disgrace, Room TV Disgrace, Revolutionary Headquarters, and thanks to this bench, all these plots have been revealed. Dear friends, I don't think the AKP Group is too uncomfortable with these pictures. When you see this picture, you may feel embarrassed by your responsibility, but the main reason for this ban is not because of these images, but because of pictures of the relationships you've established in the past, photos. Now, I'm picking on you every time, one more time today, because then I can't give you this much money to show you the picture of this First Light. Look at this picture, for God's sake, guys. Let the MHP look over here. The AKP's executive staff is here from its spokesman to the deputy leader of the group. So what is it? The AKP's MYK, and once the path of parliament, was through Pennsylvania. (Applause from CHP rows) This is why you are ashamed of these pictures, so you forbid these images from being brought to the stand. Look, fellas, look and see. Now, from here, look at these pictures, look, you won't see one like this at the Republican People's Party. Look, you were all there. You were all there, he says, from Abdullah Gül to Tansu Çiller, to Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, because you're ashamed of them, you forbid this bench...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0103par0215	Mr. President, you're gonna have to give me a minute to talk this fluently. Look, we didn't take yours off, all right!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0102par0216	...but know that no matter how banned this stand is, you cannot prevent the public from seeing the truth.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0104par0217	President, give me a minute.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0105par0218	Give me one more minute.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0106par0219	If you don't, it'll show you yours.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0220	And on this 15th of July, we will continue to ask you to account for the blood of the 249 martyrs who were killed as a result of co-operation with him.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0108par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0222	Mr. President, I don't think I'll ever get another chance.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0109par0223	Ten more minutes, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0224	I won't get another chance.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0110par0225	Why don't he just turn the mike on for one more minute?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0226	Look, my dear friends, he didn't give me this picture, and unfortunately, he didn't give me the black sheet that we put on the stand yesterday, and he didn't give me this picture. This picture is AKP's responsibility.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0111par0227	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0228	The other pictures, the other photos, are your shame.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0111par0229	Let's end this conversation without having to deal with a person like that. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0231	I clearly teased the AKP, and I said, "Why did you take these pictures?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0112par0232	I'm not even answering.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0233	Is that the man you took the picture of, the mosque or the sacred place?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0113par0235	Mr. Agha, it's unbecoming, let's not bother with the person.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0107par0236	I'm asking you once for the calf, First Eynur Eyüköz, answer me.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0114par0238	I don't even take you in, I don't even take you in! Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0113par0239	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly of 492 rows be changed at the date of the release of the declaration, which is included in Article 17 of the Charter. Coral Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0115par0245	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0113par0246	President of the House?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0116par0247	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0113par0248	Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0117par0251	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we're having the final talks regarding the Civil Code Change Proposal. First of all, I would like to greet all of our pledge MPs, our co-chairs, our co-chairs, our mayors, and Faysal Sarıyıldız and Tuğba Hezer, who are still in prison, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect to all of our pledges, co-chairs, mayors, and executives, who today have been unfairly, unlawfully, unethically, and without ethics. Yeah, I did three hours of defense here. I took over the defense of the Faisal Yellow Star. The congressman's friends changed from 10 to 15, from the ruling party group, but they all came in today... 10 people didn't come in, the audience probably didn't, all the others came in and voted. Why? Really, without listening to that defense, we went so far as to explain that it was a record -- it was a record in the community, I learned later -- to explain it, but before we came, it was followed by instructions, which made it clear that there was no free will. You're entitled not to participate in the roll call, but you're not entitled to HDP, are you? Nothing that's rightfully yours is rightfully ours. Really, you can kick them out of the House, you can drop the legislatures like you did today, you can drop them in a roll call, you can cancel the congressman's cards. What else can you do? You can do a lot of things, but it's not worth anything to the public. Let's go to Şırnak. Let's go to Van. Let's see if Tuğba Hezer and Faysal Sarıyıldız are their deputies. There's no point in dropping it here. The people gave the authority, only the people can get it. They are the guardians of the people. Those who put up signs everywhere have nothing to do with the free will of the nation, nor with the preferences of the nation, nor with respect. Today, Congress signed another page of shame. Lawless, illegal, arbitrary, immoral, and in consultations, lawmakers have been ignored and MPs have been demoted. Really, I wonder if the people who voted for you, the people who voted for us, are they aliens? Don't we live in the same country? 80 million citizens in this country have the same rights and freedoms, don't they? Is it that easy to take down a position he's chosen to play millions of games? We got votes from the same nation. Therefore, we respect the will of the nation. Please don't say that again. Say: "The people who voted for us are the people, the others are not the people. I mean this approach that divides this people, this nation, this state, this undivisable integrity, this politics, this political background. Now, as far as I'm concerned, there's a lot to say. I've got another five minutes in a minute. In fact, you're preventing a confrontation here, preventing the discovery of the truth, which is forbidden to express what's going on out here. That's what this Civil Code Change Proposal means. It's said that the state can massacre, but you can't say that here. The state can kill people in torture, but the MP can't say you killed people in torture. You'll say: "There's Kurdish, but you can't speak Kurdish here." Yes, everyone in Turkey is Turkish, Kurds don't exist. You're saying that if I start with Kurds, I'll tell the others not to be in the Kurdish street. You're saying that the Kurds should not want justice, not want freedom, not want equality. So, what do the Kurds do? Give me that answer, and we'll figure it out, and we'll discuss it. But what you're saying is, let the Kurds not be Kurds, but if they are, let them be Kurds like our Parliament Speaker Ahmet Aydın. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0118par0258	You teased me, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0117par0259	I obviously picked on him.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0119par0260	You can answer if you're defending yourself.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0120par0261	He picked on me, we're witnesses, he picked on me, he picked on me.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0121par0262	So my native language is Kurdish.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0122par0263	Not your mother tongue, but your identity first.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0121par0264	I am also Kurdish, an equal and honorable citizen of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0123par0266	But you won't be able to speak Kurdish. You won't be able to speak your native language here for a minute, you won't be able to speak your native language. You won't be able to say you're Kurd after this thing, after the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0124par0267	Mr. Aydın, this is what they call fascism, this is what they call fascism.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0125par0268	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0126par0269	Now, it's not right for you not to see people who don't think like you. You're not going to appreciate him. Everyone lives and feels the way they feel.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0124par0270	They measure and measure how to be Kurdish, and how to be Turkish. They will also shape the Republic of Turkey. They're the ones who impose fascism.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0125par0271	Mr. President, what you call your mother's tongue is written here in Kurdish as a "x."
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0126par0272	No, my mother tongue is Kurdish and I'm one of those people who believes that the mother tongue is lawful like the mother milk, but it's not written in any language but Turkish, knowing that the official language is Turkish.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0125par0273	Come on, Mayor...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0126par0274	Not only is it related to Kurdish, but when it is spoken in English and Arabic in another language, it is referred to as a language other than Turkish.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0125par0275	While Bill Clinton was talking here, the whole House was standing there clapping.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0126par0276	This should therefore be known because according to our Constitution, the official language is Turkish, and the reports are held in Turkish.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0125par0277	Here, when the head of imperialism was speaking English, you were applauding as standing legionaries.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0127par0279	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0128par0280	They're applying the fervor of fascism, the apocalypse; anyone who wants to see fascism, come here.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0129par0281	Yes, I'd like to submit the motion of Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey, which is listed in the 492 rows, shall be changed in the form of the terms referred to in Article 18 of the Charter. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Mithat Sancar Meral Danış Beştaş Saadet Skill Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 492-ranked Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Nationalist Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Erkan Akçay and 2 MPs have been changed as follows, as is the 18th Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal. Muharrem Male Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Akın Ustüdağ The provisions of the Constitution are carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the President of Turkey. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0130par0300	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0129par0301	Representative of the House?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0131par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0129par0303	Canakkale MP Muharrem Men asking for a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0132par0306	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. On July 12, 2016, Kasdri Gürsel wrote a column in the Cumhuriyet daily. The title of Gadri Gürsel was "Our Father of Erdoğan," and the content of the article was an article on how Recep Tayyip Erdogan became authoritarian every day and how the country was driven away from democracy and freedom. Three days after that, we faced a treasonous coup attempt, and we all fought together in this Parliament, but you, as a majority, as a power or as a palace regime, have done a great deal of disrespect to the position of the Veteran Assembly, to the position of democracy, to the emergence of democracy, and to the House, you have declared the State of Emergency. During the State of Emergency, while democracy and law were suspended in the State of Emergency, you carried out an abusive constitutional amendment. Why abuser? Because you wanted to legitimize an authoritarian system, and you did so using the Constitution as a means of power. Then, again, in the State of Emergency, you have brought the Civil Code Change Proposal, and today you will decide. You want to do an internal coup with the Civil Code Change Proposal, because we see that the people who prepared this Civil Code Amendment offer are not as well-intentioned as those who prepared the Constitutional Amendment. You have put the Civil Charter in front of you, and you have shortened it, and removed it, and kept it in writing, or shortened it, wherever there is a talk, and wherever there is an objection. I guess all you care about is the talks, the negotiations in the House. And again, in the State of Emergency, your attempts to drown all opposition beyond the fight against terrorism have also peaked. On July 12, 2016, you arrested the writers, lawyers, executives of the Cumhuriyet daily, including the one who wrote that column, and that article was included in the indictment, and that article was also asked in the hearings. It was said that you clearly want to create the perception that Turkey is authoritarian by accusing Erdogan? Can you imagine, such a question was asked to a journalist. A critical journalist was asked such a question. While setting up the conspiracy cases, there were more rational grounds to be created, with false evidence, to be created based on fictional indictments. He's gone, too. Now the column, the thoughts, the headlines, puts the defendants in front of the trial as a criminal element. We're on a state-of-the-art regime. You're doing all this in the State of Emergency regime, and you have a Political Academy. I'm going to share with you a quote from the lecture notes at this Political Academy. What was taught at the AK PARTY Academy of Politics: politics is not only done in democratic ways, or it is called politics, but only peaceful ways do not come to mind. Incarceration, intimidation, intimidation, intimidation, and intimidation can also be seen in the scope of political activity, you say, to physically eliminate the opposition that could prevent you from conducting your own policies. This is what the EC PARTY can say as political activity at the Political School, which brings the EC PARTY to this point, not only to the AK PARTY, but also to the AK PARTY, which leads to rapid authoritization. It's really unfortunate as a politician, as a lawyer, to think that political activity involves such actions, such ideas; in terms of our country, as well as in yours. Innocent people are in prison, innocent people are in prison with criminals because you want to destroy opposition, criticism, thought and freedom of expression, but as the main opposition party, we, the Republican People's Party, will bring down all your injustices with justice; we will continue to say, in justice and everywhere, in parliament, in the streets, in the streets, in justice, justice, justice, justice! Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0133par0315	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0134par0317	Mr. President, the speaker quoted a lecture note in the Academy of Politics by falsifying its context and wanted to get us a tender from here, and you're using illegitimate methods as tools of politics.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0133par0318	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please finish in two minutes. Let's not put up with another tease.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0134par0323	Mr. President, dear friends, this is Taner Demirer, mentioned by our dear friend. He's a liberal democrat writer, and he's not a man who's given a bonus in his work and his studies to any other approach to illegitimate political methods or non-democracy. What did he talk about there, that's a separate bet, in context, in context.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0135par0324	It's the same bet!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0134par0325	I'm a political science teacher. There is a more limited area of politics called "legal politics," but if you take politics very broadly, as Clausewitz put it, the war is the continuation of politics by other means, says the General of Prussia. Everyone knows that, if you take politics in broad terms. The mind that makes an academically spoken statement an element of political hostility is useless to democracy.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0136par0326	Mr. Bostanci, that's in international relations.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0134par0327	If you attempt to refer it to a paragraph at the Political Academy in order to tender it during the fifteen years of AK PARTY's power, it shows your condition, which shows where you're wrapped up in criticism. On the other hand, look, I listened to your speech. Ergenekon, you've given a speech that makes even sledgehammer cases hierarchically above the current situation, almost laundering them.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0137par0329	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0134par0330	That was a very wrong speech. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0138par0333	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0138par0335	Dear Man...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0336	Yes, sir, I think there's a very obvious taunt.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0140par0337	Where are you picking on me?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0138par0338	What did he say and pick on you, Mr. Man?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0339	Ergenekon accused him of laundering the sledgehammer. As a lawyer...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0141par0340	That was his speech, sir. I said they're even trying to get a leg up there. There's a hint that it's legitimate.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0341	I said fake evidence.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0142par0342	Please, let's stop picking on him without teasing him. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0345	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Erdogan's authoritarianism seems to have affected you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0143par0346	That's right.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0144par0347	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0348	Because you said here the other day: "Yes, there are 317 of us, the opposition 233 of us; the time is set according to that number, and the Civil Code determines that. The internal ordinances and constitutions are the documents limiting power. If power can limit power, rights and freedoms are guaranteed. But you brought this with a math account. Look, in the cases of Ergenekon and Oda TV conspiracy, you and that structure produced false evidence and sent innocent people to prison. And today, innocent people are in prison. Is it possible that the journalists of the Republic newspaper, their authors, are involved in terrorism? People who have spent their lives fighting terrorism, fighting violence, without any concrete, concrete, credible evidence, are in prison because of their thoughts. You guys, we need to review this.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0145par0351	Make your words clear to them, and make your words clear to them.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0146par0352	Where is Can Dündar, Can Dündar?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0139par0353	Look, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, this is a note from the Academy of Politics, the lecture is not something that can be simplified like you. He's talking about eliminating the opposition physically. What does it mean to physically eliminate it? What do you mean, lock him up, threaten him? We'd love it if you'd come out and explain it. Here's what you did during the State of Emergency. That's what you're getting at, what you've been doing in the State of Emergency. Because you're so cut off from democracy, freedom, justice that you don't even know it's in you. Now you and yourself are leading the country into disaster. The sad thing is, either you don't realize it... if you're aware of it and you're doing it on purpose, you're in a great deal of confusion and error. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0147par0356	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0148par0357	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0147par0358	For the record, the presence of the opposition, and the way our friend just spoke from the stand, is a sign of how the 15-year AK PARTI government views the opposition, and its own dissertation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0149par0360	Mr. President, let the report go through, and I'll tell Mr. Group Vice President that trouble can't be the politics of a single party or the book that's being studied in the School of Politics. The fact that the book is in harmony with its past political practice and that it has been read and understood brings today's objections and criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0150par0362	Yes, it's in the transcripts. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey, which is listed in the 492 rows, shall be changed in the form of the terms referred to in Article 18 of the Charter. Coral Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0151par0371	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0150par0372	Representative to the presidency?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0152par0373	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0150par0374	Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0153par0376	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, the final address is on the Charter. Our next conversation will be subject to punishment. It's not goodbye, we'll keep talking here, of course we won't. What does the Civil Code bring? We talked for hours, we talked for days. That's why, in a nutshell: It's a change that means everyone's going to shut up, silenced. This is the Civil Code Proposal, the ruling party, and, of course, the betrayal of the people of the MHP, under which the offer was signed, the total defeat of their promises. This Civil Code Proposal is the ban on the longing for peace for truly weeping mothers to be expressed here. In fact, it's a motion to kick people out of the National Assembly to change the Civil Code. It is an offer only to be named after the guardian. Let's call it a name, let's vote, but let's not all talk, let's talk about the boundaries of our conversation, and that's how we vote on the silent parliament today. You're all voting silent parliament or voice parliament, and I'm asking you to vote otherwise. Legislative irresponsibility is banned, removed. The Constitution 83 is being lifted. You've lifted immunity together, so don't take it out on irresponsibility. Do not pass on an unconstitutional Civil Code Amendment proposal, the plague of which is too severe. It means we don't want a word about the public. It also means that you don't tell the people what they say, their truth, their demands to face the past here. Now, really, we've come here over many obstacles, crossing dam barriers, pressures, killings, arrests. We know that, we know what we're going through. And you know very well that you can't silence us by lowering the surrogacy here today. The cost of representation of other differences here, especially the Kurdish people, has been very high. Therefore, no one has given us this. The Kurds are Kurds today because of us. But I'll tell you this: The Kurds don't really forget this offer. The citizen's language is forbidden to enter Parliament, not to mention his name in this Civil Code Amendment proposal. We're at the height of fascism. These days persecution is at its highest level, and we, no matter what you say, will not be silenced in the face of this persecution. This is a Civil Code Change Proposal that dares to call it one religion. There's a Civil Code Change Proposal and guidance that reduces everything to monotheism. But let's not forget that the Kurds came through Shark Islahat Plans, not giving their children Kurdish names, mandatory housing policies, mandatory last name changes, massive massacres. Therefore, the entire government has mobilized on this matter. Throughout the history of the Republic and to this day -- in the single party period, in the multi-party period -- there has always been a single nation trying to create this, and we have defended democracy, to live together on the basis of pluralism. None of us had the right to deny the identity of the other. Everyone tried to Turkishise Kurds and other differences, but failed. Some of it may have been assimilated, but I'll tell you for my own sake, it can't change the fact that my geography is Kurdistan, that I'm Kurdish, that my mother tongue is Kurdish, that the Charter can't stop me from saying it here, and I'm a citizen of this country. Mr. Deputy Speaker just said we're equal. We're not even. If we're equal, why can't my children be educated in their native language? If we're equal, why can't institutions be established to investigate our history, budgets can't be split? What kind of equality is that? In Parliament, I'm forbidden to speak of my identity, my language, my faith, my history, my geography, my culture, but the Deputy Speaker says: "We are equal." Of course, as equals, we have to be equal, human values require it, commands it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But my last word is that this is a wrong path. Come, let's turn this wrong way, but your efforts to silence us are futile and futile.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0154par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0155par0393	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0154par0394	Mr. Speaker has made an assessment that, with the change being made, Kurdish representation is being blocked, it's being opposed to Kurdish, it's an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0155par0395	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0156par0397	On what? I didn't pick on him.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0157par0398	Based on what? Is this a tease?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0155par0399	You made fun of me.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0157par0400	What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0158par0401	What's a tease? That's the difference between us and Ahmet Aydın.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0155par0402	Let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0406	Mr. President, dear friends, the People's Democratic Party sees the matter this way: In order for a man to become a Kurdish, he must be part of your party.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0160par0407	No, no, I didn't say that at all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0408	If he's not from your party, if he's interested in another policy, he's either a traitor or a scoundrel or a reasonable Kurdish.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0161par0410	Anyone who takes care of himself and his values can tell us who he is.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0411	Because you want to prevent other kinds of politics in such a language, to gather all the Kurds under the umbrella of your own realistic ideology, and by the power of language violence, you want to impose a claim on them.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0162par0412	Just like you did.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0413	You know, you talk about pluralism, democracy, freedom, you don't have the patience for Kurds first, Kurds. (EA/DG) It is not enough that a person should be a Kurdish; he will surely be a HDP (HDP) person; if he is not a HDP member, he is not a Kurdish person, and he is a traitor.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0163par0414	You make that description, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0415	Such an approach does not bring good to Kurds.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0163par0416	You make that description.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0417	Go tell the Kurds about your democracy, your freedom, before you come and tell anyone else here. We know your language in the field, you're insulting Kurds, you're hostile to people who think differently than you do.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0164par0418	We get 70-80 percent of the vote for him, don't we?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0419	How will you become Kurds' party when you do this?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0165par0420	Ya, you're making Kurds and Kurdistan guilty, how dare we insult you!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0159par0421	You're a group that defines ethnic identity in a very special way and try to make politics out of it. I assure you, you have nothing to do with Kurds. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0166par0424	Please, Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0425	Don't mess with me. You're saying.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0166par0426	Let's not kid around.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0427	You promise, even if I don't.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0166par0428	Here you go. Look, I took it right off without asking you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0431	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, is it a liberal approach to erect monuments that live the history of our Kurds, culture, and the liberation of yours? Is it our name, Ahmadi Hani, or is it yours to destroy them? What is it? You can't even stand the word "Amed Municipality" on Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, you're defending Kurds!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0168par0432	Come to the mothers you kicked out of the city, mothers!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0433	I'd really like to express my regret that an academic such as yourself has expressed such an expression. We get 80% of the vote because we don't like Kurds!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0168par0435	Come to the mothers you kicked out in front of Diyarbakır City!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0436	Because the Kurds don't like us, because they don't support us, despite all your efforts, they vote for us, that's probably why the Kurds love us!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0169par0437	5 points from the PKK!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0438	So I'd like to tell you that your Kurds... So I gave Ahmet Aydın, as an example, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. It's not supposed to be Kurds, it's your party, it's supposed to reject its language, it's supposed to deny its identity.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0170par0439	No way!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0440	And I'd also like to ask you, what is it that you forbid with this Civil Code Change Proposal, please enlighten me, please. What is common history, what is it you call an anti-government definition?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0171par0441	It's defined in the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0442	I've written two sentences on the Commission because I spoke Kurdish, but we've seen that it's written, we've testified. You tell us, what does that forbid? Our reading -- we'll see after October -- prohibits Kurdish language, identity, culture, history, and geography.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0172par0443	No way! No, it's not, it's not!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0444	You can't be friends with Kurd.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0173par0446	Mr. President, just for the record, Mr. Speaker, there should be no Kurds at your party. Ma'am, we have Kurds at our party...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0167par0447	There is; yes, there is.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0173par0448	...shouldn't be. The people you call here will continue to be...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0174par0449	He's of Kurdish origin, he's of origin, he's of origin.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0175par0450	They're of origin, of origin.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0173par0451	...and you'll have to put up with it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0176par0453	I'm just saying for the record.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0454	Here, for the record.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0176par0455	I didn't say that. Both the Kurds and the Turks and the other I.D.s play politics at the party they want, that's their choice. I just called the Kurdish MPs -- not today, but before -- and I told them, please, that this change was intended for you. Also, with the forgiveness of Mr. Bostanci, please don't make fun of our minds, we are not unreasonable people.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0458	Mr. State Beştaş, for the record, you mentioned my name again. I've just said: My mother is Kurd, my father is Kurdish, my mother is Kurdish, I learned Turkish later.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0178par0459	Mother Kurd, father Kurd.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0460	I've never denied my Kurdishism, but I've never been a Kurdist in my life. It's one thing to be Kurdish, Kurdish or Turkish. Once upon a time there were White Turks, who didn't count other Turks but themselves, but now I see that there are White Kurds, who don't consider themselves Kurds.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0179par0462	Your tongue is banned, your geography is banned, and you're still saying something!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0180par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0464	I promise, one second... I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0181par0471	And for the record... Mr. President, we are not just a party defending the rights of Kurds in Turkey, we are equally defending the rights of 80 million citizens living in Turkey. Just because you're defending your rights doesn't mean you're a Kurdish person.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0473	You can't decide who's going to do politics, where they're going to do politics, how they're going to feel.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0182par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0177par0475	Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0182par0478	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I am the group president of this party, not Kurd. At this party, it's brought me to this point that they don't have that kind of policy. I've never seen any of my friends here do what you call "pulling." If that were true, I wouldn't be acting group president here.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0183par0479	Do you believe what he's saying?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0182par0480	I'm from Circics, but that doesn't matter to me, because I'm a socialist, so let the record show. And as a socialist, as I have seen the persecution of Kurds in this country...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0183par0481	There's no persecution of Kurds in this country, you're oppressing Kurds!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0182par0482	...in other countries, in Bulgaria -- which you keep bringing up -- I also see the persecution of the Turks. I also see the persecution of other peoples in another country. That's why I'm here, and that's why as a feminist, a socialist woman, this party made me vice president of the group, which, in fact, is very vocal of the party, and there's no other example in Turkey, or even in the world. Let that be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0184par0485	Thank you. It's not up to any of us to be Turks, to be Kurds. I say I'm human, I say I'm Muslim, alhamdulillah. The rest is a story. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now the votes of the substances in the second chapter are complete.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0185par0489	Mr. President, I asked for a promise.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0184par0490	Excuse me, Mr. Backup. Here, I give you my word according to 60.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0185par0493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Istanbul was full today and again flooded Istanbul. We shared it on Twitter, kids are swimming in the streets. Your private zoning policies, your construction, your illegal and unlicensed zoning and construction have made Istanbul a concrete city, and the concrete city is now bankrupt, and do not stab me with any more daggers, Istanbul says. Hear Istanbul's cry and say not to build towers that lay in the shade of its minarets reaching up to heaven. Istanbul calls, hear Istanbul's scream and immediately withdraw your wild capitalist zoning understanding from our city.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0186par0496	We got it from CHP, that's all we got.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0185par0497	We're saying Istanbul hasn't been persecuted like this. We give you all our regards.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0187par0500	Thank you. Now, according to Article 86 of the Civil Code, I will make a five-minute commitment to each person in favor and against each other to show the color of the game. According to the Civil Code, the first word in favour is from Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yılmaztekin. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0188par0508	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of my own to propose the amendment of the Civil Code, which we have prepared as the Constitutional Commission and brought to the agenda of the General Assembly. I salute you all. What all of our MPs know here is that the existing Civil Code is intended to lock down and block the operation. Under the roof of this parliament, where the nation is represented, it is of course their right to enter into any discussion, to express their thoughts freely. But doing so and locking it completely are very different phenomena. I've said this before, Turkey is not some mystical island country surrounded by roses. It's a very important issue for a state that's always in the scorpion's grip, surrounded by fire, to use and evaluate time. Just as our government is able to give strong reflexes to what's happening around it with the new system, so is our House, which needs to be redefined as an active, competent and functioning Parliament. Therefore, I wish that this arrangement, which is essential, would bring blessings to our House and to our country. This process of construction and reform that our country is going through is not only of interest to us, but to a whole community of geography and to communities persecuted in various parts of the world. All the oppressed have turned their eyes, ears, hearts, and hopes into growing Turkey. In particular, what happened in Jerusalem during the last days at the Holy Mosque, Aksa, shows how much the world needs to play a balancing role in a country that feeds on justice and mercy, such as Turkey. As a result of the collapse of an Ottoman justice authority, Israel speeded up their persecutions, taking part in the 1950s, invading Jerusalem and Palestine, calling the Muslims a drop of water, a piece of bread, a drop of water to drink. For years, even though he's been attacking with his planes, bombs, tanks, phosphorus bombs, he hasn't been able to deter a handful of Muslims from the love of Palestine and Jerusalem, every tyrant there has been the triggerer of glorious resistance, and the whole world has seen that Israel is afraid of a handful of Muslims. We say that Mecca is the harem of God, the harem of the Messenger of Medina, and Jerusalem is the harem of the faithful. We will take care of Jerusalem. Those who tremble from a handful of people there, no tanks, no cannons, no guns, children playing on the beach, should be oppressed by this persecution. Knowing this, we must defend Jerusalem, the Masjid-i Aksa, our holy lands, our harem. I believe that on the day we make this happen, we will have true apology and freedom. Muslims will remain prisoners unless Jerusalem is free. So we will not leave Jerusalem to its fate, we will not abandon our freedom to a handful of invading tyrants and its extensions, but to the last drop of our blood, I hope we will be on your side in this fight. Like some political party leaders, Jerusalem belongs to Israel to make it look good to its Western friends. We won't say it and we won't make it say it. So we're just going to call it a... ax. So Jerusalem is ours, the common value of the nation. We say, "We will fight it," and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0189par0512	Thank you. İzmir MP Musa Çam has asked for a word against him according to the Civil Code 86. Mr. Pine, do you need any help?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0515	No, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0189par0516	Anyway, we're having our last moments now with these banners. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0519	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. Yes, we're having final talks about the Civil Code. On April 16th, we held an 18-point referendum. The outcome of this referendum is no, but by the force of the YSK, votes abroad, unsealed envelopes...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0191par0521	That's the way it works for you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0522	...and that the unsealed votes were not accepted there, that they were accepted in the country, by a double standard, you took it out by the YSK. But as a result, on April 16th, he won, and you're going to admit it, and you're going to swallow it, you guys.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0192par0523	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0524	That's how you do it with the YSK.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0193par0525	That's not what the numbers say.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0526	Two of these 18 articles immediately entered into effect. One is the party's chairman, the other is the re-establishment of the Judges and Prosecutors' Board. Well, the other 16 articles would take effect in 2019, so what's the rush to change the Civil Code immediately?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0194par0527	Instruction...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0528	Obstructing the duties of people, Parliament, lawmakers, taking away their right to speak, taking away their rights to the motion... why and why? Why? You're running the country in an extraordinary fashion that you've declared in Turkey since July 20th. It's not enough, now you're declaring a state of emergency in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you're going to try to run the Grand National Assembly in an extraordinary fashion. That's not true, that's not acceptable. You've been in power for 15 years, you've won four general elections, three local elections, two referendums, one presidential election, major achievements, while after those achievements, you've made yourself more humble, more humble, more humble, while arrogance is at the top. You won't talk, you won't make a motion, you won't shut up, we'll do whatever we say. There are enough people in parliament who say, "There's enough people in the parliament, I'll open the meeting," even if they don't have 184 MPs. (HPP) You can't run a country like this, and such a Parliament cannot be ruled. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now, in the 14th article of this arrangement, it says: "There is no such thing as disturbing exchanges, banners, et cetera." He's dead! May 2014. In October, 18 miners died in Ermenek. Is it a crime, my friends, to come here on every anniversary of their death to name these 18 miners who died in Ermenek? What is the sin of opening the name of 301 miners in Manisa? What's so disturbing about this, guys? What's wrong with him?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0195par0530	It's not disturbing, don't worry, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0531	But with this arrangement, you don't want them to be used here. Mr. President says they're the last of them now. It's shameful! It's not appropriate to say that to a Vice President in the Republic's Assembly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0196par0532	Mr. Musa, those names are crawling on the floor. Get the names out of there! You've got the names under your feet. Don't do that!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0533	But there are words. We can do that, guys. We've created this structure for 11 years. It says Mr. Taner Star. It's been said. We'll bring them here, we'll show them, guys. We'll bring them here and tell them in your partnerships. Look, the architect of tolerance, dialogue is our teacher Fetullah Gülen. She says so. Is it a crime or a sin to bring it in here and say it? It's not, guys.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0197par0534	Don't live with the past anymore! Let go of the past! The past is the past. Look to the future, the future.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0535	Well, the Minister of Justice of the past, now your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bekir Bey, says, "If you say that you're laughing, you're wrong. There's nothing disturbing about showing them here, friends. And the security of this House is not to delay the Parliament's work. What's he saying, Mr. Arinc, the smile guides us, lights us up. Showing it here won't ruin the peace of the House. On the contrary, it'll strengthen things here a little bit more, my friends. What does it say, former Minister of National Education, that the government has been infiltrated? Even crows laugh at it! It can't be a crime to show it, you guys! It won't spoil the peace. It is our duty, friends, to confirm this once again here. What does your president say? What did they want and not give, he says? Didn't he? (Applause) If there's a lie, if there's a slander, say: "You're slandering, you're lying." Okay, I'll take it back. So what does it say? Ariç: The Prime Minister sends his greetings, and he says, "See if there are any orders." If there is a lie, if there is any slander, if there is mud, let me apologize, friends, not.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0198par0536	They've got you, they've got you, they've got you, they've got you, they've got you, they've got
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0537	What's he saying, Erdogan? He called out to Fetullah Gülen, saying: "This longing is what Bitsin says." Guys, if there's a lie, if there's a slander, I'll take back a mud, guys.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0199par0539	The peace has escaped! Did he really disturb the peace?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0540	It's not enough. What's he saying? We had the same thing in common, we saw the same path to the same range...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0200par0542	Mr. President, you're already changing the last Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0543	It's not a crime to show it now, it's not a matter of peace, friends. We need to repeat the words that were said here.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0201par0544	We'll show you yours, then, what CHP did.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0545	Mr. President, on October 1st, your president will come here to speak from the professor. He can't. According to this regulation, materials cannot use different tools and equipment, and neither can Mr. Prime Minister nor Mr. President, Mr. President of the MHP, nor can Mr. State Gardener be able to speak from here.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0201par0547	Why can't you just come and talk?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0548	If they talk, I'll bring them, I'll show them all here, fellas. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0202par0549	If your president wants to use it, he can use it.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0550	No, guys, it's not a double standard, no, no, no, no, guys.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0203par0552	Why don't you just sing the Gendarme March?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0553	For these reasons, the Civil Code is not really appropriate. I didn't have parents to read or write. There was only one thing I learned from my father and mother: son, the bigger your position, the more humble you become. Son, the richer you are, the more humble you are. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've been in power for 15 years, you've been winning elections, you've been taking away the right to speak to our fellow lawmakers here, you've been taking away their motions, my friends.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0204par0557	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0558	It doesn't suit you. That arrogance is not true vanity. That arrogance will take you guys.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0205par0559	Don't throw names on the floor.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0190par0560	I give you all my love.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0206par0562	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0207par0563	Is the peace broken?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0208par0564	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0206par0565	Mr. Speaker wanted to make it look as if he was in contact with the AK PARTY, quoting some expressions in collage logic. This is an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0209par0566	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0210par0567	They didn't have any relationships, they really didn't. We sensed the relationship, but they didn't.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0211par0568	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0571	Mr. President, dear friends, when I came to the stand, a fellow from the CHP said, "Isn't that so?" It's not like that.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0210par0572	How not?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0573	If we were partners, they wouldn't have made the December 17-25, and if we were partners, they wouldn't have done July 15th.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0210par0574	Before that, they touched us, then they touched you, you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0575	On July 15th and December 17th to 25th, the nation's elected power was first built against the AK PARTI. We're talking 40 years of structure. So, when did this happen? He was with December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0213par0576	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0577	Political demagogy won't cover it up. Before December 17th and 25th, your attitude towards this community was essentially a work that made sense as part of the struggle for power, not just against this section.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0213par0578	Mr. Bostanci, do you think it suits you to say that? Don't tell me, keep your dignity, don't tell me.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0579	It wasn't about the job. You didn't know either, no one did.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0214par0580	Why didn't you guys shut up when he wouldn't give us the staff?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0212par0581	You're December 17th or 25th, the nature of the land has been revealed, so...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0215par0582	It didn't work out for you. You kissed the skirt.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0216par0583	Guys, just hang in there, if you need an answer, just relax.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0217par0584	I'll tell you...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0218par0585	Mr. Moses has come here to show us various pictures, writings. Who boarded the boat after December 17th and 25th?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0219par0586	You got on.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0218par0587	Who stood at their door, like lions in a nail, as this power fought them, and who opposed them, Mr. Moses? A moral and conscientious assignment...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0220par0588	Don't tell him that. If only you had some dignity!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0218par0589	...after that period, it's now understood that it's going to be the people who are standing next to you, to come here and talk to you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0221par0592	You'd appreciate it's a very obvious tease.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0222par0593	On one condition, Mr. Musa, remove the helmet from his head, you just showed it to him.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0221par0594	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0222par0595	Here you go, Mr. Pine, for two minutes, I hope we're done.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0223par0596	Mr. President, what's bothering him?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0222par0597	He was a little out of sync with the jacket, Beret. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0224par0600	Mr. President, Dear Hodja, December 17-25 -- we have to be clear and clear -- it's bribery, corruption and theft; there's no need to hide it at all. (EC PARTY RINGS) It's clear and clear. In shoe boxes, in bedrooms, in counting machines, between father and son, did you melt the money? (Father, I distribute it, I distribute it, there are still 35m euros.)
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0225par0601	They were all montages, montages.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0224par0602	You have nothing to defend on this. No Republican People's Party will board the boat. Look, I'll tell you one thing: in today's Council of Ministers and among the parliamentarians here, I'm not saying they did it out of malice -- people who had nothing to do with Fetullah Gulen.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0225par0604	You're lying, you're not telling the truth. They were all edited.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0224par0605	...it's possible to point your finger here. Don't deny it, don't hide it. You have MPs and ministers in the bed of Fetullah Gülen. Don't deny it, don't hide it.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0226par0606	Were you with him? How well you know!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0224par0607	You've been separated, you've been unable to share power in a power war, and money has not been shared, power hasn't been shared. This is a war between you, we don't understand a fight, but no Republican People's Party has a close and distant relationship with Fetullah Smiley. The Candyman becomes a Fetullahist, becomes an officer, happens in the General Staff, happens in the army, happens here, becomes a Fetullahist; where there are 317 MPs, there is no Fetullah Gülci, there is no Fetulist, there is no Fetulist among 26 ministers. I'm not an expert, am I? Am I a teacher or a teacher? (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows) Is that possible? So, not you, me? So we don't get involved in the process. No matter what you say, no matter what you claim, there's no way that Republican People's Party can pass through the gate. You can say other things, we can prove them here, but we don't get involved in the trade, we don't get involved in the...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0227par0610	Look at your candidates on November 1st.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0224par0611	Recep Tayyip Erdoğan Bey and Fetullah Gülen are identical twins, not separate twins. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0228par0614	You've got agents, you've got people, you've got PKK people, you've got DHKP-CL people, you've got DEV-YOL people, you've got DEV-SOL people...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0229par0615	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0230par0616	Mr. Bostanci, I assume you've asked for a word to be made into the transcripts. Please report to the report. [[Noises]] One second, Mr. Lawmakers, I'm listening to Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0231par0620	Regarding December 17th-25th, he made a statement and condemned us, saying that this was a corruption operation, which would essentially have meaning in the framework of CHP propaganda -- even if it wasn't -- even if it wasn't -- if it wasn't -- to make sense. To explain...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0232par0621	You'll have a law on that soon enough. By God, they'll make that law soon enough.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0233par0622	Where are the prosecutors, the prosecutors?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0234par0623	Can't we say corruption?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0235par0624	Well, here you go, Mr. Bostanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, please, if you could just answer the taunts without teasing them, we're almost there.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0236par0628	Yes, Mr. President, dear friends, this country has been to Ergenekon, Sledgehammer cases. Our dear friends, Ergenekon, during the Sledgehammer cases, haven't you repeatedly told us how this gang, the people who did these things, forged evidence, organized those trials, did nothing to do with the law?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0237par0629	Name the prosecutor, the prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0236par0630	You did.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0238par0631	Who was his prosecutor? Who was his prosecutor, the prosecutor?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0239par0632	We did, and you defended them, and you defended them all the time.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0240par0633	The D.A. was involved in the gang.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0241par0634	Now, the same environment, when the same gang makes the 17-25 December, without thinking, without thinking, these guys did Ergenekon and Balyoz, they fabricate evidence, they fake jobs. What they did had nothing to do with the law. They suddenly forgot their knowledge and had amnesia.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0242par0635	Where are these prosecutors? Where are these prosecutors?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0241par0636	They said it was a robbery case.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0243par0637	Teacher, should we believe in you, believe in the voice, believe in the tapes?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0241par0638	That's exactly what he wanted.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0244par0639	Throw it all away and come out clean.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0241par0640	The public foot of ▪ had built this corruption, corruption propaganda, which meant to create environments through propaganda that would give it power and arbitration because it had no political foot. Suppose, let's say there was a doubt in your mind. Gee, wouldn't your mind, Ergenekon, in respect of the recent past, be required to distinguish your own knowledge and approach from the propaganda they're building as a result of this organized operation of the gang you know from the Sledgehammer? You didn't show it. You didn't show it, and in the period after that, unfortunately, you've kept it pure with them, while fighting these environments in some way, which is very wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At least from now on, let's all be careful not to set up an atmosphere that could mean support for this gang by bringing political competition through the GERP. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0646	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0246par0647	Mr. President has said that we are directly and embezzled that we are standing side by side with Fetullah Smiley. That's a very serious accusation. Against this accusation...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0247par0648	You already answered that.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0649	Mr. Pine, just a moment. The talks of the Civil Charter Exchange Proposal have been completed. I submit to your votes all of the proposal for the amendment of the Civil Code: those who accept... those who refuse... the offer of the Civil Code Amendment has been accepted. Congressmans, we're gonna need another ten or fifteen minutes of your time. Mr. Group, I'll make a promise to the vice presidents. Mr. Pine, please, I'll give you my word for a minute, or you can file a report, and we'll get this over with.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0248par0657	I'm not trying to create polemics, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0658	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0248par0659	Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0660	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0249par0661	Mr. President, I need to make an adjustment to Mr. Pine, because I led those processes.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0662	You're in the system, I'll consider it.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0250par0663	I need you to tell me where you got this information.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0251par0664	We're not trying to make a polemic out of you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0245par0665	One moment, Mr. Pine. Congressmans, another ten minutes... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0252par0670	We're not trying to make polemics with you, Hajji. We're not trying to make polemics, we're not accusing you. We know how careful and meticulous you are about these matters, so we have no objection. But it's impossible to deny or ignore these relationships in the past. So we all have to join hands here and get out of this state-organized situation in our country. We're supposed to be hand in hand. But you have been together, you have done great injustices, you have done great injustices. You'll accept it, and you'll give it your self-awareness. And as long as you don't give it to us, it doesn't happen by constantly criticizing us, saying it like that. December 17-25 is one of Turkey's largest corruption files. If they had gone to the Supreme Court, if they had been judged, if they had answered in front of justice, perhaps we would not have spoken of them today. So we need to make the judiciary independent and get to a point where everyone can answer. Indeed, at times we see the smell of Fetullah's laughing feet in the House, we feel it. This Parliament needs to be cleared of this, it needs to be cleaned up from Turkey, but it's not for you to put mud on us, it's not for us to put handles on it. Therefore, the Republican People's Party has made every effort in all matters regarding illegal organisation, and Kemal Kilicdaroglu has come to Bektepe, and has supported the Yenikapi rally. Our group presidents are here, and on July 15th, they have given all the necessary support. But there's no need to go behind their backs and do anything else. Therefore, with this change, I would say that there is no need for you in Parliament to be so critical of our rights, our right to speak, our right to the motion, our right to offer the law. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0253par0676	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0254par0677	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0253par0678	Mr. Kayan, yes, I said I would promise you and Mr. Ozkaya. I'll give it to Ozkaya, and then I'll give it to you, Mr. Kayan, a minute or 60. Mr. Özkaya, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0255par0682	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on December 17th-25, I say as a member of parliament who has filed a criminal complaint that a gang of law enforcement and judicial gangs have committed a coup against a government, following that process, all of the phone calls Mr. Çamak just said are fakes and montages. It's a cut-up from a pool, from listening pools, illegal and irregular, from listening pools.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0256par0683	That's no way to edit!
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0255par0684	Please don't bring water to the flavor of this terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0257par0685	We're still on trial with them. We're still on trial from them, with the files of those judges you call the gang.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0255par0686	Do not repeat the declarations of the terrorist organization here to assist in a new act of terrorism, the actions of this gang. All those processes are illegal evidence. You know best of all, but if you go back and say the same thing, like a gang's coup attempt is still a legal act, it means that you ignore a lot of people who have been involved in this in the past. On this occasion, I wanted to correct the speech of Mr. Pine. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0258par0688	Mr. Kayan, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0259par0690	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to make a very close statement today that the speakers, Parliament, lawmakers trying to be silenced, have been Olympic champions at 400 metres at the Olympic Olympics, the former world and Olympic champion of the 40-year-old province of Visa. I congratulate him, and I also say to the AKP people, that you have taken the interest from the people, what do you say to that? But you didn't pay their debts. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0260par0696	Congressmans, we are about to complete the final merger of the 26th Year of Second Legislature. Our General Assembly will be on vacation until October 1st. Members of parliament, even during a low attack on the national will and Parliament on July 15th, our Parliament continued its work in the spirit of solidarity and solidarity. With our nation's votes and the responsibility of the great task our people have entrusted to us and the awareness of living the spirit I just remembered in every situation and condition, the work began in the year of the Second Legislature. In this year of legislation, in total 120 mergers, our Parliament carried out an intensive act of legislation and control with the contribution and support of all MPs. Several amendments have been made, particularly the Constitution and the Civil Code. In this second year alone, 290 laws and 34 parliamentary decisions were adopted, and two research commissions were established. From the 26th to the present day, 405 verbal question motions have been answered by ministers at the General Assembly. 14 motions have been discussed, 382 laws and 61 Parliamentary decisions have been adopted, 6 Parliamentary research commissions have been established. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Ismail Kahraman, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who we have worked so hard together, for their contribution and participation to our members of the Council of Presidents, our executive officers and clerks, the esteemed vice presidents of our party groups, all the MPs and members of the government. I also report to the Editor-in-Chief of our executive agencies, who support our work with legislation, administrative and technical services; who provide close support in the Court; who provide legislation and audit documents to the General Board; who provide support for the commission's work; Laws and Decisions Chairman's authority; who publishes our number; who registers our statements; the stenographers who register our words; the budget presidency legislators; who employ our technical system in the General Assembly; who provide support to the staff of the Commission; who provide support for the commission's work; who regularly provide the legislisation; who publishes our demands; and the investigations; and the staff of our investigations; and the staff of our staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staffs; and the staff of our staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staffs; and the staff of our staff of our staffs;; and the staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staff; and the staff of our staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staff; and the staff who provide our staff; and the staff of our staff; and staff; and the staff; and the staff of the staff of the staff; the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff; the staff;;; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff of the staff of the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff of the staff of the staff of staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff of staff; the staff; the staff; and the staff; the staff of staff of staff of staff; the staff; the staff; and the staff of staff of staff of staff of staff of staff of staff of staff of staff; and the staff; and the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; and staff; the staff of staff of staff; the staff; the staff; and staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; and the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff; the staff of the staff; the staff; the staff of the staff; the staff [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Now, Mr. Group, if they wish for three minutes, I'll give them my word on the stand. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0261par0703	Do we have to follow a line like this?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0260par0704	Whoever wants it, sir. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0262par0709	Mr. President, we, as the Republican People's Party Group, thank you, to all you've thanked. If there's anything missing, don't let it break anyone's heart. Frankly, on the last day of the year of life, when a holiday is decided, one wants to feel differently, but we're sorry, we're hurt. Once we have a intimacy problem, it's going to take some time to get over it. Because we have a lot of work, we don't have time. There's no way we're going on vacation for six days after a change of the Civil Charter, a change of the Civil Code that you've brought in, a change you've defended, a change of three minutes, six minutes, and three days after a change of the Civil Charter. Lawmakers don't have vacations, they have summer-term studies, and maybe you'll get away with a few peaceful days with your family and your loved ones. But this is a process in which you have proposed that Parliament not work for sixty-three days, and in which you have agreed by majority vote, we cannot accept that you bring this Civil Code as the basic law, that you don't talk about it, and that you take a sixty-three-day vacation, with the majority force of the Constitution, to violate, to stretch, to stretch, and then to make a total profit of three days and then to profit from it, there's no sincerity in this business. Or we won't be burdened with work, or we won't be burdened with struggle. In the last year, we've been out of full budget, you said the Constitutional Amendment, the Commission of Constitutional Amendment ended one night before New Year's, then we fought for twenty days here; we went to the referendum, we all went down for sixty days; we all went out for the Justice March; and now you're saying that we're going to fight, and you're going to do it just because you're going to do it because you're not a party that's going to be silent for the arrest of a member of the Republican People's Party, and you're going to leave a 432 kilometers behind us, you're going to leave us a few bottles of political waste, and you're going to fight, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it with three days. Sheikh Edebali left no will for opposition parties to the main opposition party. Your approach, your general approach, determines the language here, your general approach to Turkey. How fair you are... for example, I know that many of you are very good people, but being a good person isn't enough, it's fair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0263par0714	Two more minutes, five more minutes.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0262par0715	It's not enough to feel fair, the way they treat you believes in your justice, you're supposed to be bailing him out, you've got a problem here. We, personally, can never forget a point where a political party has dragged our frustrations into the country in the last year, but if a right has passed in our favor, may our rights be lawful, but we have not been able to address those we represent, those who look for hope, those who wait for us, those who wait for us, those who wait for us, those who wait for us, and, most importantly, for justice. It will be a longer time for you to be lawful with them. On behalf of all of us, we give our dues personally, but we follow our cause. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0263par0718	Thank you. By the way, when I saw Mustafa Sentop Hodja, I looked to see if I neglected the commissioners, and I personally thanked our commissioners for their work on the commission and their work here, and I especially thank the families of those we thank. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0264par0722	Mr. President, I expressed my views on the holiday at the beginning of the General Assembly, there is no such thing for us, and this Parliament didn't deserve what it did. I said, I won't repeat it. I'd like to thank all members of Parliament on behalf of the People's Democratic Party for their worthwhile efforts in this process. I just got a picture. There was a photograph in this House and here Ferhat Encu was speaking. I've never seen that picture before, in a lot of places, maybe you've seen it, too. While Ferhat Encu was speaking -- who had lost all his relatives in Roboski, Ferhat Encu -- but that wasn't enough, he fell into prison -- where the AK PARTI MPs had a serious perimeter and siege, and he was standing around him and standing alone, as if it were an arena image. Sometimes we look good one by one, but when we're in a group, that image isn't pretty. You're so convinced that you have to be in a group and act like one, which unfortunately makes politics ugly, which prevents you from hearing it completely. So what we're talking about here doesn't really go into your heart, your mind, your thoughts, there's something that's holding it back. I see it as a photograph, and the last photo I see is that, again, the beloved Ahmet Şık, who wrote the Army of the Imam, dear Ahmet Şık, is being tried today for ▪ and, in fact, that no normal, middle-minded person's mind, the case of Ahmet Şık is being judged. But he says: "Yes, I don't have an obelisk, but I bequeathed to my daughter this: I have never been much loved, I have succeeded in not being loved. It's a good thing to make a different sound. You have to believe that. I really wish you a day of this dangerous corruption, this dangerous arrogance, when you're all together, especially when you're free of the arrogance that surrounds you and you can hear others. I want to finish by reading a poem by Zülfu Livaneli, which I love so much to all Turkey and to all of us: The way the storm starts, Even if he hugs from all sides Light conquers darkness, It's turned into spring, My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0265par0745	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0266par0748	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the 5th article of the Civil Charter, however much it says, is a recess. We think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey needs this as of this period of work and year. Besides, no congressman of ours is going to take a vacation in the sense that we're supposed to be or supposed to be.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0267par0750	The meaning of the word "hostile" means taking a break.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0266par0751	Taking a break is the essence of it, but some people can only understand it in the form of lying down or traveling, but we consider it a process where we have more intense conversations with our fellow politicians, our constituents, our party members. If we can find the opportunity to take a few days off, perhaps, as our friends, who are members of the group or members of the party, who are members of parliament, and who are also dependent on their duties, we will agree and rejoice, and it is not yet obvious. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have completed today the process of the Civil Code amendment initiated by our Parliamentary Speaker on June 8th, and it has been agreed that the Civil Code amendment, which the CHP and HDP have not participated in their negotiations and preliminary work and which we have discussed for more than four days as part of the Justice and Development Party and the National Movement Party, has been adopted as a joint agreement and agreement with the Turkish Grand National Assembly as of today, has exceeded 60 hours in the Commission and has been adopted by the General Assembly. I wish our coven good luck to our nation, and I hope that the next Parliament and especially the General Assembly work will be better, one step better. Despite some unfair and harsh criticism, I say so. A good and beautiful example of the culture of negotiation and reconciliation has been given by both parties. I hope, and I hope, that his next work, as four other political parties, will be in agreement, negotiations, and understanding. Although it may seem to be the joint work of the two political parties, we carried out a study that focused heavily on the work of the 24th term, which was established earlier by reconciliation and pre-work groups. Our goal is to ensure that our Parliament is active and efficient in carrying out legislation and control activities, and the need for a peaceful working environment is not only our Parliament's need but also our nation's expectation. Because our nation expects the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be in its own image. We believe that we've made this change without making any progress in the capacity of our Veteran Parliament's national will, without obstructing the rights and powers of lawmakers, without disrupting any control activities. I'd like to point out that we respect the criticism of both the Commission and the General Assembly talks. In the same way, I have a debt of gratitude to all of our deputies who support and assist the amendment to the Civil Code. Once again, I'd like to express that we have found some criticism from this bench unfair. In particular, I'm in debt again to rephrase the fact that the voice of the opposition has been silenced and that we find the claims about the contrary to the Constitution unwarranted. This amendment of the Civil Code is the product of careful, careful and efficient work. I think we have a right to expect respect for this work. It's about coercional and disintegrating comments about the amendment to the Civil Code... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I wrap this up?
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0268par0760	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0266par0761	...sometimes such strong comments were made that they were removed from the context of the subject, and such opinions, claims were suggested that there were heavy criticisms of Turkey, which led to the comparison of an Israeli, balsam, and a Nazi state. In fact, we've heard these views, but I can't say that we've heard them, and I can't say that our lawmakers, who have suggested such persistent and heavy claims and opinions, have actually apprenticed Nazi Propaganda Minister Goebbels, and by constantly emphasising fascism, Nazism, Israel... it's a Nazi propaganda tactic, which we hoped would not be applied to, but we were content to listen to it, and at the end of these words, I'm afraid I felt compelled to express that emphasis and reminder as a voice in my heart. These conversations, all the answers to criticism, are in the transcripts, and I think it's helpful for our fellow lawmakers, who still have a question mark on their head, to apply once again for the transcripts and to review the views of the signees in particular. The Civil Charter is not an ideological text, but many of the criticisms were ideological, even separated from its context, mainly from the context of an ethnicist, even in an ideological cover. Where politics is produced, the Civil Code is a principle that determines rules, rules, discipline, and boundaries. I'd like to repeat that it's an unfair and forceful comment to put meaning outside this framework to change the Civil Code. I hereby wish the amendment to the Civil Code to our country, to our nation, and to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I would like to extend my thanks and congratulations to all the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey while we salute our honorable House. And we're taking a break from Congress until October 1st. I wish all our fellow MPs and all the members of the House greetings, and I wish to put an end to my inspired word from the verses of a poet: Have a good day, have a good day, Parting is a sweet sorrow. Have a nice day until October 1st.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0269par0769	Thank you. It is now time for Justice and Development Party Deputy Director Mustafa Elitas. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0774	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. This is the last day of the second year of the 26th century. It was described as the year of life on the 1st Amendment of the Turkish National Assembly, which began on October 1st and ended on September 30th, but there is also a provision in Article 5 of the Civil Code, which Mr. Akchay has just stated; otherwise, if it is not decided by the Advisory Council, the Turkish Grand National Assembly will take its own vacation on 1 July, and on October 1st, there will be a sentence on Article 5th of the Civil Charter. Surely our fellow lawmakers are doing their best here, they're doing their work, and they're trying to contribute to the country as a representative of the nation, with their criticism of both control activities and legislation, but let's stress that, I think, on June 17th, we decided that on July 1st, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will continue its work and not go on vacation. This is a decision made under the EC PARTI Group's proposal, and we've done this in order to finish the work ahead of us, as long as it is not decided on July 1st by the Council of Counsellors. Dear friends, Mr. President has explained the process of the Civil Code. The position on the Civil Charter is that when we look at the 1980s, 1973, even earlier times of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, work has always been tried to be blocked, time has been exploited in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and some practices have been neglected and have been created in order to address the difficulties that have arisen, but for the first time, a Civil Charter Commission of Four political parties has been issued in 2008. On that day, Mr. Ahmet, chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party, stated that they would contribute positive views as Turkish President, and that they would contribute with a positive opinion by Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Garden. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the EC PARTI, wrote to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that although we have reservations in some articles, we would make a positive contribution if we could agree to an agreement on the Commission and the General Assembly. The proposal of four MPs to work in the internal charter of 2008 and 2009... has been written to the President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Deniz Baykal and Deputy Director of the Group... under the signature of Mr. Rights Suha OKa. We've established a Civil Charter Commission within the party. The Civil Charter Commission is continuing its work. He said, "We'll give it to you within the scope of the study." That's how he stayed. In 2008-09, our friends did important work, traveled to various countries. They've come to a conclusion as to how the good practices they see in those countries will be in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'll tell you some stuff. They say a law is 60 articles. First, let's form a council of advisors according to Article 19 of the Parliamentary Chair. Let's set the time of the law there. There's a law in the Civil Code... Let's say 60 points, just to be easy... 60 hours talking about a law. Let this be compared to political parties' distribution of chairs. If the advisory board can't decide with the alliance, then let the Speaker appreciate it, and the General Assembly is free to comply with it, and let it be appreciated by the General Assembly. For example, again, in the case of the 91st Article of the Civil Charter, which was said to be law-based legislation, the MPs at the time made a determination. The right to make a motion for each of the 60 articles of law, make sixty motions. One third of these sixty motions to the ruling party, the rest to the opposition parties. You know, the 60-hour speech, it'll be arranged according to the chair distribution, but there'll be sixty motions. Twenty of the 60 motions to the ruling party, forty to the opposition parties. The motions were determined to be three minutes. There's no discussion on matter.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0271par0781	I'll open it. Come in, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0782	The talks on the general are limited to 20 minutes. It is also limited to fifteen or twenty minutes in the commissions, and the right of each commissioner to speak ten minutes, at least three from outside lawmakers, in case they don't speak five minutes each, the motion to negotiate would not be submitted... in the commissions of those days long enough to talk for hours until morning, our friends on that day made this assessment. Based on the assessment made by our friends, we visited Britain, where the parliamentary system was implemented, France, where the semi-presidential system was implemented, and then the United States, where the full presidential system was implemented. After those visits, we established a Civil Charter Commission that addressed our policies, not our ideology, which addressed the nation, which was more efficient, efficient, and law-abiding. We couldn't agree on 22 in total. We couldn't agree on 22 articles in the 186 amendment to the Civil Code. Then, on the condition of a Republican People's Party MP, because of our friend's condition -- he should be dressed in pants -- let's make it a matter of presidential decree. But we've made that precious MP -- he's right in his own right -- as long as I'm not defined by the rule, I'm not making this Civil Code rule, which the Parliament has made. Later, the delegation of the group's vice presidents met again on the issue of 164 articles, with no mention of them, and 15 articles of the 21 clauses remain the same text in the Commission. Dear lawmakers, what we're doing right now is in a process in 2013-2014, in which we have signed the Civil Code Amendment Commission and under which we later confirmed with our fellow members of the group, 164 of which we have not spoken, but agreed to the commission. I'm ending it, my dear President, I'm not picking on anyone.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0272par0786	Get to the point, Mr. Elitaş, get to the point.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0787	Look, we listen patiently to opposition, but you can't bear power. So, please, we're listening patiently, trying not to hear the insults. I'm trying to explain a process.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0273par0788	Mr. President, please come in.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0789	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, look, there's nothing in this Civil Code that we've cut down or cut down. In 2011, Mr. Oktay Vural of the National Movement Party, Mr. Mehmet Şandir, Mr. Emine Gülter Tarhan, Mr. Muharrem Ence, Mr. Güldal Mumcu from the People's Party of the Republic; Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı from the EC PARTİ; Mr. Oktay Vural from the National Movement Party, Mr. Mehmet Şandir at the meeting we held at Cemil Cicek's presidency, and three minutes have passed from 2011 to this side of the discussion. You're saying: "You've cut off ten minutes of our time. " Dear friends, we really don't interrupt anything. Look, as of October 1st, today's event will take place in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Why? We didn't give group suggestions today, just an AK PARTY group proposal. We agreed that the group's proposals would be five minutes each, two political parties, and we said we wouldn't. If the group had been given suggestions, we would have done what we're doing at 1:00 a.m. right now. But at the most efficient hour, in the time when the television was on, the Civil Charter 54 is also on, and it's 21 p.m. We've put in a time-out until 00... which means that when the Great National Assembly of Turkey is working, when it talks about things in front of it, the television will be on the air all the time, so we've done this assessment. And, dear friends, we changed the article on Article 81 because it was against Article 143 of the Civil Code. If you look at Article 143 of the Civil Code, open voting can be requested in the Constitution, except in cases which have been coerced by a formal vote and a secret vote. In the Civil Code, it was written clear what the vote would be, and the secret ballots were written, and the open vote was evaluated in Article 142. Other parts may be called for an open vote. There is a contradiction because the 81st article -- the change in 2001 -- did not consider 143. In order to correct that contradiction, our dear friends and I have considered this work. The heart would want us all to do it together, to change the Civil Charter in 2013-2014... maybe we could take a step back then, maybe you would take a step back, maybe half a step back, and we would have found the opportunity to make that change, but it's not too late.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0274par0794	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0795	I'm ending it, Mr. President. I hope, I hope, that from October 1st, by reviewing all of these articles that we've discussed, including all of them, that we are political party groups and lawmakers who have acquired the culture of reconciliation, in the maturity of which we can make a new internal charter of 2017 or 2018, hopefully. I thank all the friends the President has thanked. He wrote them down, one by one, because he knew all the members of the House. I especially thank our stenographer friends here. I don't know how they record the chatter in that hum, but I guess that's a career achievement, congratulations to themselves. I also have a very important thank you to the Deputy Speaker of the Council. He's Kurdish noble, I'm Turkish noble. We've been lawmakers for ten years, but in Çanakkale, we've been brothers for a thousand years, like the one that gave our flag its color in the Istikkale War. Today he boasts that he is Kurd, and I boast that I am Turkish; we both boast that we are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. I don't think you're taking me in when you say you're Kurdish. But when I say that there is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, anyone who lives in this country...
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0275par0799	So is the people of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0270par0800	No matter what language, religion, race, I'm expressing that it exists as a brotherhood within this citizenship. We, the nation of one nation, have founded the law of brotherhood with one nation, one state, one state, one country, and one country for a thousand years. Today Mr. Ahmet Aydın taught a lesson in humanity, not in Kurdish, but in Turkish. I congratulate him, thank you. I salute you all with love, respect, conversation.
tbmm-2017-07-27sit04spe0276par0803	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 14 p.m. on Sunday (October 1st, 2017), according to the Constitution and the Interior Charter, to discuss the issues on the agenda in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good summer with your families, and I wish you a good summer's work. I wish you all the best evenings, to all of our MPs, to our beloved nation, which we have been acting as trustees.
