tbmm-2017-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs of our Aziz and Necip nation, Gazi Turkey's Grand National Assembly, I am opening the 1st Union of the 3rd Legislature of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. I wish for the new year of legislation to be the cause of good works for our nation, our state, our hearts, geography, and humanity, and I salute you. Ghaziantep MP, our dear brother Abdulkadir Yüksel Bey has emigrated to the beka world six days ago. As he walked to Hakk, Abdulkadir Yüksel was a valuable person in his political life, who had been in constant service, and had been integrated with the public during his mayoral term, creating a state of love around him. In accordance with our Parliament's command, I invite you to stand by and read the Fatiha. [[Respect has been held]] Thank you. Dear MPs, my dear and noble nation, my dear guests, from the opening of our House to the present day, I remember our historical figures, our moral and national leaders, who have struggled and struggled to live our nation and our state, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. I pray that our work and decisions under this blessed roof be a blessing to our nation. Dear lawmakers, from the Parliament-i-Mebusan that opened in 1876 until today -- even if there are interruptions -- we have a hundred and forty-one years of Congress tradition. Since the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the national will, has been the place to address the issues our country faces by signing laws and decisions concerning the future of our nation. It has always been the propaganda of those who oppose democratic thinking in our society to weaken the House. As it is known, lawmakers are well-equipped and well-respected at the end of a long and difficult political struggle. In our 26th term, we see that 507 of our 550 lawmakers, 81 of them women, have graduated from higher education and 238 of them have made academic careers. I'd also like to emphasize that similar paintings exist during the past legislature. Surely it is a duty for all to protect the presence of our Parliament and not be harmed. Dear MPs, our House is the only parliament that runs a direct war between the world's parliaments. In the four wars we fought in the Indiz, Inönu, Sakarya and Dumlupınar, we gave 9,167 martyrs, and the national struggle directly led by this Assembly and thus received the title of the Nazi Parliament. As the cannons echoed in Ankara's skies, the first legislatures worked bravely for months with a full jihad spirit, under the lights of the administration lamps. From that day forward, enemies of the nation and of the state did not stand idly by, but they laid traps and prepared traps. Our country was struck by a coup attempt by a terrorist organization, a puppet and servant of imperial forces. On July 15, 2016, our House earned its second title as "Gazi" with its fearless resistance to the traitors. The leader of this coup is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Reverend President, who called our people to squares, integrity and resistance. On his call, our entire nation met with institutions and organizations, filled the squares, and showed the world that he had absorbed democracy. Our officers and soldiers, who are conscious of being part of the prophet's furnace in the uniform they carry, and our minarets who join in the floods, our deputies who lead in the cities in which they are, our civil society organizations all said, "No to violence, yes to democracy."
tbmm-2017-10-01sit01spe0002par0019	Where is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the President!
tbmm-2017-10-01sit01spe0001par0020	I give thanks to all who join this blessed resistance on behalf of our great National Assembly. Mankurt head, hired brain owners, against terrorists from GER, no matter what his party's name is, I want to thank you again as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for our nation of Necip, which is next to democracy, united under our moon-star flag. I remember 250 martyrs with mercy and gratitude. The safest place for ships is the ports, but the ships are built to sail to the seas and oceans, not to stop at the port. In storms, captains don't abandon their ships, they're the first rats to abandon ship. We have a saying, "A plague is born of a thousand counsels. " This coup attempt brought back the sense of unity and unity that was at the root of our nation. An amazing rally was held under the name Democracy and Martyrs' Rally in İstanbul, at the invitation of the Reverend President, after a month-long watch held in the square against those who attempted the coup. That day, five million people in that square represented not only themselves, but 80 million, as well as all the people of our heart geography. May the Holy Spirit not destroy our unity and unity, nor our nation, nor our state. Dear lawmakers, in the last year of legislature, our House has put in a lot of work. One of the most important work we did was to make a radical change in the Constitution. After the referendum held on 16 April 2017, the constitutional amendment adopted after negotiations and voting at the General Assembly came into effect with the votes of our people. According to the adopted Constitutional amendment, after the general elections on 3 November 2019, we will be transferred to the presidential government system during the 27th legislature. This system redefines and strengthens the functions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With the president's government system, I believe the Turkish Grand National Assembly will focus on the legislation and do its job to oversee it more strongly. Under the principle of separation of forces in the new system, law proposals will be submitted by our lawmakers and lawmakers will be more effectively involved in legislative activities. One of the most important goals of the new system is to ensure stability in governance by clarifying the powers and responsibilities of legislation, executives, jurisprudence. Hopefully, with the presidential government system, our country won't have any more government crises. When we look at our recent history, 65 governments have been established in the 907 years since the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The average life span of a government could be a year and a half. In our political history, we have seen two months, even twenty-eight days of coalitions. Our country has made all its economic and social breakthroughs in the period of long-term governments. Social, economic and cultural development is based on political stability. We hope that the change will lead to a stable period. One of the other studies we've done is a partial amendment to the Civil Code on July 27, 2017. With this change, the General Assembly's working procedures and bases have been redesigned, and legislature activities have been sought to be accelerated. Dear MPs, as it is known, the building we are in is the third building of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The law on building this building was adopted in 1937 and was laid on October 26, 1938. The building, however, was not built until 1950, due to various reasons, because of the entry of Jahan Harig. It was not built, it was not built, it was destined to take place in the Democratic Party period. Strangely enough, the opening of the building was given to the blood-soaked gang who violated the Constitutional Constitution, under the name of the National Union Committee. From 1961, when our building began to be used, we made repairs so that we could clean up areas that had been bombed and destroyed on July 15th, in order to make them in line with the original. There will surely be new studies in the coming period, in line with the number of lawmakers to increase. Meanwhile, the mosque, which was built during the late Prime Minister Turgut Özal within the Covenant, will be rebuilt in accordance with today's conditions. Dear MPs, the qualifications of our state are defined in the Constitution. The Republic of Turkey is a democratic state that recognizes its nation as a subject; it prioritizes human rights and freedoms and accepts the rule of law. He is neutral in the face of politics, philosophy, and religion. The hopes of the great states are great, as well as the issues that await a solution. During this period, our coven is looking forward to a very large period. According to its national revenues, the 21st century's leading country, which continues to embrace all the oppressed nations in the heart geography of Arakan and Gaza, which have done the most foreign aid among the world's governments, must be carried out by law in accordance with the great Turkish bid. The issues involved in various laws concerning the rights and obligations of lawmakers must be met under one law. I'd like to see the work done in harmony with the parties. An example of the new year of legislation, and a time crowned in our political history, should be our common goal. The Community Council takes a role model. It's imperative that there are no images of violence or insults in the House. We have to make it happen, and hopefully we will. I believe our parties share a common faith in this matter. Our goal is to maintain our national unity and personality and make sure that our Turkey moves forward and lasts forever. At this point, the President sums up a beautiful main constitution: one nation, one flag, one country, one state. Hopefully we'll walk this way. Those with raw ambitions, stick lentils in their heads so we don't change that direction. Octopuses won't be able to stop us from our strong Turkish march. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to have two decent people present at this opening meeting. Jonah, the architect of hearts, says: I didn't come for the cause, I came to make hearts and hearts for the love of my work. I'd like to read a few verses of Mr. Abdurrahim Karakoc's poem, which became Rahmetirahman in 2012, in addition to Jonah, who gave a scalpel to our modern - day lovelessness: Let the one who doesn't know know know know hear! We're brothers, one body, one nation. We are brothers, one body, one nation. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] One God, one country, one flag, one body Let's not take a wrong turn! Why separate East and West? We're brothers, one body, one nation. You can't throw history in the basket! We are united in the mosque and at the front; Mohachata, Cyprus, Kocatepe We're brothers, one body, one nation. Our name to remain, as it remains, We're brothers, one body, one nation. We don't like cruelty, we don't have a grudge! We have a true religion that enjoins good. The mountains, we have an oath for ages: One body, one brother, one brother, one nation. I hereby bless our emigrants, poets, writers, ideas and litigators. Dear members of the Veteran Assembly, my nation of Necip, I pray that the new year of legislation will be blessed and auspicious as I end my words. From the opening of our parliament to the present day, I honor those who have passed through good and personal services, including Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, who have served with great determination to secure our national ranks, our absent Parliament Speakers, our lawmakers, and our unknown heroes. I thank and thank you to our veterans, who have come to bear witness for the sake and independence of our nation's state. With exemplary work, I wish you the best of the new year of life, and once again I salute you with respect. Thank you. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, our Reverend President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is now attending the General Assembly Hall to make the opening statement for the year of the legislature. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Sir, we'll now read our Istrillal March. Please come in. [[Identical March]] Thank you. Here you are, Reverend President.
tbmm-2017-10-01sit01spe0003par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the opening of the 26th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Third Legislature, I salute you with my deepest feelings. I respectfully recall all our MPs who have served under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I am happy to remember those members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including Veteran Mustafa Kemal, the Bani of our Republic. I wish you all the best in the year of the new legislature, who led and transferred the War of Salvation, who won the title of double veteran, the most heavily attacked on July 15th. On the night of July 15th, our beloved nation claimed all the institutions that represented its independence, future, and will as one heart and one wrist. Our nation, surrounded by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Chamber of the Presidency, has not hesitated to give its life to protect these institutions that it considers a symbol of its sovereignty and future. As a matter of fact, around our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Chief of Staff building across from us, 34 of our citizens have been killed, and 29 of our citizens have been killed around the Presidential Chamber. On the 1st anniversary of the July 15 coup attempt, tens of thousands of our citizens met in front of Turkey's Grand National Assembly at three o'clock at night and in front of the Presidential Assembly at six o'clock in the morning have once again shown our nation's determination in this matter. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude to all citizens at the July 15th Martyrs Bridge in Istanbul, Ankara, Parliament and the Presidential Covenant, and to all the citizens who are enthusiastically participating in the late-night democracy watches throughout our country. The disasters, such as July 15th, are a test of countries and nations' troops, unity, solidarity, common values dating back from the past to the atlas. Praise be to God, we, the state and the nation, have made this trial our very best. Now it's much harder for those who have dark ambitions on our country, who write bloody scenarios for it, who have betrayed themselves, who harvest their partners. Our nation, our state, our House, has seen the game played, and has shown its reaction as a single punch on top of terrorist organizations, gangs of betrayal. July 15th is now a common value to us, just like Malazgirt, like the Fethhi of Istanbul, just like Çanakkale, like Dumlupınar, like the many relics of our profession. Anyone who holds this value, who respects that value, will rise up in the hearts of our nation, be exalted, have dignity. Anyone who tries to emulate this value, trivialize it, distort it gets the answer he deserves from our nation, and he gets the treatment he deserves. I want to make it very clear that I expect much more sensitivity from our parties at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is the direct target of the coup. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important works our Parliament has performed during the last legislature is that on 16 April, no doubt, our nation carried out the process of constitutional amendments. We sincerely wish that this constitutional amendment, which means a radical change in our country's governance system, would be the work of all parties, but the constitutional amendment process was run by the EC PARTI and the MHP, for some of our parties in parliament followed a different policy. Basically, the foundations of this process were laid during the crisis in the 2007 presidential election. The change that allowed the president to choose directly is a harbinger of further developments. After we had the honor of being the first president to be elected directly by the people's votes, we stated that the work that started at every opportunity must be completed. It was possible for this amendment to be carried out, but only with support from our other parties. The will shown by the MPP in this direction opened the road to April 16th. After the House did its part, our nation made its final decision in the chest of its own free will. According to the adopted Constitutional amendment, Turkey will move to the presidential government system following the elections in 2019. One of the most important features of the new system is that it clears relations between legislation, conduct and the judiciary. The most important weakness of the present system in our country was that these relationships were intertwined. The criticism of the legislation, the executive body, the ruling party, which holds the majority in parliament, or the coalition parties, is thus eliminated. As it is known, the President representing the executive officer in the new system cannot offer law or bill to parliament outside the Budget Act. Legislative authority is completely under the spell of our lawmakers. Just as the constitution is above the law, the law is above the presidential decree. So if there's a law against anything, there's going to be a law against it. More importantly, the law will be based on any decision that is made by the Parliament when it passes the law. Dear lawmakers, the fact that Parliament and the President's mandates are indexed to each other makes it necessary for these two bodies to work in mutual balance and understanding. The one who corrupts this harmony has to answer to the people in the election. And you don't have to wait five years for that. If any member of the legislative or executive body feels that his own work has been obstructed by the opposite side, he can apply to the public at any time. The people's judgment must abide by the law and the administration. The rules of conduct of the law are also clear. He has the right to oversee the executive legislature with the resources provided in a wide range from the written question to the request for trial on the Supreme Court. In the same way, a system has been established in which the power of the judiciary, which makes its decisions in the name of the Turkish Nation, is powered by national will. I underline here of the 13 members of the Judges Prosecutors' Council, the most important management mechanism of the judiciary -- seven of which will be determined by Parliament and four of which will be determined by the President. The Minister of Justice and the Undersecretary will also be on the board. Notice that while the new system clears the distinction between forces, it always leaves the real decisions to the public. Turkey has achieved a system where national will is so strengthened that the public's preferences are so prominent. On this occasion, for the first time in our country, I'd like to thank everyone who has helped us to implement such radical governance reforms with the free will of our nation, with the free will of our nation. We have one important task ahead of us, both in our Parliament and in our government -- an immediate work must be done on arrangements to ensure that the new system, especially the laws of integration, is most healthy. We must have finished all these preparations by 2019. I hope that these studies are not merely decoupling statements in the Constitution and the law. We need to take the opportunity to turn this opportunity into a comprehensive management reform. The 26th Coven has done great things so far, and hopefully it will do much more important work in the year of the new legislature, and I believe so. Dear MPs, we're going through a historic process in every sense. The developments in the world and in our region affect us, too, whether we want to or not. None of the social, political, economic, diplomatic developments that our country has experienced in recent years are independent of this general photograph. Of course, in this complex period, everyone has an account, a road map, a goal. It is our duty to ensure that our country proceeds in the direction of our goals, while on the other hand, the attacks aimed at Turkey will be in vain. Even though it's hard, we have to do these two together. We haven't made the slightest concession from our goal to make our country one of the world's top ten states in every field, and we won't. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] In every step we take in the direction of our 2023 goals, we are getting closer to the great and powerful Turkey ideal. It is an important achievement that we can maintain both our own protection and our plans, our programs, our investments, at a time when we are surrounded by instability and conflict. Turkey has not given up a single project due to its instability around it, nor has it postponed a single investment. It's the result of the decisive policy that we watch our average growth rate in the first half of this year is 5.1 percent. The fluctuation in growth, curing, inflation, unemployment, exports, tourism has been largely controlled. This positive acceleration appears to continue to increase every passing month. What I expect from the government is that it will take measures that will make our citizens' daily lives easier, that we can look to the future more securely without compromise from public fiscal discipline. It is vital that we avoid unnecessary steps that will make our nation restless and uneasy and questionable in the face of a strong stand against domestic and external attacks. I believe our Parliament will support our government's efforts in this way during the new legislature. I would like to express my appreciation for the unity and unity of our Parliament, except for a party that was discussed at last week's extraordinary meeting. This is the view of the House that our nation misses. I hope that this solidarity in national matters will be shown much more often, much stronger in the coming period. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been constantly fighting separatist terrorism since 1984. In addition to PKK and its extensions, terrorist organizations formed with ideological and religious rhetoric have also done significant damage to our country. In order to take over the state, we have nullified the attacks on our nation from the police to the judiciary, from the property estate to the army. The fight against terrorist organizations is at the top of areas where we need to show our unity and unity the most. No political and personal interest can justify a statement, a stance, a policy that means support for terrorist organizations. I don't think it's appropriate for anyone to directly or indirectly support the structures that the judiciary calls a terrorist organization. And I don't find the statements and attitudes from our high judicial institutions to our bench judges, to our prosecutors, to the extent that the entire judicial system has been undermined. There are a number of descriptions that are particularly inadmissible for a state of emergency. Who can deny that Turkey faces truly extraordinary threats, such as the coup attempt and the attacks of terrorist organizations? Extraordinary threats require extraordinary measures. Moreover, it is also true that the government has used very little of the extraordinary state of state powers mentioned in the Constitution, only in matters of urgency. No one has ever been harmed in a state of emergency except for terrorist organizations and their members. When the need for counterterrorism is eliminated, of course, the application of emergency will end. On the other hand, thanks to the results we've achieved in the defence industry and in the field of technology, we've made terrorist organizations especially within our borders unable to move. We're taking our cross-border operations step by step within the cooperation of other forces in the region. Our success in the Battle of the Firat Shield has changed the fight strategy of the coalition against the DEAŞ. Now we are in the effort to establish a secure area in the Idlib region under the consensus provided for the Astana talks. In contrast, we see that some of our allies' insistence on co-operation with the structures we call a terrorist organization has led to a deeper crisis in the region. We express our thoughts, our stances, our policies on every platform, our warnings. No project that does not respect the territorial integrity and social consensus of the countries in crisis has a chance of success if it does not meet the facts in the field. The destination of such steps is more pain, blood, and tears. As Turkey, we will continue our commitment to fight terrorist organizations within and outside our borders. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, Iraq is a country that has not been stable since the first Gulf War, with constant conflicts and crises. The religious tension in Iraq, where the DEA's threat first broke out, is the main source of many problems. And now there's the added missteps taken by the Northern Iraqi administration. According to the Constitution of Iraq and the approach of the international community, the referendum by the North Iraqi administration has no response. However, even the attempt itself is a major problem. Turkey grieves that its efforts for the security, peace, well-being of all regions in Iraq have found such a response to the administration of Northern Iraq. The real problem here is the consequences of this initiative, who will benefit from it? It is clear that neither the Kurds nor the Arabs nor the Turks nor other groups will have a good outcome in this process. In a chaotic period when even the ancient states had difficulty protecting their existence, the claim of independence of a regional structure would mean nothing more than being a toy of other forces. At the very beginning of our borders, we can't allow a pit of persecution to be a permanent threat to the surrounding countries, including the Iraqi people and Turkey. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) We can never tolerate our country being threatened, especially through Kerkuk, which the international community sees as controversial, while we know very well that it is a Turkmen city. We'll have to answer for that. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Defending the rights of the Kurd in Erbil could never mean ignoring the rights of the Arab (Arab) in Mosul, Turkuk (Turkmen) in Kerkuk. The government of Northern Iraq, which is seeking support from far and wide to bring Turkey to its side, is ultimately doomed to be disappointed. No one has the right to destroy millions of oppressed people living in the area under the pressure of embargos, isolation and sanctions. In a time when the formula for security and prosperity is sought together in integrity, in solidarity, it is a betrayal of its own people in the first place. We hope that this mistake with personal ambitions and the concerns of power will be returned as soon as possible. I really think it's important that no support statement from the international community has ever come from the world to encourage this step, which will also trigger other problems in many parts of the world. As Turkey, we have taken various steps together with the Iraqi central administration and Iran. We are pleased that the international community has supported these steps. Before we get to the more unpleasant points of the matter, it is our greatest desire to resolve it with silence and common sense as soon as possible. Turkey will continue to be with our brothers and sisters, with its state and nation, when the northern Iraqi administration shows its virtue of coming back from the wrong. Dear friends, the countries of the European Union are the ones who disappoint us the most in our fight against terrorist organizations. We are deeply disturbed by the leniency of those who obstruct Turkey's accession to the European Union, not in secret, but in the way it is shown against terrorist organizations. We say that the PKK is a separatist organization, a terrorist organization, trying to tear down our state, and that's why it's constantly orchestrating acts of terror. We say that the gang of traitors has attempted to take over the state. In his coup attempt, 250 of our citizens have been martyred, 2,193 citizens have become veterans. In the same way, we give them the information of various terrorist groups involved in all kinds of crimes, from murder to robbery, kidnapping to assaulting law enforcement. So, what do you think the European countries are doing in return? Nothing. Today, Europe has become a place where terrorists can walk free and manage all kinds of organizations against the legitimate governance of Turkey. In front of the parliament building of a European country, there are posters of guns pointed at my temple, and the police in that country are just watching. We're at the G20 Summit; the picture of my person, the picture of Mr. Putin. And the picture of King of Saudi Arabia, the picture of a tripartite; a car next door, Mercedes; the police have surrounded it; and very interestingly, the killer says that Mercedes will be given it. When I tell that to the chancellor of that country, he looks at his friends there as if he didn't know. How could you not know? Is that possible? But it's another thing, a policy through Turkey, to prepare for elections. And right now, we're looking at brochures, banners, banners, and stands are being set up all over the continent to celebrate the terrorist organizations, the terrorists, the murders they've committed. When their own citizens are caught in various crimes including terrorism in our country, those who come right to our door don't even process the files we're passing to them. The hypocrisy of the European Union institutions in everything from chapters to free movement and assistance has become so obvious that they no longer have an excuse to cover it up. Turkey's first application in 1959, since it signed the Ankara Agreement in 1963, we see that the European Union has misunderstood its patience. Which means they still don't understand. However, I make it clear that we will not be the ones to end this process, throw in the towel, give up. As a matter of fact, we don't even need membership in the European Union anymore. If the European Union is going to make a breakthrough today, there's only one way to do it, which is by making Turkey a member, it's to actually launch an economic and cultural expansion move. Here's what we've seen in Brexit, who knows what will follow. If the European Union does so, we are here, and we are happy to contribute to the future of Europe, where we have over 5 million relatives. And if he doesn't, it doesn't matter to us, we'll keep going our own way. We will preserve this policy until we get a final answer from the European Union, which I believe all of our parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are participating. Dear lawmakers, nowhere in today's world is ever far away. No matter where this happens in the world, every development - positive or negative - affects all countries, all communities. Such developments are becoming much more important for a country with two thousand, two hundred years of government experience, a thousand years of cultural acquish, a thousand years of geography. There's a great deal of love for our country in places where we are historically, culturally and socially connected, but there's also great hope. It is possible to respond to love only by thanking us, but the responsibilities that hope puts on us are very heavy. So as we cannot turn our backs on Iraq, Syria, Caucasus, Central Asia, the Balkans, Eastern Europe, we have no right to ignore North Africa, Central Africa, South Asia. How can we tell their hearts that we are not interested in the developments in Libya, where our brothers and sisters with love for Turkey live? How can we ignore the events in Yemen, in which we sing? How can we see Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and the others, where he has branded every corner of our faith? How can we abandon the oppressed in Arakan, Turkistan, Crimea? How can we leave our brothers and sisters in the Gulf alone in their crisis? When you go to what we call the Middle East, for example, when you look at Jerusalem, many of the silhouettes that you see are the relics of our profession. Turkey, of course, is closely collaborating with Euro-Atlantic institutions, but that does not necessarily mean that we ignore our history and our civilization. On the contrary, the power we receive from our history and civilization is our greatest advantage. Today, when anyone looks at Turkey, they don't see a country from Edirne (Edirne) to Kars (Kars), from Sinop (Thatay), and 80 million people living in it; and when it comes to Turkey, it comes to this great historical and cultural background. For this reason, we will extend our hand to the oppressed in Arakan, and we will defend the rights of our citizens in Europe; we will also embrace our brothers in Central Asia, in the Caucasus, in the Balkans, and in Syria, Iraq, and elsewhere, to save their lives. Praise be to Allah, we are able to do all things. Turkey ranked first in the world after America, with the help of 6 billion dollars in human development last year, and the number is second in the world and first in terms of national income. (EC PARTY and Ministers' rows) I know that some of them have been suspicious of this situation. It's an honor to be a country that helps, not help, but helps, and to be ahead of the world in this matter, for this nation. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The resources we use for these things don't stop us from working on any of our projects today, but this way, it's invaluable to where we find it in people's hearts. It should not be forgotten that Turkey has invested both in its past and in its future. Dear lawmakers, these days have been a difficult time, and we have many reasons to look forward to the future. Turkey is a powerful Turkey, which not all terrorist organizations in our region have washed from the inside and the outside by their attacks. (EA/DG) Despite efforts to isolate internationally, Turkey is a strong Turkey on the front lines of all platforms. Turkey is a strong Turkey, which shows such endurance towards economic, social, political crises. Every test is also an opportunity, and that should be known. Each crisis brings new opportunities. Turkey is making serious efforts to capture window of opportunity in the surrounding crises. From the president to the government, we are working hard to assess these possibilities from business to civil society. In the past, many countries and leaders who have come to our country at a distance now stand with us with much more confidence and faith. Because of the balances in their own domestic politics, you know very well how those who publicly declare against our country express different views behind closed doors. Turkey's 2023 goals have become a general acceptance, sooner or later. Now we're going further, 2053 and 2071, and we're starting the process of subroutineing our vision. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) In this regard, of course, our Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also getting very important tasks. I'm calling all our parties, all our deputies: let's make sure our country gets out of this critical period as strong as possible. Let's build together the future of Turkey. Let's consolidate the vision of 2053 and 2071 together. Let's go out in front of our people, not our differences, but our partners. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) Then we'll see that our country's performance of growth, development, development has increased exponentially. I wish the 2019 elections were a turning point for us to live up to these beautiful wishes. With the spirit of unity, unity, brotherhood, solidarity, I wish our Parliament would give this hope to our nation in its new year of legislature. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy upon my brother Abdulkadir, whom we have sent to eternity and to the Hereafter last week, and to his family, and as a member of our Parliament, my Lord will bless him with his Paradise, I hope. [[The AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers are in order, and the voices are in order of the AK Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and the voices are in order of ……]] Once again, with these thoughts, Turkey wishes that our Great National Assembly of Turkey, the year of the 26th Year of the Third Legislature, should be full of achievements, my love and respect to all of you. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2017-10-01sit01spe0004par0118	[[AK PARTY, MHP and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, since there are no other issues on our agenda today, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 3rd 2017) to discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you.
