tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Adana MP Necdet Üðüvar Ünüvar, who wants to mark the 95th anniversary of the release of Adana and Ceyhan district from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the day of the salvation of Adana on January 5th, and tomorrow is the day of the salvation of Ceyhan on January 6th. First, I would like to begin by celebrating the days of our salvation, both Adana and Ceyhan. Dear friends, the history of Adana, the culture, the economy is one of the most important cities in our country, home to many civilizations. Ages of cities have centuries of stories, the place where history flows, Adana. As an inn of history, as time passes, he's always been there waiting for him. As the drops of blood fell on his land, he blessed the future generations with stories, knowing the value of those who dwell on the blessing of his land. January 5th is a time when Adana wrote it as an epic, not a story, an epic that has been in our language for ninety-five years. I remember the heroes of that epic and our sacrifice with mercy and gratitude. January 5th is always a consciousness in our hearts and sometimes a poem in our language. The most memorable of those poems is the poem of Arif Nihat Asia, which we all know. Arif Nihat in a poem by Asia O the white and red ornament of the blue skies, My sister's wedding dress, the last covering of my martyr, The light, the light, the wave, my flag, I've read your epic, I'll write your epic. I'll dig your grave, I'm going to break his nest. Where you wave, no fear, no sorrow, Give me and me a place in your shadow. Not in the morning, not in the day. The moon star in the dorm is light enough. My history, my honor, my poetry, everything, And the earth - you know it well. Wherever you want to stand, Tell me, I'll sew you up there. Arif Nihat Asia wrote this poem in Adana on the night of January 5th just seventy-seven years ago, under the tired light of an oil lamp. But we're glad that the light of this poem is shining bright today, and our flag is flying wave by wave. That's the day of January 5th. January 5th is always a date, but there were people who wanted to invade our country that day, and today, in fact, the thoughts of those who wanted to invade it before January 5th continue. The attempt to invade July 15th comes at the very beginning of them, but there's a very important difference: 95 years ago, those who wanted to invade our country had French, Italian, Greek uniforms on them, but on July 15th, the traitors who had taken the honorable uniforms that the nation had entrusted to them had also bombed this veteran's place. But our nation, which has been thrown into the square by our President's call, has said to the MPs who have come to the House and are waiting for this place under bombs until the morning, stop the occupation attempt on July 15th. But, dear friends, this invasion attempt will continue. But so do we on that January 5th in Adana, on January 3rd in Mersin, on January 6th in Ceyhan, on January 7th in Osmaniye, on January 8th in Erzin, on January 9th in the Four Ways. Our apocalypse has entrusted us not only with his homeland, but with that spirit as well. But we have to be careful. In Adana, Beşiktas, Ortaköy, while the Russian Ambassador was shot, and while Turkish citizens of Turkey and foreign citizens of Turkey who had guests in Turkey were shot on New Year's Eve, those terrorists were essentially shooting him, not this, but us, because they want to shoot us all because they want to categorize terrorism according to its place and time, in fact, serve the purpose of terrorism. To that end, dear friends, we must protect our unity because our state's integrity depends on our nation's unity, so we must keep the spirit of January 5th alive forever. On this occasion, I salute all of you, the salvation of Adana on January 5th, and the salvation of Ceyhan on January 6th.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0003par0034	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan who wants to talk about Artvin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, at the very beginning of my words, I salute the High Council. First of all, when you say the problem with Artvin, the problem with Artvin is Cerattepe. There's trouble again in Cerattepe, and I don't really want to have this conversation, but I'd like to share some things with you about it. I didn't say it in words, so I brought statistics and documents today. My dear friends, look, an institution in central London publishes something that says there are 100 cities in Turkey where tourism is the center of tourism. In them, five provinces from Turkey enter the group. One is Istanbul, one is Antalya, one is Mudla, one is Edirne, one is Artvin. ▪ Artvin says it is one of the most important cities in tourism. Now, come on, I'm going to share another piece of data with you, to see where I want to go from here. There is data that TÜİKbook has explained. According to TÜİK (TİK) data, Turkey is the safest living il Artvin. Look, I'm not publishing this, the state's official institution says that the safest place to live in Turkey is Artvin. This is the state's institution, and I want to share it with you in the interest of the public. Why did I share all this, dear MPs? Now, there was a Cerattepe hearing on 19 September in Artvin. Before September 19th, the governorship of Artvin made an arrangement for Artvin, such as a favor, and said: "There may be incidents in Artvin. " For a month, even a poster was banned in Artvin. Now, think of a city: Turkey has a state of emergency, Turkey has no normal living conditions related to the state of emergency, and Artvin has extra applications. Dear MPs, there is no rallying in Artvin, no banners, no meetings, no march, no sit-ins, no rallying. Who puts these in? Governor of Artvin.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0005par0045	It's also forbidden to protect nature.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0004par0047	As soon as the Governor of Artvin was in office... he was scheduled to begin his mission in a day. He didn't know Artvin, and he didn't even know where he was going to work, and he couldn't find his own apartment. One day he made a decision in advance, and he said: "These are forbidden in Artvin. Now, my dear friends, if the most peaceful province, Artvin, is the most beautiful il Artvin, then why is Artvin Governorate putting this up? I'd like to share with you what this is all about. Because there's a businessman in Artvin who's taken over the state, dear friends, a businessman who's taken over the state. Now there is a businessman in Artvin, the governor of the state, the state's security guards, and no armband; who instructs the state. Who is this businessman? The businessman who received the contract at Cerattepe, my dear friends. Look, what am I talking about with Cerattepe? There may be an incident at any moment in Artvin, and at any moment, we may face a sad incident. Look, about Cerattepe, the Artvins, the party of every political mind, the mayors, the mayors, the lawmakers, we got up, we visited Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu. We told Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu: "Look, there is a current judicial process that must be waited until the end of this judicial process. I thank him, thank him, and say, "Yes, we will not interfere with Artvin until this trial is over." Who said that? Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of the period. My dear friends, from Artvin Mayor's website, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu has stopped the mining company's work until the end of the legal process in Artvin Cerattepe. The legal process is this: I know how that package decision was made concerning the Rize Administration Court, and I know how the judges there have been changed, and I know that the new delegation is being told how to decide. Don't think we're buying it. We're not buying it. But now, before the legal process is completed, before the process of the State is completed, they say: "We will intervene here. " The preparations for this continue, dear friends. So I'd like to get the attention of all public opinion, Parliament. I've asked the Prime Minister for an appointment this month from Mr. Davutoglu, who had previously left his post, and so far no one has returned to me on December 13th concerning his request for an appointment. On November 30th, I requested an appointment with Mr. Prime Minister regarding the people of Artvin. The AKP's members of the group are here, and they've called before, and we've gone. So what now? Why is he surrendering to a mining company, the government of this country? I have to ask you this as a local MP, my dear friends. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to share something with you of the Home Secretary, and it's gone. When Mr. Secretary Artvin visited -- then he was the leader of a political party -- when he visited the Green Artvin Society, he said to the Artvinites: "O Artvinians, the rulers of the Green Artvin Society; I congratulate you, you defend your country. What has changed now?" I'd like to share this with you, there are a lot of words to be said, and I can't grow them in five minutes: Artvin Cerattepe can intervene at any time. This intervention is an unfair violation of the law. I'm warning the governor, and I'm warning the Home Secretary that whoever intervenes will be under the influence. As I finish my words, I say that Ceratepe will not be defeated, nor will the people of Artvin be defeated. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0006par0055	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Siirt MP Kadir Yıldırım, who wants to talk about claims that Kurdish language institutions have been closed. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0007par0060	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, both the Istanbul Kurdish Institute and the Institutuya Kurdî or Stenbole have been locked up, and the door has been locked. Locking on the door of the Istanbul Kurdish Institute is actually a lock on Kurdish's mouth and tongue. We've all had this lock in our mouths. Since its establishment in 1992, it has been doing research only on Kurdish language and literature, organizing courses, preparing educational material, and bringing currencies into the light of Kurdish classics to meet its loved ones and readers. The works of Melaye Ciziri, Fekiye Teyran, Ahmadi Hani, Sheikh Abdurrahmani Aktepe and many other Kurdish officials have met with their readers and loved ones through this institution. Thus, the key to the door of the institute has been applied to both the mouth and the tongue of these great ones. The institute has done and done its best to keep Zazaca alive, which is noted by UNESCO as being in danger of disappearing. In this context, works of grammar and literature related to Zazaca have been brought up and brought up in a serious sense. So, this institute has done and done what the government and the government can't do or don't want to do. Look, Zarok returned from the mistake of shutting down TV, and everyone was pleased with this positive turn, and he did not fail to thank me for it. Closing this institute is as bad a mistake as shutting down Zarok TV. It's a virtue to turn back from this mistake, and if there's any trace of virtue left, please show it. I'm going to start the visiting marathon to make this mistake go away. Our Minister of Culture, our Minister of National Education, our Prime Minister and Mr. Naci Bostancı -- standing in front of me, addressing him -- I will do whatever it takes, please help. Everyone goes to Mersin, but unfortunately, we're going to reverse or you're going to reverse. Look, I'll pass on a couple of anecdotes about this institute, so that you can see where you're from and how you're coming from, and how you're not from Mersin. Among those present at the reception for the founding anniversary of the European Union was the late Ironel President, which means the institute was officially invited and received. The Turkish-Kurdish Dictionary issued by this institute was a gift to Mr. Abdullah Güle and Mr. Bulent Arinc, and they were pleased to accept this gift. The state and government have taken advantage of this institution as an official account of the meaning of the new Kurdish surnames of those who changed their last names and other official translations. It's what the institute was then, it's what it is now, it's what it is. And again, look, even Saddam didn't do it. Saddam, on the one hand, was fighting, burning, destroying, but on the other hand, he officially approved and approved the publication of the Kurdish Academy of Science in Baghdad, which was published and published by Kurdish writers. So even Saddam was going to Mersin, but you're going to do the opposite. As I said, Mr. Naci Bostancı is an academic. I'll take him with me and pay him a visit if I have to. I'm waiting for Mr. Bostanci, if you have some in your pocket. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to go into the electronic system, and I'm going to take turns making a promise to the MPs who are demanding word. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0009par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. My motions, my speeches at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, my press statements, my talks, and Turkish Airlines, have stepped down, even partially. Finally, the evening flights from the Army Giresun Airport to Ankara Esenboğa have begun after January 15th, but that is not enough. Turkish Airlines must redesign the flight plan, and direct flights to Istanbul, Antalya, and other airports -- particularly İzmir -- have been cancelled in the past months -- must be re-established. The airport must also be opened to international flights, considering the local foreign population. The government elders who land on private planes must also consider our citizens. The right of transportation is for everyone, it has to be used equally. I'm speaking to two Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli, Numan Survivmiş, and local lawmakers who are using this airport for official and private programs, and I'm warning Turkish Airlines officials. The Army Giresun Airport, which will be used by 1.5 million populations, should not be assumed as an alternative, a secondary, abandoned airport property, and we will not allow it. Airport, tourism, especially our provinces...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0011par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, according to media reports, saying no to the presidency was considered a hate crime. Five people were taken into custody in İzmir yesterday evening because of the posters written on the wall, which had been taped to the walls. "No" is not a crime, "no" is a democratic response, "no" is not a crime, "no" is not a hate crime, "no" is a constitutional duty. The immediate release of young people who have called for secularism, such as "Shariata," "No to fascism," "No to the presidency." Such practices create a climate of conflict and tension in society. I'm calling on the presidency, the Prime Minister, the presidency, or else we'll never get out of this society's conflict. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0012par0084	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. None of the students who won the Petty Officers' Exams before July 15th had a chance to continue because the schools were closed. Also, those who were a student at Petty Officers' School and graduated and got ranked have lost their rights again because their schools have been shut down. In the same way, students in military schools, Towers and other military schools were also victims because their schools were shut down. We expect that by conducting security investigations, those who are guilty, those who have connections, those who have access to them, those who are not guilty -- the parents of students are looking for us every day -- again, those who have finished school, or those who are seniors, and those who are in the middle classes, will be required to continue in their schools. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0014par0089	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. President, 99% of the businesses in our country are the SMEs. By means of COSGEB, our shop will be given 50,000 euros of interest-free loans. We are pleased when it is said. We were just congratulating the government that 250,000 businesses have applied, only 15,000 have received, and those who have received the loan are the government's city council members, executives and friends. And in my knowledge, I'm telling you, be assured, it's a conscience, and I want them to know that we're not gonna let this go. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0014par0093	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0016par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today is January 5th, the day of the salvation of Adana. As the heroic Adanans resisted the imperial forces in 1922, and if they have won, today one man will resist those who dream of ruling. On January 3rd, Mersin wrote the history of Adana on January 5th and fought with honor. Therefore the fate of Adana and Mersin will be written together, and they will grow together, and they will be strengthened together. Dear friends, today is January 5th, the anniversary of the removal of Berkin Elvin, the symbol of the honorable resistance to travel. If he had lived, he would have been an 18 - year - old boy today and would continue to resist AKP's polarizing, oppressive, and oppressive attitude. We have a saying to Berkin: We will build beautiful and honorable tomorrows, just like his smile. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0017par0100	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0018par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Platform 2016's report, women's murders increased in 2016 and 328 women died. And unfortunately, this report also points out that only 5 percent of our women who lost their lives were protected by the state, and 95 percent of them were not even protected by the state. In fact, it is the duty of the state to prepare such reports, to investigate their reasons, according to the Istanbul Convention, where Turkey was the first signator. However, the statements of those who run the state, the regressive grounds they feed, the ignoring of women's murders and violence, the late-night motions to deliver our children to Ensar darkness, the woman who refuses to be a mother is half. The words, such as the ones who reject motherhood, can be milled against kicks. To keep our women from dying in 2017...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0019par0106	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0020par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of those who associate terrorism with religion and hold religion responsible for terrorism may want to wear religion down, alienate religion, strengthen their case against religion by using terror, fear, and frustration. On the other hand, since terrorism is not an easy task, the means to motivate the terrorist to act at the cost of death are not only religion, but religion is among them. When it comes to religion, those who are not religious may want to be seen from the face of the Bible and use the religious ones to achieve their goals. The religious people should also know that religion and Islam in particular do not allow and respond to such acts, much less encourage terrorism. Those who are religious or not from terror will be harmed. They are the heedless, the ignorant, and the treacherous.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0021par0111	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0022par0113	Mr. President, the destruction of Samsun Metropolitan Municipality is under way in the district of Yörükler, Samsun district of Samsun Province, Turkey. There is a bird's paradise in the country. The life of Bird Paradise is vital to our people, to our nature, to the future. Sadly, in the 1990s dwellings in the area of the Yörık district were granted electricity, water connections, and housing permits. Sadly, after the June 7th elections, the Metropolitan Municipality began its destruction, and when the November 1st elections were announced, the destruction was abandoned; it is a pity that today more than 100 houses are being destroyed on this cold day of January again. This cruelty has to be stopped somehow. The great city needs to end its arbitrary practices. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0021par0115	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. President, you know we started 2017 as a month before the individual pension system began in January. In his speech on the individual pension system, which workers and officers will be forced to participate in against their will, the Finance Minister stated that the savings are low in Turkey, and that is the way to organise it. My question to the Finance Minister: Will you take a precaution on the waste of the AKP government that forced citizens to save money, and encourage government to save money? For example, in terms of the number of authorities, there are 9,000 in France, 10,000 in Japan, 11,000 in Germany, and 125 in Turkey. Are you going to start austerity measures starting with this number of vehicles? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0024par0120	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Arif Nihat is one of our precious poets who has touched our hearts with Asian poetry and translated our national and spiritual feelings. I'd like to finish with the final four verses of the poem "Fethah" which makes us all proud while we celebrate our poet Arif Nihat Asia, who has dedicated his life to education, who has made the nation's love and community's consciousness the best in his work: Let the broken clocks go wrong! The Chelebis are retreated and you're in the harems in the barracks! Come on, my lion, let the conquests begin. Come on, why are you still at war with yourself? You're the age when Conqueror conquers Istanbul. I cherish it, I salute it.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0026par0130	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0027par0132	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, over a year ago when Mr. Prime Minister was Minister of Transport, I gave him a report on the potential for development at Adnan Menderes Airport. Upon this report, he himself ordered the start of the red-tail flights of Turkish Airlines by telephone to the head of the Turkish Airways, Ilker Aycı (Turkish Airlines). He ordered direct flights from İzmir (Izmir) to increase the number of direct flights abroad. With Mr. Transport Minister as Prime Minister for over a year, there's still no progress. I want to know if the Prime Minister has no authority or if he's not capable of it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0026par0134	Mr. Copper...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0028par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting: Mr. Minister, Isparta Province, Yalvanç, Bahtiyar, Bağkonak, Cetince, Kurusarı, Koriyaka, the two-day snowfall in our villages has damaged the greenhouses of our producers. Some 2,000 marks of tomato and cucumbers have been damaged in 1,400 of greenhouses. These are all greenhouses built in 2015-2016. Everyone's in debt. What if the loan is delayed by a year? With no insurance, what money will the greenhouse be raised with? The debris that's been destroyed doesn't produce 10 percent of the usable material. In addition to the iron and nylon damage of the fallen greenhouses, our citizens have been deprived of producing. My questions regarding the issue that helped prevent immigration from village to city are: Do you intend to support the minimum loss of our citizens in this regard? It's a loan, and they're still paying for it.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0029par0140	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0030par0142	I'm asking the Prime Minister. One: In your time of political power, our country's inner and external peace has been broken. When and in what way do you plan to make peace with our neighbors and the outside world, especially and first, with peace? Two: When will you normalize our relations with our neighbors and Syria? Three: What is the total number of refugees who have taken refuge in our country because of your disrupting our Turkey-Syrian relations? What is the number of Syrians according to the provinces? How many Syrians have been granted the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey so far? 4) How much money has been spent on Syrians so far? Did the European Union receive the financial contribution promised? If he didn't show up, why isn't he coming? Have you made any attempt at this? 5) We demand the immediate release of young people who have been wrongfully arrested on grounds of secular propaganda. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0031par0148	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Four years have passed since sociologist appointments made by the Ministry of Health in 2012, but no new appointments have been made. Sociologists are not being observed in staff planning, and even more critically this area is seen as an unnecessary area. Health, education, agriculture, family, and sociologists are seen throughout the world as important and functional. In particular, sociologists receive critical tasks in education and health care. Although he graduated from our universities in such an important area, almost no employment is created. The ministry needs to make the sociologist's job description as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0033par0153	Mr. Mountainer...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0034par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 95th anniversary of the liberation of Adana from the enemy's invasion, the heroes of our struggle for salvation, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, I remember with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. I salute our beloved nation, the people of Adana, and all our martyrs and veterans, who have written a new epic salvation against the July 15th traitorous invasion.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0033par0157	Thank you, Mr. Mountainer. One minute of conversation is over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have requested a word. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 42nd anniversary of the death of our flag poet Arif Nihat Asia. Arif Nihat Nihat was born on February 7, 1904 in Çatkca, İstanbul; he died in Ankara on January 5, 1975; and between 1950 and 1954 in Adana, he was a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Arif Nihat is the Ulabatian Hassan of the 20th century, who raised the flag of Asian Turk to the sign of poetry. He is a poet who can successfully use all three of the syllables, aruz and free vizins in his poems, and deserves to be accepted as a good poet not only by the skill of the queen, but also by his wit, by his elegant inventions and metaphors. A passenger on leave of authority, also a poet of Kubbe-i Hadra; an artist of calm, peace and surrender; an artist of meaning, not of form, not of form, but of depth; a man of light showing the right goals. Although Arif Nihat has so many qualities, and some of his poems have been read over and over in the last few days, his name is not mentioned, its name is not mentioned, its name is not mentioned, its name is embargoed. For example, this poem is often used: We're low voices... The minarets, Don't leave me alone, God! Call those who have built honey on the wall, Don't leave me alone with no hives! Thou art without love, without thirst, without air; And don't leave me without a country! It's a Muslim home. Don't leave me without a Muslim! Certainly, there is a poem by Bayrak, which was taken out of the textbooks by the Ministry of National Education, for good, for good, for right. In his poem, the great poet says, if you have to read some of his verses: O the white and red ornament of the blue skies, My sister's wedding dress, the last covering of my martyr, Light, light, wave, flag! I've read your epic, I'll write your epic. My history, my honor, my poetry, everything: Love the earth! Wherever you want to stand, Tell me, I'll sew you in there! There's no way to understand why this poem is embargoed. He's got tears, especially nothing to say about it: Let the white country cry Let the milk lake cry Some in Caber. Why Firat, why Tigris, why Aras Born of me, not spilled to me? In the poem "A Flag Waits for the Wind" he also says about the hill of martyrs: The hills of the martyrs are not empty, The heroes await your land! And a flag to fluctuate; The wind is waiting! An orphan, an orphan, and an unknown soldier; His shrine suits this blessed hill The soil he lies in is clear, The flag he's holding is clear, Who says he's an unknown soldier? I cherish him. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0036par0207	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Timberson...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0037par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today it is known that Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım is going to Iraq to meet with Mr. Ibadi and Barzani. We hope that this visit is not for a war, but for a lasting peace for the peoples of the region, for the preparation of an agreement where the peoples of the region are represented equally. We've always said in Syrian politics that a peaceful policy must be followed. Government spokesman Mr. Numan Survivor says Syrian policies are wrong today. We're saying the same thing about Iraq now, that Turkish Prime Minister should go to Iraq with peace plans. A very sad incident occurred yesterday. A Turkmenistan national, compared to Reina's attacker, was exposed by a large group of people to lysine. Social polarization and distrust of the government, unfortunately, create this dangerous lynching culture. This person was an unemployed, paper-free immigrant who lived here and was deported, and it's really upsetting. Reina's attacker still hasn't been caught, and no one responsible has resigned. The ISIS people were released yesterday on the grounds that their municipality of residence was established in the court where they were released. You will recall that after leaving this Parliament for nearly 24 hours, the Deputy Group Chairman of Turkey's third largest party, Dear Ager Demirel, was detained and arrested on suspicion of escape. Today in Turkey, the number of imprisoned ISIS prisoners is 7 and there are no prisoners in the main case, so it is possible to see from here how Turkey is fighting ISIS. Today, a colleague of mine who's been in the Dogan group as Chief Counsel for years...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0038par0216	I'll turn on your microphone. Please complete.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0037par0217	...I'd like to express the detention of Erem Turgut Yücel again as a misfortune. We'd also like to ask, is the foundation of the operation against the Doğan group also the goal to soften the economic crisis by confiscating its goods? That's what we're wondering. Finally, I'd like to make a memorial: today, a child would be 18 years old. If Berkin Elton, whose black eyes we can't forget, were alive today, he would be 18 years old, and he would feel the joy of it. It's been a thousand and two hundred and ninety-nine days since Berkin was shot, and his killer is still unaccounted for. I salute the General Assembly, expressing that we share the pain of her family.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0039par0220	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0040par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 95th year of the liberation of the province of Adana from enemy occupation, I would like to express our gratitude and respect for all those who have worked in the national struggle, particularly Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mr. President, our Speaker is ill, and we wish him a speedy recovery. Thus, we were not able to meet with him face - to - face. As you know, as of Monday, a decision has been made towards the start of the Constitutional talks in Parliament. It is natural to argue that an offer and text, such as the Constitution, should be made, should be spoken in a way that everyone understands, in a way that is public, and in a way that everyone understands. Naturally, it is vital that parliamentary television be on the air uninterrupted from the beginning to the end of the Constitutional talks. Perhaps the ruling party won't mind the public knowing the talks here. Therefore, we would especially like to request that your president make an attempt to broadcast from the start of parliamentary television's Constitutional debates to the end of the public's right to information, enlightenment and information. Such a matter is a public need. In this regard, we will also present a petition. We've considered it appropriate to bring it up. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0041par0228	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The request you're talking about, the demand that the Constitutional talks be published on Parliament television, is undoubtedly -- I understand that you're reporting this to the president -- will be subject to a process by the presidency. And I would very much like to see these talks aired live on Capitol TV. With regard to your request, I'll make the necessary attempt in the eyes of the Speakership. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0042par0233	Mr. President, thank you. To Arif Nihat Asia, I ask God's mercy again for our great poet, who died on January 5, 1975. The poet said, "I can hear, but I can't explain." Poets are people who express the common voice of the nation what people can't hear or can't explain. In Asia, Arif Nihat is one of our great poets who collects people with the same sensitivity, regardless of their political ranks, whatever their discours. With his poem, we experience the sadness of the past; with his poem, we remember the flag, the sacred flag, which we will all gather under. There is a historical history of how the meaning of this common symbol can be described both by text and by poetry, which is important. Arif Nihat Asia is a great poet who translates this narrative into our hearts in a wonderful way. I congratulated and congratulated on the 95th year of Adana's salvation. We gave an Instrumental War. Once again, I give my blessing to Ataturk and his comrades. We are children of history. We are part of the river that flows from history to day...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0043par0237	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0042par0238	...parts of the river that flows from history to the future. We may have discussions about the past and the future, but we won't forget that we're moving in a certain direction inside that river, our common destiny and our future. The wife of Aytekin Kotil (18) İstanbul MP of the 17th term and the wife of Aytekin Kotil (17th term) who served as mayor of İstanbul has passed away. We know how much strawberry the politicians' wives are. We ask God's mercy for the deceased, and offer our condolences to his loved ones. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0044par0241	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I've just heard of the death of the wife of Mr. Aytekin Kotil. And I ask God for His mercy. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the establishment of the Parliament's research commission in accordance with the 104th and 105th Articles of our Constitution 98th and Interior Charter, in order to investigate corruption in Malaysia and find out if there are similarities in Turkey. Malaysia, the country of Southeast Asia, is teeming with allegations of corruption. On the grounds that allegations about Malaysian Prime Minister Necip Rezak were made as a donation of $681m from the Saudi royal family, the prosecutor dismissed allegations about the Prime Minister and closed the case. Attorney General Mohammed Apandi Ali explained that he made this decision because there was no criminal evidence. However, the fact that he had been appointed by Necip himself instead of his predecessor who was investigating the scandal of Apandi (Apandi) and that he did not explain why this huge donation had been made, sparked a stir for public opinion that corruption had been covered up. The scandal, which broke out in July 2015, claimed that about 700 million dollars were deposited into the Prime Minister's personal account from the public investment company 1Malaysia Development Bhd (MDB), which Necip had built in 2009 and was still under his control. Rejecting the allegations, Necip dismissed the prosecutor and his aide, who led the investigation between mass street demonstrations and calls for resignation. And he hasn't neglected to press the media. The following month, the country's anti-corruption commission said "the money came from a foreign donor." The final act in the corruption scandal was when the new attorney general announced that the mysterious donor was from the Saudi royal family. "There is no evidence that 681m dollars transferred between March-April 2013 were paid as bribes to Necip. " he said. He added that Necip had returned $620m because it was not used. Apandi, who did not inform on what the remaining 61 million dollars were made of, said the donation was caused by Saudi royalty and the prime minister. The United Malay National Organization (UMNO) of Necip (UMNO)'s party argues that they used the donation for the 2013 election campaign. The opposition says the money came from 1MDB, and the prosecutor covered up corruption. The United States, Switzerland, Britain and Singapore are also investigating claims related to 1MDB. The allegations of corruption in Malaysia are similar to that of Turkey. The rush of power to lose more and more votes carries many similarities, such as the fact that dozens of opponents have been brought in over the past two years under the law of security. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully present the establishment of the Parliament's research commission in accordance with Article 104th and 105th Articles of our Constitution and Interior Charter, in order to investigate alleged corruption in Malaysia, to determine similarities with Turkey. [[Artvin]] 2) Zülfikar Inönu Uniter [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 5) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 11) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Hatay]] 15) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] 20) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Kadirri Enis Berberoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by the Syrian refugees in the province of Kahramanmarash, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of the Parliament's investigation under Articles 104, 105. 1) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Mersin]] 4) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Isparta]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[Sakarya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] 18) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] Because of the civil war in Syria, which began in 2011, there was a refugee migration to Kahramanmarash. The city, with about 45,000 Syrian refugees, is at the top of our cities that are most affected by the internal turmoil in Syria. It has a negative effect on Kahramanmarash socially, economically and culturally. Some of the refugees live in tent cities with the population of immigrants from Syria, while others buy or rent dwellings. This is one of the major problems with the rise of real estate prices. Rent prices have also increased significantly. Some of the Syrians are regularly involved in smuggling goods into the country, some of which are practically occupational. A variety of goods brought in this way are sold either in the streets or in the workplaces they open. These products are not taxed or audited. The impact of work on public health is another matter. This has caused complaints about the negative impact of the county and county tradesmen. The measures related to the matter must be taken. Another issue is the problem of immigrant workers operating in agriculture, service and construction due to cheap labor. As the city has a high unemployment rate, the Syrian refugees are preferred because they are cheap workers and work without insurance, and they are causing the unemployment rate to increase. Since some neighborhoods and neighborhoods in the city have become dense Syrian settlements, crimes such as extortion, theft, violence, sexual harassment and battery have increased in the majority. There are disturbing acts in the city. Health, education, and many other social problems (pronouncer v. b.) It also causes serious complaints in the eyes of citizens. In Kahramanmarash, one of the major provinces of our country, it is beneficial to identify the problems caused by Syrian refugees and to open the Parliament's research to determine the measures to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to investigate the ineffective aspects of the Turkish staff regime and the problems of public employees and the solutions. 1) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] 9) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 12) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] 15) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 18) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] The staff regime is one of the key elements of public administration that regulates public officials' relations with the state in the process of performing public duties. Given the public servants' service and the audience they're addressing, their impacts and importance in social life are better understood. The most important feature of the public staff regime is that public employees are subject to status law. It is possible to collect the basic legal arrangements that form the Turkish staff regime under 10 topics. 1) State Officers Act No. 657. 2) Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926. 3) The Law of Judges and Prosecutors, 2802. 4) Higher Education Staff Act 2914. 5) A Statement of the Law relating to CSI personnel No. 399. 6) Work Law 4857. 7) Specialist Gendarme Law 3466. 8) Specialist Private Code 3269. 9) The Contracted Private and Private Law No. 6191. 10) The provisions that allow private status and employment in special organization laws. In Article 128 of the Constitution, the original and permanent duties required by public services, officers and other public officials, which the state, the state, the public economic initiatives and other public legal persons are obliged to carry out on the basis of general administration, are determined to be seen by the hand of their qualifications, their appointment, their duties, their rights and obligations, their monthly and other autonomy duties. On the other hand, "Every Turk has the right to enter public service. No distinction can be made in service except the qualities required by duty." It's called. Starting with the employment process, public employees have serious problems with their legal and financial status while working. The most important problems facing public employees today are as follows: 1) The lack of objectiveness of entry into work. 2) The lack of integrity in progress and rise. 3) The rule of favourability in service, appointment, and promotion. 4) The injustice of the use of exceptions. 5) The watering of existing legal and administrative regulations aimed at maintaining objectiveness. 6) The lack of union rights for international norms. 7) The definition, status, title and classification of officers and other public employees. 8) The price of injustice and lack of wages is that more than half of public employees earn income below the poverty line. 9) The motivation and efficiency of awards and punishment methods is not an enhancement of employment. 10) It is unfair and unfair, based on public harassment, threats, and intimidation. 11) The state's office becomes a party official. 12) A major imbalance between a pension and a pension. 13) Confusion of corruption and criteria in all areas. 14) The lack of legal and administrative regulations to prevent corruption and irregularities. 15) The individual law of personnel laws and organization laws, primarily the Law of State Officers, is an inequality created by unrelated regulations among employees. 16) Generally due to the pollution of the bag of laws and legislation created by the Turkish Cypriots, sloppy practices have led to a lack of public administration discipline. Investigating the problems mentioned in the personnel regime, proposals for solutions to the problems of officers and other public employees, the legal and financial status of public employees, improved working conditions, paralleled financial and social rights, increased service efficiency, satisfied public service. 13 years of AKP rulings have destroyed the staff regime through individual regulations, used as a means of access to office by exploiting exceptional employment practices, and in every area it is favourable by political experts. For this reason, parliament will be able to open an investigation into the defunct aspects of the Turkish staff regime and the problems and solutions of public employees. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday/1/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 3 June 2016, HDP MP Mr. Ferhat Encu and his friends lost their lives to 34 civilians as a result of the bombing of the state's fighter planes in the district of Uludere district of Şırnak province on December 28, 2011. At the same point on 29/05/2016, it was suggested that the parliamentary inquiry, given to the Turkish Parliament for the purpose of re-canvassing the villagers and identifying those responsible, be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and read in the presentations on Thursday 5/1/2017 and held in the same date of talks. The first speaker of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Ahmet Yıldırım, Mus MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0045par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I stand before you for five years for the establishment of a research commission to close a social wound by setting up a commission for the four parties of the Assembly, to address a case where the bleeding wound of this country and the wound is still open to the public conscience, where the bleeding continues. You know, this country, unfortunately, has been...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0046par0458	Mr. President, I apologize to you and to the speaker. There are 550 MPs, 31 MPs here. And in a moment, the vote will be passed. There's no Parliament like that. I mean, really, it's a shame about the light, it's a shame about the shift. I'm so sorry about the orator...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0047par0460	You go ahead, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0048par0461	This country has lost its ability to become a state for a period of time, unfortunately, to the institutional structure of the state because of the work of individuals and groups that the political government itself has done. So we're dealing with a distorted society and the political power that has the state's imagination. Unfortunately, we are faced with a political structure that defies the investigation of even convicted cases in a public conscience. Dear lawmakers, look, let's just say that events in this country that have hurt the conscience of society and have been condemned on the conscience of society did not begin with Roboski, nor would Roboski be the last. On 29 December 2011, five years ago, many children, 34 lives were torn apart by this country itself, and we traveled to Roboski village last Wednesday with three of my fellow MPs to reminisce about them, to share their memories, to read a Fatih at the head of their graves. For some reason, the power that prevented the perpetrators of this incident from being exposed was trying to trigger their own law enforcement forces to prevent us from reaching the village, as well as the mothers who had lost their lives and their own lives in the village went to the cemetery outside the village and tried to prevent them from reading Fatiha at the grave of their children. We moved from here to the village in nine hours, taking a three to three-and-a-half-hour journey to the village, taking our mothers, going to the cemetery, praying, and condemning those of our children who had been killed that day and trying to cover it up. Of course, I said it because it didn't start with Roboski. We haven't forgotten the Hope Bookhouse that was in this period of power. We did not forget that Uður Kaymaz, along with his father, had been acquitted without punishment by his security forces, who had given him 13 bullets at the age of 12. We didn't forget to tear a piece of a boy to pieces with a mortar ball from Tabantepe Station, and to gather the shattered body of Ceylan Önkol, and bring it to his mother's dress and bury it in a grave. We have not forgotten that Nihat Kazanhan was killed in the street in Cizre, or that Haji Lokman was dragged to the ground by the Panzer of the state himself after the murder of Lokman Birlik, and that all of this should be brought to this day without punishment. Of course, this country may have lost its scales of justice for a long time, but if there's a crucial parting point, it's Roboski. Because if we want to put an end to these injustices from somewhere, if we want to get the perpetrators of these things in the room, the easiest political and military connections can be solved and brought to justice is Roboski. Three days after the Roboski massacre, we know that the glorious New Year's Eve is celebrated in this country. And that, unfortunately, is the state policy that creates polarization and separation. With 34 lives, 34 children, 34 bodies, 34 lives that have never existed, and many dreams of education, family dreams, marriage and lovers, the perpetrators of a vicious incident are still protected in the middle without being illuminated by political power, without exposing the perpetrators. This is the shame of power. The most important thing governments have achieved as a whole in this country is lack of love, precious friends, and the environment of violence created by lovelessness. ▪ Violence is not just an attack moment. What we call violence, dear friends, is this perception, which was created earlier by social perception and power. And what we call violence is the climate of lovelessness. Again, even the alternative and hatred are steps after love. We must remember none of this, dear friends. Of course, in this country, power taught you not to love, to camp, not to look at each other as rivals, but almost as enemies, to teach you not to love. If it makes you proud, this power can be proud of it. And he taught us the shame of being proud of it. If we had been able to settle the score with Roboski, we wouldn't have lived last year without Suru, Cizre, Silopi, Gever, Şırnak, Dargegit. If we had dealt with Roboski, perhaps we wouldn't have encountered ruined cities. Because the armband that was encouraged there that day was willing to kill civilians, Taybet mothers, Miray babies, without having to separate them without weapons, so that they would end up without punishment. This can only be possible with the courage and legal environment that can be given by the authorities. And if it isn't, no one can do it on their own. Dear friends, let me address you in the letters of some of the 34 young saplings: I am Seyithan Enç. In 1990, when the air was heavy as lead, I was born in the village of Gülyaz near Roboski. Maybe we couldn't penetrate the mountains, it pierced our chests, black cannons. Send word to Ferhatla and Meknun. A young man was killed to be able to hear the voice of his loved one and collect his alimony, his helmet, when they called it the age of technology. Again, dear friends, another: I am rare Alma. I'm not a statistic, I'm a person; don't mention my death by numbers. I have a story, too. I came into the world as the second son of a family of 13 people. It was a sad season. That night 34 stars slipped out of the sky, 34 wishes, 34 breaths. I haven't lived 25 years of my life. Tell those who ask: "He is smiling now, and he is in the infinity of immortality." Perhaps you will be angry, but I have a word: If the bombs that killed me did not kill justice, I demand justice only. Isn't that justice? Last week, the mothers were telling us: "We don't want blood, we don't want anyone's life, we don't want anyone's death; we just want justice. " The shield plane is clear, the one who uses it, the one who gives it, the one who has it, the one who has it. We don't want anyone's life, we don't want blood, we want justice, we want justice. The justice we didn't find when we searched. That justice, as an injustice, acts with all its cells, knowingly, against our party, our co-chairs, our lawmakers, our mayors, our mayors, our mayors, the county, the county, our executives. Dear lawmakers, we know very well that all of this is an advanced century issue because of the lack of solution to the Kurdish problem, but there are things that are unknown, and there are things that are known: Yes, whatever we call it, we call it, when this war may be over, we may not know how many lives we'll be in this dirty war, maybe we'll spend more money on this dirty war, but there's only one thing that's unknown, and that's the truth is that it's certain that it's going to end with dialogue, and it's going to end up on the table. Knowing that, every day we waste the resources and lives of this country. We can't look at tomorrow with shame because we want peace today, and we want these conflicts to end. We're going to stand up for what we stand for today with our faces white and our heads held high, but we're wondering how many people will be able to defend this dirty war tomorrow. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm putting this together, Mahmoud Tanal interrupted me.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0049par0476	That's right, I did, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0050par0477	All right, here you go. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0048par0478	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the last thing we need to say is, look, let this country's energy, let this country's security energy, stop its mothers from memorializing their children's graves, please. If your intentions and your deeds are righteous, and you have clean feelings about it, everyone knows very well, the one who broke those children that day... for example, the mother says: my son used to bow down to kiss me, but they brought me a dead body, almost as long as I opened two hands in a blanket. And then I said, "Who's in this?" You have a child in five parts. They said. Yes, there is nothing to be done if the political power is still determined to embrace the shame, not expose the shame and resist. Please, I salute the entire General Assembly before we call it the METÖ and upload it to the newly-imagined criminal organizations.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0050par0481	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP against the People's Democratic Party's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0051par0485	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on the HDP group proposal. There's been a lot of talk about the Uludere incident here. First of all, 34 of our citizens have lost their lives, and I offer my blessings to 34 of our citizens and my condolences to their relatives. It's an event that really needs to be examined. As I begin my words here, I would also like to remember Idris Bauken. Before the coup incident on July 15th, he gave talks on parliamentary research motions, and I watched him carefully, as of that time, he said, really, the incident here is an act of sabotage to the AK PARTI government, to the state. He said he had to fall on the political institution in order to find out, and I haven't forgotten him, and I really have to hand it to him here. As a political institution, it's up to us to reveal material truth, to establish justice. In that sense, we, as a political institution, must do our part as a means to bring down the Russian plane and to reveal the financial truth in the Uludere incident, but this is a legal matter. As a result, all these conversations must be doing their part of the judgment around you; these files must be reconsidered -- as a lawyer I say this -- if there is a curtain on it, this curtain must be opened. As a result, we, as a political institution, can consider this matter at different times, in different environments, by meeting the group's deputy presidents... in this event, in the process of judging, within the scope of the powers vested in by the Constitution and our legal system, I accept the need to open the fog curtain here, as a lawyer. So after the July 15th incident, I think we should all agree that some things should be addressed in a different concept -- this is a reality -- but we have to say that a state can't bomb its own citizens on purpose and willingly, and that's a clear situation. If different structures within the state have dealt with this -- you're already demanding it -- I agree that these should be handled within a democratic and legal framework within the framework of a political institution. I also believe that as opposition parties and as the ruling party, we should do our part as a political institution. As a result, today, we intend to legalise Bill 446, which the public has been waiting for.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0052par0491	So you're gonna support this?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0051par0492	The group proposal was accepted yesterday, but it's not an excuse, it also believes that it should be handled in a different environment, and I'm offering it to the general council's discretion. I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0053par0495	Thank you, Mr. Can. In favor of the proposal...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0054par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0053par0498	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0054par0499	Just to get him to file a report...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0053par0500	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0054par0501	Look, the political power has made a statement of intent, but has not made it clear whether or not it will vote yes or no. I'm ashamed to say it, and I beg your pardon for the dead. Even if 34 living animals are killed like this in a country where a little democracy is run by law, there's an account on the legal plane. We're facing such a brutal death, a massacre. If they're sincere about this, think about it, for five years we've been facing the reality of political power, which has resulted in a lack of punishment in both civil and military courts, whose case has been closed, which has made statements in this parallel. So, let's look into the establishment of a research commission -- I understand from the speech of Mr. Can. They'll say yes, let's look together. And I think if we put a will into it, the judicial institution will take action. Thank you again.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0055par0504	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. In favour of the proposal, Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0056par0508	Mr. President, we're talking about a bleeding wound in our country, Roboski, Uludere. As a result of the bombings of fighter planes on December 28, 2011, 4 of them were killed by 13 years of age and 34 young people from the village of Midsu and Gülyazı, in the village of Uludere district. During the first moments of the incident, the perception that they were Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) was created. The incident was so grave that if such a perception was created, it was thought that we might be able to escape the responsibility of this event. But it was very clear that at dawn, even before dawn, 34 innocent people had lost their lives. So, what happened that day? There was a National Security Board meeting that day, and information came in front of the government. It's been watched for four and a half hours, young people on the Iraqi side, young smugglers, young border traffickers. At the end of four and a half hours, the decision was made: Yes, these are young border traffickers or peasants, but among them is the military wing commander of the PKK, Fehman Hussein. This MIT information came before the National Security Board. Finally, he was evaluated and evaluated by the Joint Chiefs. Yes, Fehman Hussein, the military wing commander who carried out the most heavily armed attacks by the PKK, was thought to be entering Turkey with them and was ordered to fire from the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the National Security Council. The Chief of Staff was in a meeting at the National Security Board at the time he ordered the air operation, and many innocent people died at the cost of the murder of Fehman Hussein. In those days, this incident was intended to be told to the public with another perception, but of course, the facts were too painful and hurtful to fit in the sack. Dear MPs, look, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the time has come out on this occasion, and he said that this incident will not remain in dark places. Over five years passed, and after a review of the Interior Minister's report over five years, he was not even allowed to investigate. That was the first review report that was opened. It's on the dusty shelves of the Home Office. In order to turn into a criminal case, the case that should be turned into an investigation has been closed, waiting. Second, this incident was investigated by the Human Rights Commission, and eventually it was a mistake. It was tried to be closed by AKP members -- each of the CHP's and other opposition parties have shown problems on this issue. The second one was done that way. Third, the investigation conducted by Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has been ruled untraceable. This non-observation decision came to Ankara, came to the Joint Chiefs of Staff due to lack of duty. The General Staff's Military Prosecutor's Office has decided not to follow up. After the appeal, the file went to the Air Force Military Court. Three members there, the president said the responsible should be tried. But the other members, the decision that there will be no prosecution is correct. The case has been closed, Mr. Ramazan Can, because they say there is no prosecution. Therefore, there is no case that walks in the leg of the judge, walks in the Ministry of the Interior, and walks in the House. The families were desperate. The case is currently in the European Court of Human Rights. Isn't it a shame, my dear friends, that a country has a sense of justice for its own citizens, a European Court of Human Rights, and that in such an important, grave event, it doesn't serve as a duty to the state, so it's a shame to have their families dragged there? Is that the idea of being a government? We call it justice. Look, the government doesn't work without justice, my dear friends. Yesterday, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu testified to the police for exactly three hours because he abused his position. Turkey has untouchables, untouchable. Why can't it be touched? Because in this case, I've been telling you all along, Roboski, from the moment I served in the Human Rights Commission in the Uludere incident, it's the top of the state. Whoever's on the National Security Board, in the taking of this decision... hold on to the Chief of Staff of the Time, whoever's at that meeting, it's a matter of public knowledge, not just any incident. So it's trying to be blacked out, cooled down and forgotten. That's the painting, that's clear. Now, my dear friends, you know what families want, families want justice. They're very honorable people. Look, this is Mehmet Ali Tosun, the 18-year-old boy who lost his life. You know what his mother says, Adile Tosun? ▪ All we want is for the perpetrators to be discovered and determined. We've been deeply insulted. We cried, so that other mothers would not cry. They rejected the demands of compensation, and pushed them away with their hands. They buried their pain, let no other mothers cry, but let the perpetrators come out. Again, the mother of Shirvan Encu, of those who died, says: "In the morning I sent my son, Shirvan, to the border trade. We said we'd be back in the evening, and we'd have dinner, but we arrived at the funeral of my Shirvan. We don't want anything from anyone, just let the perpetrators be judged, let no mother suffer or cry anymore. Isn't that a righteous request, dear friends? Now, the AKP spokesman who just spoke said, let's do his thing, the judiciary is already doing his thing. He didn't do justice, for one thing, let's know these distinctions, and Congress didn't. Political institution, yes, come on, let's do it. Five years later, the former Prime Minister, the current President, has a saying that this incident will not remain in dark places. Let's get it out, guys. This is the place to do it. Let's reopen this case and discuss it again in our own sense of justice. These families care so much about the sense of justice, and they really deserve it that we should not cause emotional dissolution, and they are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey. All of our people who live at zero point in Iraq are connected to the state of the Republic of Turkey, but one of the most important guarantees of commitment to the state is the sense of justice. Now, why won't the sense of justice get there? If they don't have a sense of justice, won't they have an emotional breakdown in their heads, why doesn't justice reach us? Now, for a very long time, there's been a perception operation going on with these villagers for five years, but look what these villagers have done, my dear friends. Eight months after this incident, a military vehicle collapsed in the village of Gülyazı, where the incident took place. Nine of our soldiers and one of our rangers lost their lives in this village where our citizens live. Do you know who was in charge of that military vehicle first? These families who lost their children are gone. They pulled them out of the vehicle, tried to get them to the hospital, and Emine Ürek, whose son died in the bombing, says: "We ran at that moment, and I heard a soldier who was badly injured in the accident shouting, "Anne." I took the head of the soldier, put him on my knee until help came. When I saw the soldiers who lost their lives on the ground, I remembered my son, Emine Ürek, a mother whose son died in the bombing. The village chief says Hashim Encu: "Our villagers carried the wounded, and the whole village mobilised. Families aren't enemies of the military, they're our sons, too. What could be the sin of the poor soldiers here in what happened to us? They became the young men of this village who held the hands of the soldiers we saved wounded, who comforted and comforted them. The mothers of those who lost their lives in the air raid cried for the soldiers this time. Roboski, the people of Uludere, the villages of Midsu and Gülyap deserve much justice, dear friends. Let's listen to your consciences, and we'll all support this motion of investigation together and at least make them feel that they're holding a warm hand from the House. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0057par0524	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Yilmaz Bronze Bart's MP against the proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0058par0528	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. HDP group proposal has been requested on December 28, 2011: No one has ever been punished, although most children have been killed five years since 34 civilians were killed by the bombing of the state's fighter planes in Uludere district of Şırnak province. Last time, the Constitutional Court rejected the peasants' applications in accordance with procedure and the road to justice was exhausted in Turkey. In this context, a parliamentary research commission is asked to be established in order to investigate the claim that the victims of families were still victimised and that the villagers were bombed again on the same spot on May 29, 2016. Dear MPs, the loss of 34 of our citizens as a result of air operations on the Iraqi border five years ago has deeply wounded us all as a country, with all political parties at that time who had opinions about the reasons for the incident and the discovery of those responsible, our government has taken a close interest in the relatives of our citizens who lost their lives, and has been treated sensitively at the point of the removal of their victims and paying compensation to their relatives. There have been investigations launched regarding the incident, the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights has investigated, and the judiciary has reached some conclusions. Before I go into the details of this, I would like to first pass on to you where the investigation, the investigations by the judicial authorities, is at what stage. The Chief of Staff has launched an investigation into the incident, the Interior Ministry has appointed investigators, the administrative review has begun, and they have also submitted their report to the Human Rights Commission's subcommittee of the Turkish Parliament for Human Rights. After the incident, Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office launched an investigation, issued a mistrial on the grounds that it was related to the military mission and sent the case to the General Staff's Attorney General's Office. The General Staff's Military Prosecutor's Office has ruled that there is no room to prosecute five suspects, staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, on the grounds of an inevitable error. The objection to the decision issued by the General Staff's Military Prosecutor's Office has also been rejected by the Air Force Command Military Court. The relatives of those who lost their lives in the incident submitted an individual application to the Constitutional Court on July 18, 2014, and the application to the Constitutional Court was granted a 15-day deadline due to the lack of power of attorney's power of attorney. If the lawyers of the applicants had submitted the power of attorney, the file would have continued to be seen in the Constitutional Court as of this time, and the ECHR would not have had to go yet. So I'm going to point out to the reason that the internal legal routes mentioned in the research motion are being exhausted, and for reasons that I'm going to explain later, the internal legal pathways haven't been exhausted yet. Of course, this is a motion for research on June 3, 2016. A lot has changed since then in Turkey; the July 15 coup attempt took place, and many events in the past have come to be reconsidered since then. The chain of events that began with the February 7th MIT crisis to end terrorism, which led to the leak of Oslo talks, and then the destruction of 34 of our citizens in Uludere, after which the internal turmoil that was attempted to be launched with the travel events, then the attempted December 17-25 trial coup attempt, followed by how the PKK, DAEŞ, and DHKP-C (as well as the July 15th coup attempt had been carried out, and how other terrorist organizations had been brought up in different parts of our country as a result of the attack against our country. Our nation sees the facts of these events in its background, and realizes that these events are being done to bring our country to its knees. Therefore, those who have treacherous plans on Turkey will never achieve their goals. Some commanders who served in the region during the Uludere incident were arrested after the July 15 coup attempt. There will be evaluations, of course, in the ongoing judicial processes of those who have been alleged to have played a role in the process of the coup. It is clear that it is the duty of the judiciary to investigate new allegations, to assess each incident separately within the scope of these coup investigations, and to uncover material evidence related to these events, and these investigations are a matter that the judiciary must certainly do. In connection with the Uludere incident, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has also conducted an investigation into the Human Rights Commission's Subcommittee. With his power there, his opposition and the views of lawmakers are reflected in the report. There are also issues mentioned in the opposition of our MPs as to where it might come from. All of this can be accepted as evidence by the Parliament's documents, both by the judicial authorities and by the authorities who conducted the administrative investigation. The most important reason for the Uludere incident is actually the ongoing terrorist incidents in the region. If there are government officials or military officials connected to the government and state who want to put the state in a difficult position, they must be discovered by the judicial authorities investigating the July 15 coup attempt, and we have no doubt that it will be removed. Our security forces are in the area now to fight terrorism. Without terrorist activities in the separatist terrorist organization -- across the border -- in the borders of our country, especially in the southeastern region, there would be no need for such action, and perhaps there will be no need for the inevitable cause of error. For this reason, the PKK and other terrorist organisations are the first to blame, and the judicial authorities will, of course, assess them as to the fact that the incident took place and that there was a chaos in our country and that some stones were responsible for building the road to July 15 coup attempt. Those who embrace and express the separatist goals of the terrorist organization should know that Turkey is protected despite the indivisible integrity of the terrorist organization, all traitors and those who use them, and all political parties in the parliament at the point of its protection are actually in consensus and should be. Between the Turks and our Kurdish citizens, there is more than a thousand years of brotherhood law. The unity of history and fate is the antidote to all separatism. The separatist terrorist group that hasn't been able to raise a brother fight in over 30 years will never succeed again. I would like to point out that we stand by the statements made by our President after this incident. Yes, the Uludere incident will not be behind dark areas. He said, "Our President and I hope will not be left behind." Those responsible for the deaths of 34 of our citizens will surely be found, and we, the AK PARTY Group, always express that they should be found. My hand, which occurred five years ago in Uludere, is the duty of the judiciary to find and punish those responsible. I would like to point out that the judiciary should investigate these allegations, especially with the new situation, which emerged after the July 15 coup attempt, and that the internal legal path has not yet been exhausted due to new allegations. The Constitutional Court's decision is actually a formal decision, not a fundamental decision. The fundamental decision is that if there are military officials in Uludere who have been investigated for the July 15 coup attempt and are currently under arrest and are in charge of the decision-making mechanism, there will be investigations against them as well. This is a criminal investigation. It's a parliamentary investigation that's requested here. You have access to material evidence through parliamentary research, but the criminal investigation, the criminal investigation of the judiciary, whoever is responsible in this case, is a search for material evidence to uncover, and that's what you need to do. And to do that, there are cases of coup, so let's follow these cases together, let's follow them as Congress, and in this matter, let's see who's responsible for 34 of our citizens in Uludere, let's all of us, let's see who's responsible, let's let the responsible be punished, and I salute the General Assembly with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0059par0543	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0060par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0059par0546	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0060par0547	According to the Civil Charter of 60...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0059par0548	I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0060par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, now that he's a speaker of this case, he's talking about the fact that the President is a follower of this case, he's definitely going to expose his perpetrators, but the same President, as Prime Minister of the era, is the Prime Minister who thanked the Chief of Staff and the command of that period for this successful operation, let's not forget that. Another, Mr. Necdet Private, is decorated in this matter, which will not be forgotten. It's our only goal, like the Muglu case, 33 bullets, and whatever you do, it won't be forgotten. Look, July 15th is an excuse for the coup attempt, and it looks like they're gonna try to stack it there. We'll look into it. When we say, "Put this matter in perspective, we won't allow AKP to understand. It's obvious that that's the intention now." Yes, Roboski gives judgment to the victim, but he does not hesitate to punish the victims.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0061par0555	Complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0060par0556	Thank you. Today, our detainee Ferhat Encu's brothers and cousins have lost a total of 20 relatives, and he has been arrested six times for seeking justice for Roboski, before becoming a Ferhat Encu MP. That's one of the files that got him arrested today. I'd like to present this to the General Assembly in particular. The coups, however, are prepared by authorising security forces, such as this, by authorising them with the laws imposed by this government in June for their indiscriminate use of force and their duties. I'm saying that if you break these laws, you're going to put this country through more coups. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0062par0559	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0063par0560	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0062par0561	Mr. Bostanci, come in. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0063par0564	Mr. President, thank you. In 1948, Karl Jaspers gave a lecture in Germany, describing the great trauma that Germany suffered, describing the political, legal, moral, and metaphysical responsibilities that led to its responsibilities. True, the tragedy in Uludere is a matter of such responsibilities. From the moment of the incident, the political institution has set up a will to conduct an administrative and judicial investigation in which a language, a style, and an approach is based on an understanding that the suffering is common to the nation. Basically, it's to share the pain that the political institution can do, to touch the pain, and to show the will necessary for judicial and administrative investigations, which has been shown.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0062par0567	I'll turn on your mic. Please complete it.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0063par0568	Mr. President, there's also been a subcommittee in the Human Rights Commission to investigate and investigate this incident. So, within the present mechanisms and possibilities, the political institution has given it a will to fulfill its responsibility. The question now remains as a question mark whether the legal side of the matter will be re-examined as a subject of the judiciary in the direction of new evidence. Our hope and hope is that the law results in this work in a way that satisfys the public conscience of justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0062par0570	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0064par0574	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit01spe0062par0575	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çanaak, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Minister, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Kara, Mr. Kösse, Mr. Becelier, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Böke, Mr. Rights, Mr. Pine, Mr. Candy, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Arslan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'll give the merger ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0062par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0065par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0062par0004	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0065par0005	I'm sorry. A moment ago, when this research motion was being discussed here, 31 MPs were here, and that was not understood enough. In accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code, I think that when all MPs are present -- the vote will be used -- they must be met again, our non-listening friends should listen to it again, and they must be put to the vote according to it. Otherwise...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0062par0007	Mr. Tanal, there has been no motion to continue the talks under Article 72 of the Civil Code, and if he had come, I would have submitted it to your votes, and the General Assembly would have made its decision. So there's nothing I can do about it. Ill. - Exposure Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday/1/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Ankara MP and Group Deputy President Levent Gök's parliamentary research motion, which was submitted by Turkey on 5/1/2017 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the basis of the understanding of the factors leading to the economic crisis, preventing the deepening of these problems and creating a road map to fight the crisis that needs to be taken, is number 1017. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations of 5/1/2017 Thursday and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. Here you go, Mr. Sayek Böke.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0066par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Turkey's economy faces an extraordinary situation. Today, Turkey stands at the door of a real sector crisis caused by the collapse of its governance and state device, and if the government continues to ignore the situation, it is capable of triggering a financial crisis and a banking crisis. The banks are solid. It's called the public finances are strong. It's called the public finances. It's hard to predict what kind of impact the real sector could have in these areas if there are no measures. In the face of this painting, the entire political institution has a fundamental responsibility, and this responsibility is a historical responsibility. The government has a responsibility to change this situation, and we have a duty to warn and offer solutions before the crack test is broken. The purpose of this motion is to ensure that the measures are taken to prevent and prevent this situation. The economic reality that we're experiencing today is a situation that has deepened with the influence of the recent political risks on the structural problems of economic policy that have been under way for the past 14 years. Remember, 14 years ago, when everything was fine in the world, when the liquidity was abundant, when the global conjunctive was good, when there was a lot of interest in rising markets and Turkey, the AKP also took over an established institutional order. The central bank's independence, the creation of independent institutions and boards, the institutional roof of financial discipline, was completed at that time. At this point, they had two forks in their path, either to turn it into an opportunity for the country to develop competitive potential, to strengthen production infrastructure, to reduce external dependency, to increase savings, or that opportunity would be used for them and would be transformed into a personal political opportunity, unfortunately, the AKP chose the second path; it inflated the consumption bubble; an economy was built through debt; a fellow businessman, a co-worker, a part of the media order, and they found that they were prepared to build this sidelined economy and the subsidiary economy that they found ready to build. The government has been wiped out, my man. The logic has returned, the bureaucratic and institutional tradition has been violated, and the economy has been unconstituted to support the order of the allies. As a result, the economy's external dependence deepened, our production potential became increasingly corroded; basic problems such as unemployment, poverty were not solved. In fact, it was a very good opportunity for Turkey at the time, but, unfortunately, the steps that Turkey's economy needed were not taken. Education and university were looked at ideologically, not invested in human resources. Instead of creating an economy that generates added value, the economic and political relations of fellow sergeant capitalism have been prioritized, thus leaving Turkey's economy vulnerable and vulnerable to external shocks. As a matter of fact, Turkey first began to be remembered among the fragile five, and in recent weeks it is now remembered among the fragile three, not the fragile five. The economy, which was conducted through the order established from 2002 to 2007, evolved into a period when steps were taken to deepen AKP's distorted order, and the economic model of AKP came to its borders, as expected from 2013. For this model, the sea ended in 2013. As of 2013, the global conjunctive also began to change. In May 2013, the American Central Bank announced publicly to the world that it would reduce the liquidity that spread across the world and that there would be no global abundance of money in the coming years. At this point, there were two things that had to be done in Turkey. First, reforms that were not made with political preferences until then should be done immediately. So that the vulnerability would be reduced and trust could be instilled. Second, the political risk would be minimised, the democratic strengthening steps would be taken so that the perception of risk would change. The main course of this was to take progressive steps towards commitment to the state of law and democracy. So, have these been done? Unfortunately, the answer is no. What political path did the AKP take? He chose the continuity of his own power over the future of the country once again. The reform has not been reformed because if reforms were done, the political order that sustains this power would collapse. Where there's a legal state, where democracy is, there's no press, there's no corporate business, there's no trolls attacking all of us, and then there's no political wheel that's inside the AKP. The more polarization, more separation, the more political risk was created, and eventually the political risk became a perception, and you came across it as a picture that directly affected the economy. What was the result? The table is fixed with data. Since then, our national income for each person with $12,480 in 2013 has been prone to decline. At the end of 2015, it's $11,014 per person, and it keeps falling. Turkish lira is the 12th currency that has lost the highest value of 150 currency in the last two years. In 2015, our students performed much worse in international exams than in 2012. In short, things haven't been going so well since 2013. In the last three months, this decline has accelerated. From October 3rd to today, Turkish lira has lost the highest value of 150 currency in the period of October 3rd, not 12th, but 3rd, 150 currency. In the first 11 months of this year, bounced checks have increased by 3% compared to last year, and the protested checks have increased by 20 per cent. The trust index is going downhill. The Economic Trust Index dropped from 80.6 in October to 70.5 in December. So something happened in October; something like that, the economic cost to Turkey was too high. Just go back and look at the calendar. Two things happened at the beginning of October: on October 3rd, the Council of Ministers announced to all of us that it would extend the State of Emergency, and on October 11th, a regime debate that had never existed in Turkey suddenly began. So why did these developments on October 3rd and October 11th upset the economy? Because on October 3rd, with the extension of the State of Emergency, a trend and a fact have been evident in Turkey for years. The preference to extend the State of Emergency has made the lack of authoritarianism, democracy, the fact that no one's basic rights, which are not even their property, are concrete enough to be perceived by everyone. By recommending a permanent regime change that will make the State of Emergency permanent, you have created the expectation that this course will be permanent, but the citizen is paying the price. If you say how, we are all poorer today, our money is worthless in every sense. The minimum wage is $433 in 2016, and today it's $360. Turkish lira has lost 20 per cent since October. We know it leads to inflation. We're already seeing it in the pump; from October to today, the price of gasoline has increased by about 10 percent, the price of its engine has increased by 13 percent. Life is more expensive. Bridges are up. The health contribution has increased. Life is more expensive for all of us today. The raises reached double digits, but the minimum wage, the officer, the pensioner, a raise was expected in one house. In short, your regime discussion, your State of Emergency, makes our citizens every day poor, all of us. This painting shows us that it was the State of Emergency that actually burned a citizen's pocket, brought Turkey to the brink of a crisis, your love of the House regime, and broke out of democracy. You are the biggest political risk of Turkey and the risk of economics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're warning you: this isn't going away. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0067par0044	Thank you, Mr. Sayek Böke. Master Erhan, Samsun MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0068par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, we're going to talk about the economy of Turkey, but what data are we going to talk about, the economy of Turkey, I don't know. So, based on the latest series of data explained by TÜİK. There's really nothing to talk about, everything has to be pretty good. Mr. Mehmet Simsek is here. If this series is true -- I mean, I'm obsessed with this serial issue, but -- the TÜİK will have to remove all other economic statistics from its website. The government needs to throw away all the policy documents, all of them, and we need to write a new story. I mean, we don't know what to talk about. But the latest current issues are now out of the series, so the spear is too bad to fit in the sack, and since we've all seen it, we can still, of course, find something to talk about. As I've always said from the beginning, the Turkish economy has performed seriously well from 2000 until 2007. We've explained over and over again what the reasons are. However, after 2007, the performance of Turkey's economy was broken. And it's been a lot more broken lately. Let's talk about the new series. When we look at seasonal corrective growths, look, we have three data points this year, two of which are negative. So in the first quarter, the Turkish economy narrowed 0.4, 1.1 in the second quarter, 2.7 in the third quarter. In fact, sure, sometimes things get brought to July 15th stuff like that. The 15th of July, of course, has had a devastating impact on this economy, but as we have said since 15 July, the Turkish economy continues its bad performance after 2007, much worse, in the last year-and-a-half. Now, the unemployment rate... the AKP is breaking its own record at unemployment rates. Turkey's largest unemployment rate has been seen in the 2009 crisis. After that, unemployment rates have improved a little bit, but the level that it's coming from now is the highest unemployment rates in the history of Turkey, if we keep that period out. We can already see it in the market, wherever we go. Worse, one fifth of young people are unemployed. I am neither employed nor educated, and the proportion of young people who say, "I am 26 percent." So more than a quarter of young people are neither employed nor trained, where are they? Why can't we find work for these young people? Everyone already knows how much debt goes up. Every day we see the performance of the dollar dry, how the economy of Turkey separates from other countries negatively. I mean, every day the wolf runs towards a new record. We know the problems of our tradesman, the COBIs, the industrialists, the people of agriculture. Now the reserves we've always boasted of as reserves can't afford short-term loans in Turkey. Look, this is a very important radio. I mean, there's always 2002 comparisons like this, and in 2002, the Turkish economy had about 1.7 percent of its short-term debt, but the reserves are currently unable to meet short-term debt. That's the basis of the vulnerability, so that's one of the reasons for this run in dollars, of course, there are other reasons. Inflation took place at 8.5 per cent. Of course, we will unfortunately see the negative effects of recent courtship increases over the next year, especially in the first months, on inflation. So it's going to affect everything from top to bottom. So as the Justice and Development Party governments, we've done good things. It's said that we've done good things. But here, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you, how much of the transference of Kur-enflation has been reduced from the previous ten years, so let them give us an account of that. Now, in a reforming economy, this transition is reduced. The latest statement from the Central Bank is 15%. So if the rate increases by 10 percent, this would have a 1.5 point impact on inflation. I think it would be extremely helpful for the government to give us an explanation of its past and future. That's what the markets need. Now no one can see in front of you. So this -- I'm just going to say the details again -- he's already lost his economic compass for the new year, and there's no compass. I mean, we used to be at work, our investments are falling, or our spending, budget spending, I tried to explain them with graphics last night -- the rate of national income is increasing. We're supposed to clean up around here. We're calling it. Now, after the new year, all the stories changed, and it turns out that our savings were increasing, our investments were increasing, the share of state spending is not increasing in national revenues, it's falling in the opposite direction. Well, now this country needs a new policy set. Who's going to build this policy set? The government. If the government can't do it -- we've already submitted similar motions before -- the Parliament should really seize the business in that sense. So if the government can't do that, if it's in a state of weakness, as parliamentary members of this country, we need to set up a research commission here as the Parliament of this country and look into it. It's the economy of Turkey that we're talking about right now. Now, the public finances... I'm saying that in 2000, in 2000, in 2000, in 2001, there were very serious reforms on public finances. Finally, in 2003, Law No. 5018 was issued, so these reforms were really crowned, serious reforms were made. Turkey is already the most important element in the face of all this hardship, the power of public finance, of course, there are distortions here. But in the fundamental philosophy of the reforms that we're doing in the coming period, there was a strict financial policy that was being implemented by giving extra interest, but beyond that, the scope of public finances had been expanded, black holes had been closed, the scope had expanded. Now, with these public-private partnership projects, the scope of the budget has narrowed down again. I say: Turkey's budget no longer shows the real picture, our budget system does not show the risks of our next period. We need a budget structure that shows these risks, which will include them, and the government is not giving any information about it. During the budget, I asked the Minister about him -- our minister in charge of the treasure -- and we're still waiting for the answer to that question. So what are the risks of these public-private co-operation projects, what are their studies, what are they, we're waiting for them. It's not just us guys -- it doesn't matter that I'm waiting, I'll talk when it's here, I'll sit in my seat -- the market's waiting. Why is the dollar like this? Why isn't there an investment in the country? Why isn't there production in the country? Because of these, these uncertainties don't produce, they don't invest in this country. That's why unemployment is rising. So we have our own capital, domestic capital, domestic investor, and the foreign investor is waiting, and they have to see it. The Minister of Development said there were 53 billion dollars in the stockpile of this project, the stockpile of public-private cooperation projects. But, you know, the contracts are higher, and we don't have any numbers on the risks it's going to take next semester, so this place needs to be kept very transparently. Look, we see the risks after the projects start to come to life. We see the scandal at Osman Gazi Bridge, it's a disgrace. Such fancy openings are being held in this country, but the future of this country is being mortgaged. You know, in two years the government will pay the entire investment price for the purchase guarantees to the firm there, in two years. If so, let him who claims otherwise come to us, and let him say, 'My brother, you are wrong.' Now, the price has been lowered. This price has been dropped and brought down by what, how, who's going to take the fall? Passage fees were dropped at Osman Gazi Bridge. The Minister of Transport says that when their roads are made, when their roads are opened, they will be feasibility. We don't know if it's gonna happen yet, two or three years from now. So, brother, why are you making the mistake of planning? Open the bridge in two years, complete their path, open the bridge like that. I mean, do we have to pay someone? Who has the right to squander this nation's resources like this? If it was so necessary, people would pass through. Why can't you get through? What technical work has been done about what price elasticity is, and prices are being lowered? I'm not saying the prices don't go down, of course, lower the prices for our people. But you give high price guarantees in dollars like this, you give them prices, and then you keep them, and then you tell them to change their dollar. Mr. Minister, tell me, for God's sake, as an economist: change dollars, buy gold. Is there any logic to gold? What we want is to get your dollars into the system. We import the gold. We'll cash the dollar, buy the gold, demand the gold, import the gold. Do we import gold with TL, or don't we do it with dollars? Who's giving the President this mind? In OECD countries... OECD says we're in a high-income country group. What about a president in this country, according to a report in the morning paper? And no apologies. Turns out it wasn't like that. Is this the interpretation of the national income level, to view the revision as a blessing from God? Why don't the ministers of the economy give us a statement about this national revenue revision? I'm not dealing with the TİK President, we're not dealing with the President, we're dealing with the ministers of the economy, we don't know who he is, Mr. Lightning or Mr. Canicli? Has anyone heard the Department of Development's statement on macroeconomic issues, a statement from the Undersecretary of Development? But they're responsible for macroeconomics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, there's no such thing as... There's no way to get things done in this environment. The basic problem is trust, lack of coordination. There's no trust in institutions, no trust in political institutions. There's nothing in this framework that we can't come up with, except that the economy is bad. Thus, such research will be helpful. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0069par0065	Thank you, Mr. Master. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0070par0067	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0069par0068	Just a moment, Mr. Baydemir. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0070par0072	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I apologize to Mr. Baydemir. But right now, bad news is coming from Izmir, and I hope the consequences are not severe. News of an explosion near the Izmir Courthouse has begun to arrive. While the Minister is here, I have made a promise to him to share the information he will receive with our Assembly from Izmir (Izmir) or from the authorities in Ankara. What's the size of this explosion, what's its content? The issue is not yet fully clear, but reports of an explosion in İzmir are constantly coming in. If Mr. Secretary informs our House of this, I think we'll be giving the public some information as well. I'm sorry to disturb you in that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0071par0076	Thank you for this information, Mr. Sky. Now it's time for Mr. Baydemir. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0072par0082	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group in favor of the Republican People's Party's proposal. First of all, when we look at the motive of the proposal and the content of the proposal, the Turkish economy has entered a critical economic period pointing to the collapse of the economic order that the AKP has intentionally and willingly created for 14 years. In Turkey, which has had extraordinary days in the economy, production is shrinking, revenues are slowing down, even lowering to negative levels, the number of new companies is increasing, the number of new companies is falling, unemployment is increasing in double households, even though production has narrowed down, and the current is increasing. To be honest, I'd like to say that I agree with this entry and with a lot of the data involved in the proposal, that we agree. On this occasion, Mr. President, as the HDP Group, whatever political party it comes from, and whatever politician it comes from, we will continue our efforts and efforts to become a partner of the right proposal, and we will continue to improve our efforts. So, in light of these facts, how do you get out of here? Mr. Orator said the test that hit him. What must be done so that this test that is about to break should not be broken? I believe that if we can recommend this, read this, and understand today's economic crisis, we should start by questioning the diseased economic model built by the AKP over the past 14 years. Mr. President, in order for an investment to be invested and an economic model to serve development, I would like to stress once again that three basic hairs are essential here: if human beings are focused, they have to be nature-oriented, and their historical heritage has to be focused on protecting cultural heritage. So what is the essence of the economic model that has been in this country for 14 years? What is the basis of this economy? What does a country stand for and what does a country thrive on? First, it develops with industrial production and agriculture. For example, if you build a machine, you win it that year and the next year you win it with what that machine produces. In a progressive agriculture, it's also guaranteed that citizens' bellies will be fed in the simplest sense of the word. That's why these two sectors are the most basic sectors. Others can only develop through these two sectors, but they can grow. Unfortunately, we regret to inform you that over the past 14 years, there has been a major reduction in industrial and agricultural production. By the end of the 1990s, one third of the national income we produced in the country came from industry and agriculture, and now it has fallen below even a quarter. So, the two most basic activities of social life have been a constant retreat. Well, if there's no decent industrial and agricultural production, how could he have grown in this country in 14 years? Let's say it's foreign currency, construction investments with hot money and private consumption. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has willingly accepted and implemented this economic model. Industrial production requires long-term investments, scientific education, culture and a publicist look. Sadly, however, the AKP came to power in 2002 and did not have time for such details. That's why he's so quick to invest in construction that doesn't require too much technical knowledge or savings, and doesn't produce a productive value. On the other hand, with credit cards and individual loans, he lent the community money. Look, I'm asking you to pay attention here, that's what's behind the perception that prosperity is increasing in the country. Not people's income, but their debt has increased, but workers' share of national income has been permanently reduced. Real wages have almost never increased, the distribution of wealth has been corrupted. The AKP's power did so on purpose because its economic ideology is based on cheap labor. In this period, the difference in inter-state development has not been resolved, especially in our region, the Kurdish house has been burned down and forced to emigrate so that it can work under the harshest conditions of exploitation. In short, what grew up in Turkey was capital, not workers. But one of the reasons we're rolling around in an economic crisis today is because there's an unhealthy capital growth. The debt is the man's whip. They'll say so. Never forget that if you borrow money, it may motivate you to work harder, but it should motivate you to be able to pay the debt and put something on it. However, if you borrow a thousand lira as a company and you produce 800 liras with it, you need to borrow even more to maintain the same level next time. So it's not the whip of debt, it's the sword of Damocles, it's what's hanging over you, it's what's in Turkey. Because of diseased growth, which is not based on efficient production, the debt from companies has continued to grow, and today more than half of our national income goes to foreign debt. So, the infrastructure of this crisis is this fast, unhealthy, inequal development model that AKP has adopted. At the same time, for 14 or so years, the AKP ran this non-profit model, based on foreign debt, but when the solution table was turned over and opened up the OHL with a murderous policy, and when the Middle East cake was cut off, he said, "It was one of the fuelists of war in Syria, and that's when the diseased economy fell, and the foreign capital started to run, and the private sectors that came into the throat had already half of its debt for no reason." So, the slowing production has come to a standstill, and as a result, unemployment, poverty, corruption, burden, labour again, laborers, workers, people, us, all of us, all of us. Now, we have to ask the government, the imperialist states that plan an economic coup, the external maharaxes that don't attract our development, ask people: Oh, when you come to power, this capital was good when these dynamics brought these resources, but when the conflict came, when the table fell down -- they want security -- and when the capital escapes, do they become bad now? No. It's the cost of false economic policies and false political policies, or rather giving up the process of resolution, which is taken from our society, from our people, from our people. Turkey is ranked third in the world and first in Europe in business killings. In 2016, at least 1,956 workers were killed in work killings. From 2002 until today, at least 17,000 people, 17,000 workers, died in business accidents, in business killings, during the AKP's reign. Mr. President, not really, under the circumstances, if you take interest down, even if you hand out free money, no one would dare invest in this country. Because no one's capital is secure right now, it's not safe. When will each company be appointed trustees to my company? Everyone has anxiety and anxiety. If we really want to get out of this economic crisis, then let's get rid of the State of Emergency; if we really want to get out of this economic crisis, let's give up the fight, the war policies that we've fallen into, and let's put a radical, liberal democracy in front of this country, not based on foreign debt, but on publicist, democratic, productive economy; come, legal, blocking democratic politics, preventing HDP co-chairs and lawmakers from putting a radical, liberal democracy in front of this country, and together we'll put its test and test on its own terms. With these feelings, I salute all of you with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0073par0095	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. The last speaker against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Emine Nur Günay, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0074par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you and the Supreme Court. Yes, let's remember the world's developments and its reflection in the global economy. The weak global demand, continuing after 2008, slowdown in global trade and investments, low and unstable commodity prices, diminishing efficiency increases, low pay levels, problems in the banking sector, countries' increasing public debt, Brexit, geopolitical risks, change in national political power and uncertainty, in short, the entire world faces chain crisis waves. I will not talk about the positive dissolution of Turkey in the financial discipline and banking sector, a fact the whole world has expressed. And when I analyze growth rates, I think it's unfair to comment by taking a single quarter, you have to evaluate it in a holistic approach. I'd like to share with you the 2016 growth figures in the IMF's latest report. World average 3.1 per cent, developed countries 1.6 per cent, European Union 1.7 per cent, United States 1.6 per cent, developing countries 4.2 per cent, developing countries outside China and India 2.1 per cent. Turkey is 3.1 per cent; it is 3.2 per cent in our medium-term programme. In short, Turkey's economy is relatively good in its growth performance. Let's not forget, after a traitorous coup attempt on July 15th, we're talking about a conjunctural conjunctive of domestic and external maharaxes in co-operation, systematic acts of terror, civil wars and reflections of our border neighbors, and cross-border operations. I ask you, what country can face all this? What country can pass such a variety of stress tests at the same time? We need to analyze the economic data in a holistic approach, let's not do negative perception management by pulling a quarter of tweezers. This country is open to every constructive suggestion, and with its power and opposition, we will all skip this difficult time. As for the industrial production index, the budget-free industrial index has increased by 2% year-on-year. I just want to share with you that, as you can see, 2015 and 2016 there are industrial production indexes, and we are clearly seeing the decline caused by traitors, and after that, thanks to this saint nation, through the faith of our business world and so much work, this exit has been achieved. And as you can see as of October, we're seeing an industrial production index above the 2015 average. I'd like to thank the business world, our industrialists, and our employees, who believe in this country, work with all their might. Unemployment continues to be a problem around the world. The European Union has a high unemployment rate, especially in some countries where young unemployment rates have increased by over 50 per cent. General unemployment rates are 23 per cent in Greece; 19 per cent in Spain; 12 per cent in Brazil; 12 per cent in Italy; 10% in France; 6.8% in Canada; 11.3% in Turkey. However, we should also consider Turkey's participation in the labour force. Participants in the labour force, de-season-free, are 52.8 per cent from the same period of the previous year, while employment rate is 46.8 per cent. In Turkey, employment was created between 2007 and January 2016 - 7 million people in the last eight years. This is not a small number, it is a higher ratio than some European countries' populations. As for the number of companies, let's take a look at 2014, 2015 and 2016. The number of companies opened from 2014 to 2015 has increased by 27 per cent, while the number of companies closing has dropped 13.4 per cent. The number of companies established as they move from 2015 to 2016 may be estimated to drop by 4 per cent, but since the December data are not yet clear, the rate could be lower. However, the number of companies that have been closed has also declined by 20 per cent. The data mentioned in the proposal is just the number of companies that close as of November, but we also have to consider the annual reflections and the companies that open. The changes in the ribbon are data that should be evaluated on the six-nation dollar dry index and the 10-nation Bloomberg dollar index. You also need to consider the impact of the election results in the United States, the effect of Trump. The dollar index increased by 3.63 per cent in 2016, while the same index increased 4.44 per cent between 8 November and 31 December. The Bloomberg Spot Dollar Index increased 2.84 per cent in 2016, while it increased 5.67 per cent between 8 November and 31 December. In short, the results of the election in the United States have a very clear impact on currencies and courtship indexes, as well as on Turkish lira. As I finish, I have a request from my esteemed deputies: Let's look at the facts as a whole and consider them in a trend. I repeat, this country will fight in unity and unity, and with its power and opposition, we will survive this difficult time. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0075par0109	Thank you, Mr. Günay. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0076par0111	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit02spe0075par0112	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 16.43
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the Republican People's Party Group was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's enough to decide. The proposal was not accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law, and with the draft of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. According to Article 91 of the Civil Code, the proposal was held on Article 11 in the first chapter of the Law Bill 446, which was considered the main law under Article 91.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0077par0013	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0014	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0077par0017	Sir, a while ago, I testified in front of the Minister that there was an explosion in Izmir, that the terrorists were killed, that information is coming in, that he was injured, but there is no doubt that information pollution should be avoided. There is no sharing of information that has come to us here, but it's official that Mr. Secretary has a need for information about what happened in İzmir, what happened. Mr. Secretary, if he's been able to get information within this time period, if they can shed light on our House, our public opinion, I think everyone will benefit from that. We repeat this request, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0018	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Do you want a word, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0078par0020	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0021	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0078par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the event remains fresh. Of course, all aspects will be examined, and our concerned minister will probably make the necessary notification shortly. So at this stage, it would be inappropriate for me to make an additional assessment. But I hope it's a failed terrorist attempt. As I said, our concerned minister will probably make the necessary statement shortly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0025	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are three motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the law on pension chest number 446 shall be changed into the "payment of the price difference" in the second sentence of Article 11 of the Law Bill. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Saffet Sandzaklı Kamil Aydın Erkan Haberal of Deniz Depboy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 11 of the Law bill to the amendment of some Laws and Laws under the Law under the Law of the Retribution of the Republic of Turkey, which is 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Pine Tule Karabık Ünal Demirtaş The first joke of Article 29 of Mining Law 3213, dated 11-4/6/1985, has been changed as follows. "As of the date 11/9/2014 for the mining work of public institutions and companies operating under this law under the law, the amendments dated 5/1/2002 and continuing under the Law on Public Contracts No. 4735 are paid by the amount of the amount of Rödovans under which there is an increase in the amount of the amount of Rödovans under this Law, dated 22/5/2003 and in Articles 4857 of the Business Law on Articles 41, 53/63, and in Articles 10/9/2014, and in accordance with Article 6552 of the Law. The basic and procedures for the price difference are determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Public Contractory Agency for contracts signed under Law 4735 and for reödovans contracts." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0079par0055	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0056	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0080par0057	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0075par0058	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0081par0061	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 11th Amendment to the Law and Law Code of Retirement Code 446, which has been discussed in the name of my party and group. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to see another example in this law of trying to pass a bag of laws on issues involving many different areas of society. Of course, this bill clearly reveals problems in the economic area as well as overall. It's not right to expect economic recovery from these bags because the bags the government has prepared fill the saddlebags of the one who doesn't always lay them down. Every economic tribulation is indirectly burdened on the back of the people, and it is possible to see that in this article. If you remember, the minimum limit of the minimum wage paid to the mine workers after the Soma massacre was higher than the current minimum wage. The difference between this substance and the current minimum wage and the salary given to the mine workers is being paid by the public. However, it is in no way acceptable for the public to be paid in public, to care for the profits of private companies, given that the public's mines are run by private companies under the Public Contracts Act 4735. The difference to be paid under Article 9 of Law No. 6552 must be met by private companies running the mines. It is not for a worker, a worker, a worker, to destroy and destroy the people's sweats and savings in such a manner as this. In many ways, public funds are returned with more than enough money, such as SVV, VAV, taxes, fines, road fees, bridge fees, and so on. At least let private companies pay this much. It is not right to create an unfairly elite, privileged cut. In the already functioning system, already rich people add new gains to their savings daily. What happens is to the poor, the poor, the poor. The United States METAL-HIS Union recently published a study of the Centre for Class Research. According to the study, the annual inflation declared 8.53 is 9.35 per cent to our country's employees, and according to these rates, the annual increase in hunger border increased by 78 liras to $1.602 lira, and the increase in poverty limits increased by $2246 lira per year to $5.066 lira per year. The minimum wage is $1.404 today. The government is so busy with the winnings of the investors that it does not see or see the problems of the underdogs and workers of the perishing middle class. Dear MPs, Parliament's main duty is not only to protect the rights of the capital holders, but also to protect the rights of the oppressed, the poor, the wronged, the outcasts and the other side of society. It is not a favor to protect everyone's right to live, the dignity of humanity and the rights that come from the Constitution, but there is a sense of power and governance that can't even protect people's constitutional rights, let alone their constitutional rights. In Istanbul, in Ankara, in Diyarbakır, in Suruç Province, as bombs explode every day, as news of a new massacre is being read, people cannot return to their homes in the eastern part of the country, fearing to leave their homes in the west, while lynching culture becomes a little more common every day, social tension and polarization becomes so visible. It is not right to prepare and make a bag of laws to support the capital and to make it an economic gain when the workers who died in Soma, Şırnak, Shirvan, and the mines were unaccounted for. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0082par0070	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0083par0071	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0082par0072	Yes, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, but there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0083par0074	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit03spe0082par0075	Yes, I'll use the electronic device to determine if there's enough to decide whether there's enough to decide. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 11 of the Law Bill 446, the decision of Mahmoudjaladet Gaydalı and his friends for the amendment was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the amendment motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. We continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 11th Amendment to the Law of the Law on the Amendment to the Law and Laws under the Law of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Ünal Demirtaş (Zonguldak) and his friends The first joke of Article 29 of Mining Law 3213, dated 11-4/6/1985, has been changed as follows. "As of the date 11/9/2014 for the mining work of public institutions and companies operating under this law under the law, the amendments dated 5/1/2002 and continuing under the Law on Public Contracts No. 4735 are paid by the amount of the amount of Rödovans under which there is an increase in the amount of the amount of Rödovans under this Law, dated 22/5/2003 and in Articles 4857 of the Business Law on Articles 41, 53/63, and in Articles 10/9/2014, and in accordance with Article 6552 of the Law. The basic and procedures for the price difference are determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Public Contractory Agency for contracts signed under Law 4735 and for reödovans contracts." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0084par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0082par0017	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0085par0018	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0082par0019	Ünal Demirtaş, Zonguldak MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0086par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. Today, from June 7th to today, we have lived the last link of a terrorist chain in İzmir, hoping and wishing that none of our citizens had lost their lives in İzmir. Therefore, no matter who terror comes from, no matter who it leads to, once again I condemn and curse with violence and hate. Dear MPs, today is the 26th year of the great mining march in Zonguldak. One of the biggest hits of his 80 hits was to the working class. The coupters oppressed the workers' rights in Turkey, and after the coup, the miners in Zonguldak were the workers whose rights had been seized for many years. Mining workers began their strike on November 30, 1990, under the leadership of Hemsi Denizer, president of the General MEDEN-HIS Union. From November 30th to January 4, 1991, all 48 thousand workers from GEN MADEN-İSK were on strike. With the arrival of workers in the surrounding provinces, Zonguldak has taken place in the largest labor movement in Turkey's history. But the workers haven't been paid in over a month. Winter fell, some of the workers who participated in the protests were fired, but supplies and the solidarity of all the Zonguldak people with the strikers gave the workers a great deal of strength, and a city tradesman, villager, officer, and fellow workers stood with the miners on the street. Workers, intellectuals, artists all over Turkey supported Zonguldkan miners. By January 3, 1991, the negotiations with the government were inconclusive. On January 4th, miners decided to go to Ankara from Zonguldak. However, 1,150 buses to take workers to Ankara were blocked from entering the city. On the morning of January 4th, Mr. Denizer looked at the gathering of miners and blocked our cars. We can't drive, but we have feet, we'll walk. He made his statement, and on January 4, 1991, the great mining march began, and the miners walked with their families for five days. As the march continued, the walkers multiplied and the power began to fear the workers. When the workers arrived at the Mengen, the power brought out the dozers and the ladle. Finally, the government stepped back and announced that it would sit down with the unionists and that the march was ended by Denizer, the leader of the march. So, this strike, this march has become history as the largest labor movement in Turkey. After this march, privatisation policies in Turkey had to be postponed for 12 years until the AKP came to power. Dear MPs, after this march, Zonguldak was punished. First, Zonguldak was divided into two more provinces, Bartin and Karabuk; then the Taşkömu Foundation was tried to shut down. In 1991, there were 48,000 mining workers left today in TTK. Many problems have been added to current problems, as no problems have been solved during the 14-year AKP rule. The most important of these problems is unemployment. Zonguldak, who once was a German member of Turkey and was emigrated from all over Turkey, unfortunately began to migrate. Today, not in Zonguldak, but in Istanbul, in Bursa, in Soma, in many cities of Turkey, there were Zonguldaklar neighborhoods. The capital of work has turned into the retirement capital. The Zonguldak population grew smaller, its economy smaller, and Zonguldak became a bankrupt city. Dear lawmakers, the redevans executives at Zonguldak are bringing the mines to the economy, which are at the disposal of the TTK. Redevansian companies were employing 5,000 workers, but in recent years, companies have had to put out workers because of rising costs, and now the number of workers has dropped below a thousand. A thousand workers were left unemployed at the Alacaagzi operation in Eregli. He's bid twice, but no one's taken the contract. If this material becomes legal, thousands of workers and thousands of workers will be able to get jobs again, and the discarded stone coal can be restored to the economy. For those reasons, we support this clause. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0087par0031	Thank you, Mr. Demirtaş. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the law on the 446-trial pension box, which is currently in session, shall be changed in accordance with the law on the payment of the fee difference in the second sentence of Article 11 of the Law shall be paid in accordance with the Article 11 of the Law and Law. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0088par0038	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0087par0039	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0089par0040	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0087par0041	Erkan Haberal wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0090par0044	Mr. President, I have been promised the 11th Amendment under Law 446. We are not going to oppose this clause. And I'd like to thank Mr. Zonguldak, who brought in this clause from here. It's a unanimous issue in the Commission that we, the National Movement Party and other parties, will not discuss the problems of the mine, the miners, the employers that we will not oppose the matter. As we study the problems of mine and mine workers in this country, we need to evaluate the mine workers separately, and the mine employers -- and the employers who take a large portion of this from the public and others in the form of rejection -- separately, the country's energy deficit, energy policies, and also the areas where these mines are being removed socially, economically, sociologically, and environmentally. We said mine workers. Mining workers have serious problems, and despite these laws, they are still going on. Job security in the mines is a serious problem. From 1983 to today, there have been more than 2,000 casualties. The subcontractor and uncle work system is still in progress, the subcontractor system is more work, less pay. Unfortunately, it continues with the principle. Labour health measures are not being taken. Workers work without health conditions. The production pressure of capital is increasing day by day, and collective agreements based on performance are being made. The double minimum wage for workers is the right to pay -- which is a law that comes out of here together with our support -- is being violated by the bosses; our rights are collected from workers as road fares or hand paybacks. The absence of workers' weekly work hours remains unregistered. The collective agreements are not for the rights of workers, but for the rights of the owners of rejection. Workers' rights to organize are being taken away every day. The workers who face the strain of unemployment or death have chosen to close the mines rather than provide job security. More than 3,000 workers were fired after the Soma massacre alone. In terms of energy policies. Oil has 40 years in the world, natural gas has 60 years, coal has more than 200 years. Turkey is importing 97 per cent of its gas demand, 87 per cent of its oil needs. In Turkey, the known deposit of stone coal -- I don't say linite -- is just 1.3 billion tons of stone coal reserves, which is a hundred and eighty-year-old production, but we are persistently and persistently buying imported coal, which we are handing out imported coal, and we are persistently using imported coal in power plants. When we call it "ithal charcoal," we can't not talk about Zonguldak, where the regional effects are most assessed is Zonguldak, Zonguldak, the region that has suffered the most damage. Zonguldak Turkey's first province is the republic's first province. In 2002, the number of employees at 15,774 dropped to 8,000, but we're buying imported coals again. Norm gave the staff 14,000 of your government, but the number of employees is 8,000. The coal that's been produced has fallen from 2 million to 245 thousand tons to under 1 million tons, but we're still buying imported coal. Zonguldak has a annual capacity of 5 million tons, but we're still buying imported coal, which is still being brought coal from Ukraine to the thermal plants in Zonguldak. Zonguldak is -- I called it a regional assessment -- there are a lot of thermal plants, and it's estimated that there are 80km or 13 thermal plants with given CEDs, but we're buying imported coal from Ukraine. Air pollution in Zonguldak is three times the world average, according to the World Health Organization's determination, but we're still buying imported coal. The loss of migration in Zonguldak is too much for Turkey's population growth, it has migrated every year, it has reduced its number of employees, our workers in TTK have decreased, but we are still buying imported coal. Coal: It has a deposit of 1 80 years. Coal: 5 million tons of capacity detected by your government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we extract coal under a million tons and import coal from abroad. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0091par0057	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "property " given in Article 12 of Law Bill 446 shall be changed into" the right. " Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Toğrul Osman Baydemir Kadri Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark Number 446, we propose and propose that the declaration of "givement" in Article 12 of the Law shall be changed into "put on trial. " İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Sea Depboy Saffet Sandzak Mevlüt Karakaya Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of the 12th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Tulip Carabinieri Utku Cakirözer Musa Pine The following sentence has been added to Article 145 (4) of Customs Law 4458, dated 12-27/10/999. "Confiscation decisions on land, sea and air transport vehicles continue to be carried out in the process of confiscation and publicisation of property, which is carried out in order to harm the registration of these vehicles." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0092par0086	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0091par0087	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0093par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0091par0089	Haluk Pekşen wants to talk about the motion, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Pekşen.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0094par0092	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we're going to talk about a clause that we're going to talk about, which is, really, there's no way that no one under the roof of this great House is going to feel guilty about raising their hand to this clause. I'm sure the Minister, who brought this clause here, this amendment, will also have a guilty conscience because I know the Minister is a conscientious man. Last week, on the way back from Tripoli to Ankara, there were ministers who boarded a private plane, but as a minister on the state's scheduled plane, I applauded him from the heart and heart. Now, respected lawmakers, take a look at the 12th and 14th article. Do you know what was edited in these two articles? If you've brought a super luxury car from abroad, if you've smuggled it in, don't bother. Don't bother if the VAT and VAT didn't get one of these vehicles. These yachts, the floors. Is the government supposed to get these, like, WTVs and VATs and stuff? We need to, but we're taking away the VAT, the WTV, all the taxes and so on. Why? The reason is, look, now, this is my compatriot, the Farozite of Tripoli. My basic brother, the boatman, is a fisherman; he pays my dues between 8 per cent of what he earns, what he catch, what he catches, what he earns, what he pays for his boat, what he pays for, what he pays for his boat, what he pays tuition, taxes for the Department of Agriculture, et cetera. This fisherman, poor, poor person, pays serious taxes. The population of Tripoli is 750, and 456,000 of the population are among the poor. An honest, honorable, honorable citizen of Turkey, with electricity money, water money, gas money, every penny of his taxes. Then... Next thing you know, there's this guy. Now, with the law, we're nullifying all the taxes on this boat. Look, it's worth $50 million. In the Aegean, in the basement, in the Marmaris, in the marinas, they are full of them. If you bring them in, you don't have to pay any taxes, you don't have to pay any taxes, and even if you drink whiskey on the back of this boat, you'll erase the debt of the British whiskey companies for $500 million. You know, the people who sit behind this, without paying any taxes, are also getting written on the back by Delaware. Behind all of this, it is written by Delaware. So, where do these Delaware people get their money? They get the tax from our poor people, and the cheaters live a baron, a luxury life, and you're going to say, "Yes." But the story doesn't go on like this, and here's the part of the story that goes on: you see where the children of poor families choose their way of life? The children of poor families put their lives on the line for this land, so that they can earn 3 or 5 cents, they go home and die in the name of their country. Their taxes and the children of poor families who are martyrs. I'm sure you have as much conscience as I do. And what are the children of these tax barons, these great corrupt barons, busy with? Well, they're busy with these superships. That's the summation of AKP power. The land where poor families lead children's lives is a field of death. This is the future which you have promised, by the laws you have passed today, to the people you have favoured by the laws you have passed. I'm sure it makes your conscience hurt, but the first story doesn't stay here. You're changing the Constitution, you want to change the 98th article of the Constitution, there's only one sentence, one word, you're removing the authority to supervise. You are removing the control authority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Why are you lifting it? Now, when this great House found out that it had opposed these great corruptions, these great injustices, and that it had not allowed it, you, the people, should not know about them, should not be asked about their account. Unfortunately, you were willing to change the Constitution. Honored MPs, once again, there's only one story I'd like to show you. Is this Parliament going to surrender to these barons, assigning the right that these poor people deserve, the honorable life that they deserve, and will this Parliament stand behind the blood of these poor people who gave their lives for this land, until the last drop of their blood, or will this Parliament say that this corrupt, this robbery order is just a little bit more and more? I think you'll all feel guilty about raising a hand on this clause. I don't think you've ever been in such a difficult situation in your life. You're about to raise your hand, but we all know what you're thinking when you leave the hall, when you're out in the hallway. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0095par0102	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446 pension box Act, which is currently in session, shall be changed to "put on trial" in Article 12 of the Bill of the Law, under which there is a amendment to certain Laws and Laws. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0096par0109	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0095par0110	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0097par0111	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0095par0112	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0098par0115	Mr. President, I have made a promise to you regarding the amendment motion we made as the National Movement Party in Article 12 of the Law Bill 446, which is being discussed. I salute your high council. Today is the 95th anniversary of Adana's deliverance from enemy occupation. On March 15, 1923, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who visited this beautiful city, which had a very separate and special place in the Turkish struggle movement, said: "I, too, was inspired by the first attempt to feel this guardian in this country, in this beautiful Adana. We understand that Adana, who led the national struggle movement, inspired Ataturk. In fact, Adana suffered a great deal in those years, when he managed to drive the invaders out of our city by providing civil organization, despite the lack of state resources, military resources. In the face of any inhumane treatment and attack by the enemy, the Adanas stood up with a national spirit and saved their home from the occupation by inflicting a heavy defeat on the enemy. Today is a holiday for the Adanans. And I hereby celebrate the salvation of all my people of Adana. I remember with mercy and gratitude our saintly martyrs who died in the national struggle, especially the great leader, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear MPs, Adana, with about 2.5 million populations, is a very important city, which is a hub and bridge for the transportation of our southern provinces with agricultural potential. It is a city that has led our industry and has brought out countless people of culture and art from its heart, but in recent years, Adana has faced major challenges, whose economy has suffered major injuries for years of unfair incentives, and has set historical records for unemployment. About 40 per cent of the proceeds of Adana Metropolitan Municipality are cut due to the debt from the subway. However, the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, promised that the debt would be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. The Adanans have been waiting for the government to pay off their subway debt since 2011. Just as the government has claimed responsibility for the construction and debt of Ankara subways, Istanbul, Antalya must also take over the debt of the Adana subway. The Adanans expect a fair approach from the government. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're making some changes to the Customs Law, Article 12 of the bill we discussed. Of course, there is a need to address customs problems as we adjust the Customs Law. The Customs Ministry's vision is expressed on its website as making our country one of the number-one trading centres in which customs services and trade are made the easiest and safest. The first thing that needs to be done is to make sure that our country adapts to the changing conditions of the world's trade. In addition, the administrative, legal, physical, technical and financial capacity of institutions, particularly the Ministry of Customs and Trade, must be increased to adapt to change and development in the world. For a good and easy trade, customs services must be conducted quickly and effectively. For this, it is important to increase human resources and technical capacity, to improve it. Developments are certainly happening, but problems with technical and implementation, such as lack of personnel, lack of information, abuses, irregularities, lack of use of information technology, need to be resolved. As the National Party of Action to solve our country's problems, I express once again that we will always stand behind the right and support the wrong, and we will face the wrong, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0099par0123	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0100par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's clear that the explosion in İzmir was a terrorist attack. In this attack, we have been informed that one or several of the terrorists were killed, and other than that, we have citizens who lost their lives, and there are wounded. We ask for God's mercy, our condolences to our family, to our wounded, and to a fellow officer who lost his life, and to a court worker who, as we know it so far, has died. We have made it very clear as the Republican People's Party that we condemn all terrorist organizations that have committed these terrorist attacks, whether it be PKK or ISIS or DHKP-C, to disrupt the peace of Turkey, to separate us from each other.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0101par0132	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Sky, complete.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0100par0133	We also condemn this act of terror, which bloodied our beautiful lzmir. It is clear that we have passed through a period of time in which all political institutions and all those living in Turkey must stick together in the face of these events aimed at disrupting our unity, our unity. I curse those who attack. I wish God's mercy again for those who have lost their lives. And I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0102par0137	Thank you, Mr. Sky. As far as I can see from the news on the Internet that I've given you in İzmir, the terrorist incident that caused the death of one of our security officers and one of the court workers has no doubt caused us all to grieve. After that violent attack that killed 39 people in the early hours of New Year's Eve, this terrorist incident in İzmir has caused us all a great deal of grief. Of course, Mr. Secretary or ministers, the government will make a statement, but as the Supreme Court, we, too, condemn and condemn this terror in İzmir, and pray for God's mercy to our fallen security officer and to our fellow justice officer, who has lost his life.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0103par0143	Mr. President, if you could just make a promise...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0104par0144	Mr. President, I wanted a promise.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0102par0145	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0103par0148	Mr. President, thank you. I condemn the terrorist attack on Izmir. One of our security guards, one of our court officials has lost their lives, and I ask God's mercy. The operation of two terrorist security officers responsible for the attack has been neutralized, and 10 others have been injured. They appear to have planned a massacre in Izmir. As a result of careful and careful work by security guards, a limited action has been carried out. We hope and wish that security officers, intelligence agencies, will neutralize such initiatives in a way that will then be far more effective against terrorist environments, without causing any injury or loss of life. I'm sorry for our nation's loss.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0105par0152	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0106par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it is clear that this attack on the courthouse in Izmir is aimed at social life, no matter who it came from. With action from here, I strongly condemn this attack, condemning my party. I ask God's mercy for the dead security guard and the court officer. Our hope, our hope, is that the death toll doesn't increase. I hereby condemn again those who carried out this attack with the hope and conviction that similar attacks and sufferings will not take place in our country.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0105par0157	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0107par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, condemn the traitorous attack on Izmir. In the early hours of 2017 in İstanbul, police officer Burak Yıldız and 39 of our people lost their lives in the treacherous attack on Reina. We wanted to start 2017 with hope, but unfortunately we started with martyrs. He expects the government to take the necessary measures to remove terror from Turkey's agenda in 2017, to re-create a Turkey that our people can travel freely across the entire country in 81 provinces, asking for God's mercy to all of our citizens who have lost their lives.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0105par0162	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0108par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn this terrorist incident in Izmir. We've always said that we'll face terror from wherever it comes from, wherever it comes from, but why isn't there an explosion on social media a few days ago? Do they live comfortably in İzmir? The İzmir Bar has filed a criminal complaint against the person who wrote, "Do they live comfortably in İzmir?" Has this person been processed? Why is the new Turkey, where secularists have been arrested, not being processed as to the target of an entire city? We'd like to get an opinion from the Minister on that, as to the outcome. I also ask God's mercy for those who have died, and ask for healing for the wounded. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0109par0169	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0110par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Terror is an event we must all oppose, no matter who it comes from. Today we also faced a traitorous attack on our lzmir. We've learned that one security guard and one courthouse employee lost our friend's life and two terrorists have been neutralized. We've been tracking 10 wounded who are being treated at the hospital very closely. These are the results, as long as we don't discuss and eliminate the main causes of terrorism, we will unfortunately face such attacks all over our country. We need to eliminate the causes of terror. For those who have lost their lives, I thank you, Mr. President, for the mercy of God, the immediate healing of the wounded, and my condolences to their families from here in Parliament.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0111par0174	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0112par0177	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I think we're going through the darkest days in the history of the Republic. Since we began our mission in this Parliament, over 20 dignitaries have blown themselves up. The day goes by so we don't get any news. The solution is to increase democracy in Turkey, to increase political reconciliation. This Parliament must solve together, allowing Turkey to emerge from its dark environment. Izmir is the city of peace and brotherhood. As in every city, we were deeply grieved by the coming of this work. I pray to the wounded for immediate healing, for the dead for God's mercy. I hope, for a long time, that God will never show such pain again, that there will be no such pain in our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0113par0180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0114par0183	I say to the Izmirites, to the employees of the Izmir Courthouse and to the Turkish nation. Once again, I'd like to rephrase the fact that there must be a much greater commitment to terrorism, with an over-party understanding. And my condolences for the lives we've lost.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0113par0184	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0115par0187	Mr. President, dear congressman friends, we'd like to share with our dear citizens who are watching television right now that Izmir is the city of peace, of brotherhood, of peace, of living together, it's always been this way. The information is very complicated at the moment, but we wish that we have no citizens who have lost their lives, that we seek immediate healing for the wounded. Mr. President, I don't want to make it very clear at the moment how I'm going to emphasize it, but in the recent past, why is there no explosion in İzmir? Unfortunately, there were shares on social media. Now you have to ask them if you were satisfied with this explosion. I would like to once again emphasize to government members, ruling lawmakers, especially the language of peace against terrorism, the language of peace must be brought forward. I already believe our whole nation will be one body against terror. We'll drown the terror in the blood it sheds. This terror...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0113par0190	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0116par0193	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, we condemn the terror of Izmir as a government, and we strongly condemn it. As a result of the terrorist incident, I offer my condolences to our citizens who have passed away, God rest their souls, and may their place be in heaven. We have wounded, and I pray to God for a speedy recovery. Terror is a crime against humanity, no matter where it comes from, no matter who it's done by. The common statements from all of our party groups also show that the will that we've already established together, as a state, as Parliament, as state institutions, as security agencies and as a nation, we will fight terrorism to the end, there's no way we can ever take a step back from terrorism in any way. It doesn't matter where the terrorist incident happened, it happened in Istanbul, it happened in Kayseri, it happened in İzmir, it happened today; tomorrow, these scoundrels will want to attack another city, another place, another institution. We, all of us, have to act in a common statement, in unity, against these vile attempts. As a government, we are on alert as security forces. We all know that these terrorist organizations, terrorist organizations that feed on very different channels, are using all their resources to disrupt peace and quiet in our country, but the unity and unity we're going to show against it, hopefully, will help overcome this issue. We all have one thing in common again, and I'll say this: social media is never a place to act irresponsiblely, so we shouldn't allow it. In social media, no matter who, no matter what, no matter what they do for a reason, they're going against our unity, our unity, our brotherhood...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0117par0199	Complete, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0116par0200	So, against all the statements made by social media -- Mr. Prime Minister has made it very clear -- no matter what anyone makes a statement, there will be a full fight against our unity, against our unity, against these vile statements against the law. Again, I ask God's mercy to our dead citizens, to our security guards, to our court employee. Hopefully, we'll get through this together.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0117par0202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Big Brother...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0118par0205	Mr. President, thank you very much. Like my friends, I pray for God's mercy to our fallen security forces and to the court staff who died in the foul attack in İzmir, and to the wounded I pray for immediate healing. In the last month, if we take note, an action has been carried out against our police in Istanbul; PKK terrorist organization has done it; there has been an attack on Reina (Christmas night); there has been an attack on the Russian ambassador; there has been an attack on Ankara; there has been an attack on İzmir. I don't know what organization has done this until now, but it doesn't matter, it's one of these organizations. It reveals the truth in front of us...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0119par0209	Thank you, Mr. Big Brother. The final motion on Article 12...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0120par0211	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I couldn't turn the light on. Can you promise me that, please?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0119par0212	Of course, but you don't have access to the system, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0120par0213	I'm in, sir, but of course...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0119par0214	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0120par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, I was outside in a study to take the latest situation and address you. In a city of brotherhood, a symbol of tolerance, bloody terror has finally shown itself. Remember, when these terrorist incidents took place in other cities, one of them was on the Internet; why is there no terror in this İzmir? I'm telling them, you're on the verge of a henna. Finally, this happened in Izmir, and in a symbolic city. But, Mr. Governor's statement is, let me read it... the last time I spoke to the governor, the official statement...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0121par0220	Thank you, Mr. Shield. I'm reading the final motion on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration given on Article 12 of Law Bill 446 shall be changed in the form of the reference given in the form of.... about... about. Kadir Yıldırım (Siirt) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0122par0229	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0121par0230	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0123par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0121par0232	It's Kadir Yıldırım who wants to talk to you about the motion, the Siirt MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0124par0235	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, after this sad incident, you can't talk your way out of it. Our group vice president has already made the necessary statement on behalf of our party, and we all agree with what he says. You know, when you're dating a real downer, you just don't know what to say. The 12th article I have requested is about air, sea, and land transportation. At this point, in these three or four minutes, I'm going to try to present one or two issues that I consider a problem. One of these has been a long time since we've been able to fly a Siirt flight. Turkish Airlines has halted its flight to Siirt. When we want to go to Diyarbakir, both our citizens and as their representatives, we have to go to Diyarbakir, where we have to go to Siirt, or we go to Batman, where we face the situation of taking action. Whoever's dealing with this, please, they'll get rid of it, because it's the same demand that I've been sent to me by our people in the Ziirt, our Ziirt nobles. I don't know who it is after the First Minister of Transport, but please, they'd better focus on this problem. Second: When I was at the University of Artuklu in Mardin, then the AK PARTI had a request from me. And that demand was that Kurdish can be read as well as the announcement text in the aircraft that organises flights to the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions is read in English. So at the time, I took the catalog where the announcement text was passed, and I did it myself, so I put the Kurdish translations along with their English and Turkish, and I delivered them, but unfortunately, I think the process was reversed, so it wasn't taken seriously even though I'm bringing it up a few more times now. But there is such a demand. If it's about air transport, then if this is taken into account, a demand has been met, so that the rights to language will not be conjunctural, it will be removed from the conjunctural state. Third: Of course, again in the 12th article context; of course, taxes are at stake here, but if you look carefully at it, it gives an impression that these taxes will make the poor poor poorer and the rich richer. And at that point, if there's a chance to reconsider, it'd be good. I'd like to present information to the General Assembly on these three issues, and I hereby salute the General Assembly, and ask that these Turkish Airlines stop their flight. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0125par0244	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 446 rows of the Law shall be changed in the form of............................................................................................................. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Garo Paylan Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Chest 446 rankings and the Law on Some Laws and Laws, we propose and recommend that the article on the 13th Amendment be replaced by ▪ 15%. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Deniz Depboylu Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzaker Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Law Bill 13 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 13 of the Law shall be changed by the Law and by the Law of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Cakirözer Musa Pine Tulip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0126par0269	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0125par0270	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0127par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0125par0272	It's Ancient Durmaz who wants to talk about the motion, the Slap Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0128par0275	Mr. President, honorable members of the High Assembly, I will begin by cursing the terrorist organization and those who supported him. Dear members of the High Assembly, we've often warned the government that: "You can't take this country with law." We said: "You can't take this country with the law." If you really have a lot of law proposals for the good of the country, let's always try to get them out with a compromise, but unfortunately, we have serious concerns about who has a special arrangement in Article 446, which is not in the public interest of the People's Party group. In that sense, I believe the High Council will make the right decision by considering it. Again, a famous thinker of what you have brought to our country as a result of your 14 years of power explains that the solution to the power that created the problem is as bad as that problem. We invite you to make a constitution with common understanding, to make laws and to heed warnings. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to remove you from this environment for a moment. This week is the launch week of the Tokat. See what he says: "You have to go to Tokat, because the climate and people of the Tokat. " In the words of Çelebi Çelebi, the people are tasteful, they are a friend of the strange; a land of people who do not hold grudges, who do not know deceit, who are mild-mannered people. • In the words of Haci Bektas Veli, the house of scholars, the house of virtues and poets. (The village of Tokcu Hill, the hero of Horasan, has to go to see Hasan Gazi, the castle of Topcham, the tomato of Tokat, the tomato of Kazova, the cherry of Kemalpaşa, and the peach, the castle of Toklat, the castle of the city of Toklat, to see its hero of the city. The Arasta Coffee, which Veysel the lover stole and spoke of, and the Coffee of the Islander of Emzurum, which Emrah the Erzuramite was frequented, and the Çamiçi Yaylası, the Roman Arsenali, the historic Talazan Bridge, the Niksar Castle, the first Turkish university in Anatolia, the Yuribasan Medesesi, the Cahit Künebi, the Melik Gazi, the Melik Gazi, the Hüseyin Gazi, the Nutsu, the Toki bread, the Tokit, the first Turkish university in Anatolia. It is necessary to visit the headquarters of the Ski Centre, Kelkit Valley and its pearl Erbaa, Gurektepe, the Bullite Yaylası, the four hundred-year-old wooden gunman Omar Pasha Camisi, the Horasan people, Keçeci Baba, who is concerned with the variety of endemic plants in the world, and to taste the leaf wrap. I have come, I have seen the palace of Zile, which Caesar called Veni, vidi, vici. I have seen it, and I have seen the land of Girayhan, which came from Crimean, and I have seen it, and I have seen it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it, and I have eaten it. Sebastapolis Ancient City with its seven thousand-year history, its healing spas, its wheat barn, its Artova, its Greenyurt, its Reshadiye Cascades, its 5,000-year-old fortress, Turhal, its parachutical parachute, its yogurt in Mercimek Hill, its ancient city of Sebastapolis, its healing spas, its wheat barn, its Artova, its Greenyurt, its healing Reshadijas, its Sebastapolis Lake and Kanyonu. We must see Mamu Beli, and Almus Dam, and its beauty, and its smokey plateau, and Mount Tekeleh, and the Sultan of Hubyar, of the men of Horasan. As Dervis Ali said, "My breath is the truth. I have no doubt about those who call themselves the truth. There is no branch that you call Hell/ Everyone will take their fire from here." Again, I say that I took copper from the hands of Coach Köroğlu in Çamlıbel, as he said, "Don't hurt the poor, the poor, you must see the land of the world champions, the Tokat. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0129par0286	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. We also learned that Count Dracula was imprisoned in Tokat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Chest 446 rankings and the Law on Some Laws and Laws, we propose and recommend that the article on the 13th Amendment be replaced by ▪ 15%. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0130par0294	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0129par0295	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0131par0296	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0129par0297	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 13 of the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of the Republic of Turkey. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the General Assembly. I'm one of the lawmakers who spoke last year on the last day. Once again, when I stand on the stand, I would like to rephrase my deep regret about the explosion that occurred in Istanbul on New Year's Eve and that I am truly devastated by the explosion that occurred in Istanbul. I don't want to say "shit." I think you're all in the same situation, and the heart of the great Turkish nation is on fire. It's not enough to ask for mercy for those who have lost their lives, it's enough for all of us to continue this struggle together. As a matter of fact, after that explosion, unfortunately, today we were shaken by the Izmir explosion. He has no more province, no more territory of explosions, no more terrorist attacks, no more terrorist incidents that have occurred in the Southeast Anatolian region -- Ankara, Bursa -- and its location, and its territory. Our support for the National Movement Party Group will continue effectively at the point where the fight will continue, which means our fight will continue. By the way, the 23-year-old police officer who served under the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and lost his life, I would also like to cherish our brother, Jade Kancıoğlu; my hand that he had been caught did not escape the disease, and he died. I ask patience for his grieving family, and his place shall be in heaven, and he shall perish in the prime of his life. Now, while Mr. Secretary is here, since this is a matter of great importance... there's an arrangement in the law, you know, about a criminal pardon. The regulation of the law will cover citizens who have failed to repay or delay their debt to banks for various reasons in the past. A total of 12,500,000 employers and shopkeepers are eagerly expected, even to pronounce the number 13,800,000, to be exact. Who's in here? There are employers, there are tradesmen, there are individual credit users. And who's gonna take advantage of that? Those whose record is broken because of the credit card, those whose record has been broken due to consumer credit debt, those who have bad checks, those who have been pro bono, those who have been protested, those who have not been able to pay their credit or who have lost their credit to the bank, all of them are in high hopes in that sense. Now, here are the details that matter, and I want to be brief about these details, and my time is very limited. The most important part of the numbers are those who were legally followed because of the credit card; 2 million 233,188 people. 1 million 729 thousand people who have been legally followed because of consumer, vehicle and housing loans. Those who have been legally followed because of commercial loans are still a very large number. They're all already looking for us, and we're going to leave, and we're going to have a clean record in the banks, and we're going to use the necessary loan. What were the terms of the pardon? Paying off your debt or entering a configuration as of the date the law entered into effect. Yes, he's going to go into the configuration, and this time he's going to say, "My KKB, my risk report, I'm on a clean, clean page." It's going to go to the bank, the bank's reflex, Mr. Secretary, it's not like that. The bank does this: The majority of these lists, since the past credit situation is recorded, says: I look at its present condition, but I have to take precautions as a bank. And psychologically, it will keep them in its subconscious as a factor, and it will keep them as documents. So he says: "You are not cut out for credit. Believe me, 13 million people have hope here, and perhaps you should bring some arrangements to comfort the bank.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0133par0306	Well, we did.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0307	That's not enough. Look, we'll see about that.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0133par0309	We wrote it with the banks.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0310	The banks are willing to do that, we've talked to banks, we've talked to CEOs. You know what the general manager says? Yes, we want to give it to those customers after the pardon of the record comes, and we're looking at the current situation. What's his current status, Mr. Secretary? Look, you know what? He'll see if he has an employer again, an apartment, something to mortgage. Most of them are already screwed up, they won't be able to give us anything.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0133par0312	We made a statement and said that we worked with the Bank of Banks and the banks to shape this stuff...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0313	Yeah... Now, if I could have a little extra time...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0134par0315	Now, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Erdem, sir, we don't have that kind of negotiation, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0316	Okay, I'll go ahead, and I'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary would answer.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0134par0317	And if the Minister demands a word, I'll make a promise to him. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0132par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary says here yesterday that the banks are eager to do so, so let the banks come, we'll give loans. I'm betting from here. Look, let's follow it together, and for the next six months, all the people who benefit from this pardon of records, I'm going to shout every time I'm on the stand here, just as an example, because I don't believe it. In 2008, the arrangement was made with banks again in 2009, with the same result. People's hope is very high at this point, so maybe we need to make different arrangements to relax the banks, to cover their risks, and I'm saying that there should be a special study. For example, in our conversation with the CEO of the Bank X, he said: "I will ask the future person for documents. What is this document? What's his current commercial status? Is he a merchant or not? Does he have a real estate to mortgage or not? Is there anyone who can make bail? Most of these people won't be able to bring it in, and since they can't, they won't be able to use the loan again, and it's not going to work out. Well, then, a record pardon isn't enough, so we need to take different measures. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0135par0324	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 446 rows of the Law shall be changed in the form of............................................................................................................. Garo Paylan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0136par0331	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0135par0332	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0137par0333	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0135par0334	Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0138par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Look, I'm afraid our hometown is on fire, and we're here to discuss a bag of laws that will make the rich feel better. Because the AKP's claim was that if I made the rich feel good, the rich also drip on the poor. He always tried to build an economy from the top to the bottom, and he never thought about the larger parts. Only I will encourage the rich, and I will reduce his tax, and he may drop it on the poor. He has made a claim. Yeah, that worked for a while. The rich became richer, and took more parts of the wealth; but the poor were in debt, and were not rich, and were in debt. Now we're in an economic crisis. The rich and the insecure and the poor have debt, but the poor have debt; the rich may lack wealth, but the poor have debt, and the large masses have debt. Look, we've got 13 million people down in default. It's more than half our population with their families. Our people are desperate. Let's get a proposal that will make you feel better, and maybe the poor will feel better. The proposal doesn't work this time, folks, because we're in a lot of chaos, we're in a political crisis. And because we're having a political crisis, it's the economy. Look, unemployment numbers are 12 percent and counting. Inflation is expected to be 8.5, January and February at 10 percent and above, so double digits. The interest is already in the double house. The capacity to use is dropping, the trust index -- the Industor Trust Index -- is dropping. Dollars set a new record today for $3.63. So this time, this look doesn't work, let me make you feel better. The look doesn't work. What we need to do is to reassure the entire community. However, unfortunately, you are striking power, democracy after coup. The more it hits democracy, the more it ruins the economy. You're looking for a higher mind in every blow. But if he gains wisdom from it, and has a common sense, then there is no need to seek wisdom. If we surrender the will to the palace and mortgage our minds to others, we'll continue to seek the upper mind, I'm afraid. Look, there's going to be a Constitution proposal here at the beginning of next week. It's clearly polarizing society. You know, the polls show that there's a part of society that says yes, and a part that's very sharp, indecisive, and there's a lot of tension in the community. Dear friends, here last year, when the polarization, the camping and the fighting started, I made some serious coup warnings, my friends laughed at me. I've said many times -- there's bound to be a coup d'état, my friends, that this climate is the climate of impact. You want to give the will to one man today, and society is polarized, and this climate is open to any provocation, my friends. We're already living in a cloud of impacts, a coup d'etat, a coup d'etat, and a coup d'etat. It's not necessarily an armed coup; society is camping, polarizing, tensions are involved, provocations are involved, the political institution is disabled, it's a coup, and eventually a savior is sought. Now you see the savior as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and you say, "Let's hand over the will altogether." But that won't save us. A lot of bad actors are on the line right now, folks. If we don't get the political institution involved, if we don't find the common minds of all groups, if we don't get the consultation and the compromise to work, there's gonna be a lot of play on us, folks. We need to get the legal state back on line, run Parliament, improve the quality of our democracy, release journalists who are under arrest, politicians who are under arrest. Look, the quality of our economy will never, ever recover without improving the quality of our democracy. You can tell rich people they're free, I'm not taxing, I'm encouraging, the economy doesn't come alive. From that point of view, friends, let's put the political institution in hand. Or we'll have more people knitting socks on our heads. You'll be looking for a higher mind, but maybe we won't even get a chance to look for that upper mind. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0139par0348	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0140par0350	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0139par0351	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Since there's a difference of opinion on whether or not there's a sufficient number of decisions, I'll be able to determine whether or not there is a difference of opinion on the Presidential Court, by voting with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 14th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law bill to the Amendment to some Laws and Legislatures under Article 446 of the Republic of Turkey. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Kazım Archlan Tulip Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Musa Pine MADDE 14-16/12/1999, Turkish International Ship Recording Act 4490, and the second joke of Article 12 of Article 491 shall be changed as follows, adding the following joke to the same article after this joke. "The purchases, mortgages, registration, loans, rent, ship, timecarter, and all of the navl contracts will not be subject to stamp taxes and fees; the funds will not be subject to bank and insurance taxes and funds due to these transactions. The first and second jokes are also carried out in the phase of the ship and yachts' transfer from the Turkish International Ship's Register to another record, or in the phase of the transfer of the sari shapes. However, the first joke of the 4th Article of this Law (c) is required that the ships registered to the Turkish International Ship's Register be operated for at least six months under the Turkish International Ship's Register, in order to be released from this register and transferred to another record, or to be carried out in Sair Surrets." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Nimeullah Erdoğmuş Mehmet Emin Adıyaman The signatures of the other motion are: İsmail Faruk Aksu Saffet Sandzak Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Baki Lightning of the Sea Depboy Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0141par0385	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0139par0386	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0142par0387	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0139par0388	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who want a word on the motions. The first speaker is Baki Simsek, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0143par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Law bill on the Amendment to the Law and Laws under the Law of the Republic of Turkey, 446 rows. Dear lawmakers, there is no doubt that 2016 was the year of terror and bitch attacks. Terrorists have sometimes carried out suicide bombings with live bombs, martyred hundreds of our soldiers and police along with our civilian citizens. The tongs of global forces pressing the button are PKK, DEAŞ, ISIS, YPG and ▪, and Turkey is the target. Unfortunately, from July 20, 2015 to today, we have lost 1,080 children, including 600 soldiers, 382 police officers and security guards, 63 guards, 35 civil servants. In addition, 663 of our citizens were killed in the bombings. About 2,105 soldiers, 1,564 police officers, 74 rangers and 4,277 citizens have been injured. In 2016 alone, our total number of martyrs was 839. Those who want to refer to the existence of Turkey have also turned the barrel into our nation in 2017. After 2016, the year of treason and prostitution, terror has once again shown its treacherous face in the first minutes of the new year, which we eagerly and hopefully hope for. In the next three hundred and sixty-five days, the news of the massacre from Istanbul in the early years of the new year destroyed all of us. In the attack in Istanbul, one of them is officer Burak Yıldız from Mersin. Burak Yildiz was also an orphan child, lost his father, raised his two children as an orphan, and his brother was a police officer at another fun club 150 yards from him. He was only 22 years old, but he became one of the victims of the bitch attack, lost his life. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs, especially those who lost their lives today in İzmir. Unfortunately, legislature activities are being conducted in an irregular, incomplete, and sloppy manner within Turkey's agenda. As we have expressed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly about the bag of laws that have come before, it must be seen according to the interest of the arrangement, and the bag of laws must be abandoned. This bill, which is being discussed, consists of different issues. It is possible that the amount of technical issues that should be discussed in multiple commissions should be collected in a bag of laws and discussed in our Commission will result in a healthy assessment. The 4th, 14th, 15th, and 36th articles contain provisions concerning shipping and transport sectors... I wish these substances had been discussed before in the Transport Commission. The amendment to Article 14 of the bill is said to be aimed at increasing the number of Turkish Flagship ships and the total volume of the ship's merchant fleet. However, incentives for shipping are already made in both this bill and the existing laws. The bag of funds for the establishment of funds was also demanded by the law and was removed from the bill on appeal. What is the purpose of this resuscitation this time? Today -- about ships -- we're giving all ships cheap diesel, but it's a fact that the illegal fuel doesn't enter Turkey with mules anymore, but with ships and oil pipelines. We're waiting for our Minister to present as the Treasury Department of Finance the necessary fight against the illegal diesel. How will this change in judgment help Turkey's economy and the transport sector? Sadly, it is clear that the advantageous introduction of certain ships to the system would result in both unjust competition and tax loss. As a result, we take a positive view of the provisions of this bill for social support and social investment, but I also want to point out that many of the articles are inappropriate, and I salute your grand delegation with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0144par0401	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmiş will talk about the other proposal in the same manner. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0145par0405	Mr. President, dear fellow Regents, I salute you all. That's one of the more challenging substances in the plan budget. There was no mutually convincing outcome in the discussion, because it wasn't very convincing for someone like me who was a stranger to the economy. It's about the flag from a distance, so even though it seemed to be an advantage, it wasn't really seen as a material that was useful, which was the basis of the job at all. Mr. Secretary, I believe, in his answer there, witnessed it himself. They used to give us trade examples. Subtle, like this, those who liked the con trade would hang a five-packer in their shops, and that way, they'd do their business on him. I hope there's no such abuse of the flag here. Dear friends, every word is actually distilled, glided from tradition, from history, from the past, and from the past, into the society's life, and there it is. For example, there's a saying that we often use, and we all agree, but we suffer from the fact that we can't do what we need to do, that we have the right to an unfinished orphan. The word is perfect, the word is perfect, but if the consciences don't abide by it, if they're not stoned, I think they're going to judge us. I don't know who has this saying, but in the history of Islam, Abu Zer al-Gifari is the owner. In Damascus, Abu Zer, as you know, when he passed through the Caliphate, the House of Emevi needed an ideology for his reign, because earlier times were a time of peace. Arguing whether the Medinan era was a state or not; there are those who claim it was a state period. My humble opinion in the time of the Prophet (SAV) was that there was never, ever, ever, a state order, a state order, a state form; it was completely, nubüvüveti, risaletti. Later, we can discuss it during the caliphic era, but when he lost that power during his reign, he needed the rule of Emevi, the palace, the ruling ideology, and this ideology is called a ideologic ideology. We can see how this faction of algebra is politically based on the House of Emevi, if we can then look at its historical roots. Here, Abu Zer defied that algebra ideology, he said to the sultan: "You declare yourself a sultan and you impose your sultanship on society as a destiny; persecution cannot be fate, it cannot be accepted. This is not acceptable. Because it is about the sultan who imposes himself in this way, and it is about the budget that he appoints himself as its rightful owner and its user, and therefore it is God's property." This was the ideology of that day in the period of bin Abu Sufian, which was God's property, and I will spend as I please. Abu Zer: No, this is not the property of God; this is the property of the people; this is the property of the orphan -- the property of the people today -- you can never, personally, save yourself from it. As a result, Abu Zer Rebeze was exiled to Abu Zer Rebeze. He died in exile. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0146par0411	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law bill to the Amendment to some Laws and Legislatures under Article 446 of the Republic of Turkey. With all due respect. Kazim lion and his friends MADDE 14-16/12/1999, Turkish International Ship Recording Act 4490, and the second joke of Article 12 of Article 491 shall be changed as follows, adding the following joke to the same article after this joke. "The purchases, mortgages, registration, loans, rent, ship, timecarter, and all of the navl contracts will not be subject to stamp taxes and fees; the funds will not be subject to bank and insurance taxes and funds due to these transactions. The first and second jokes are also carried out in the phase of the ship and yachts' transfer from the Turkish International Ship's Register to another record, or in the phase of the transfer of the sari shapes. However, the first joke of the 4th Article of this Law (c) is required that the ships registered to the Turkish International Ship's Register be operated for at least six months under the Turkish International Ship's Register, in order to be released from this register and transferred to another record, or to be carried out in Sair Surrets." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0147par0422	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0146par0423	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0148par0424	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0146par0425	It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0149par0428	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I curse today's terror in Izmir, and I condemn it with violence and hatred. I also ask God's mercy on our fellow martyrs and on our citizens, and for those who are injured, and for immediate healing. My dear friends, today I have taken a pledge on the Law of the Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey 446 and on the 14th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. I'll tell you what I think of the motion we made on this clause. My dear friends, we constantly criticize, we say so, but there is a change, unfortunately, from this House... in this ruling parliament, the effort is being made to be carried out in the same way, to be carried out in the same way. But they insist on bringing it, even though they know that each bill in the form of a bag will do harm both in terms of law technique and in terms of better functioning of the legal state. And here we are discussing a bill of a bag of laws brought in to make 23 amendments to the law. Article 14 of this bill was replaced by the second joke of Article 12 of the Turkish International Ship's Recording Act 4490 and added an additional joke. With the joke being changed, all contracts of the Turkish International Ships Register will not be subject to stamp taxes and mortars, and will be exempted from bank and insurance treatments in this area. Now, according to the first joke (c) of the 4th article of this law, the ship registered to the Turkish International Ship's Register is required to be operated under the Turkish International Ship's Register for at least six months in the course of its return to another record, and in the course of its return to Sair surreas. Now, with the change being made, my dear friends, for some reason, the 10,000 dollars that were purchased for registration from people with ships, people with ships, and citizens with ships, are being given up. Again, these people, who have yachts, who have assets, are being given up $5,000 for registration. At a time when the government needed that kind of money, it's really hard to understand, at some point, to give up. So you give these ships, these yachts, you know, the diesel, you give it to them tax-free, but we've been telling you for years, you're still getting taxes on the mazota that our farmer's gonna put on his tractor. Besides, you keep getting motor vehicle taxes from the tractor. Again, because of the tractor's purchase, you continue to receive the money the farmer will pay. When it comes to our farmer, the state is really poor, it's impossible, it's said to be given within the realms. But when it comes to the wealthy, it's really a favor, and there's a different practice going on here. We certainly don't approve of these things, my dear friends, because if we want to improve our country, we need to develop our farmer, our producer; what's produced there, what's sold and what's marketed, and what our business is selling, the factories need to produce. I'm just saying it'll open the way for growth, development, development. If we don't do that, we'll have trouble finding farmers in the future. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0150par0437	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 15th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Berdan Özturk Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan The signatures of the other motion are: Bihlun Tamayligil Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakırözer Musa Pine Tulip Karbük Kemal Zeybek The signatures of the other motion are: İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Saffet Sandzaklı Kamil Aydın Izzet Ulvi Router of the Sea Depboy Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0151par0461	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0150par0462	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0152par0463	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0150par0464	I'll take turns making a promise to lawmakers who want to talk about proposals. The first speaker is Izzet Ulvi Ölter, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0153par0468	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 446th amendment to the Law of the Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey and on the motion on behalf of our party in Article 15 of the Dair Law Bill. I salute you all. I pray for God's mercy to our brothers, our martyrs, who lost their lives in the treacherous terrorist attack in Izmir. Once again, we curse and condemn terror in a very strong, decisive way. I pray to God that our nation will never be subjected to such attacks again. Dear lawmakers, the rate of inflation last December was announced by TİK. Inflation had increased above expectations by about 1.64 per cent. Thus, the inflation of 2016 was 8.53 per cent. With an estimate of 7.5 per cent inflation at the beginning of 2016, the Central Bank remains stable in failure to meet its inflation forecast. Unfortunately, we all know that inflation in our citizens' kitchen is far above the inflation of the basket. The kitchens are showered with raises. As a result of the inflation figures explained by TÜİK (TİK), the increase in pensions in the first six months of 2017 has also been determined. According to this, SEC and BUG-KUR pensioners will receive a 4.73 per cent increase this month. The pensioners will receive a 3% increase in the collective contract -- since there is no difference in inflation. According to these calculations, the lowest pensioner's pension will be $1,402.53, which is $1,339.18 from the SECs who retired before 2000. At the same time, the base monthlys of pensioners who retired after 2000 will be increased to $836, including additional payments. On the other hand, the lowest BUG-KUR tradesman's pension is still around $1.218. The lowest BUG-KUR agricultural pension will also rise to the level of $950 with an inflation increase. The lowest pensioner's pension will increase from $1,610 to $1,658 per cent from public talks. In our country today, the lowest pension is between $234 and $464, if you count it in dollars. I want to draw your attention to the pensions of some countries around the world: $992 in Austria, $1.175 in Belgium, $923 in Denmark, $737 in Finland, $731 in France, $1.069 in Ireland, $657 in Japan, $1.276 in the Netherlands, $1.717 in Norway, $1.996 in Luxembourg, and $722 to 915 in Germany. Even in Greece, which we don't like, which is on the verge of bankruptcy, although it has been reduced, the pension average is now around $565. Our country continues its race for pensions with Poland, Portugal and Brazil. In our country today, we are over 11.5 million retired people. It is truly sad and worrying for all of us that our people often struggle for life under the border of hunger and poverty, and it is incumbent upon us to do so. The increase in the first six months of 2017 will not be enough to save, hold, stand up, hope, those who are increasingly oppressed in the struggle for life. On this occasion -- because the process is waning -- I end my promises, salute you all, and urge the government to pay more attention to our pensioners. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0154par0477	Thank you, Mr. Orender. Kemal Zeybek, MP of Samsun, is the second speaker of the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0155par0481	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you. Today I pray to God for mercy and healing for the wounded, for our citizens who lost their lives in the terrorist attack in Izmir (Izmir) and in the previous terrorist attacks. I condemn the state administrators of the countries that support terrorism with hatred, and I condemn America and other countries in the Middle East as well as the BOP Project in the first place. I think those who claim to be co-chairs will learn from the past and look at the future in a different way in the interests of our country. Of course, today we are discussing the addition of the 3rd amendment to Law 4490 in the bag bill. Five months ago, four and a half months later, there was a temporary number two added. With this clause, taxes, tuitions, exceptions, VAT, OTV, were made to be destroyed. Today, we see that the same substances are replaced by a different protective, other profiteering law. We'd like to think about what the influence of government executives in changing this law is for their children to be remembered by yachts and ships. Does it have that effect with this substance being altered? Is it possible for our citizens in the Black Sea, in the Mediterranean, in the Marmara, in the Aegean, and in our country's marine regions to take advantage of it, to take advantage of it, to benefit, to benefit, to benefit from it? No. So, if it's not for the benefit of our people, our people who produce it, what is it to protect the interests of yacht owners, shipowners, luxury-living people? I'd like to present this to the High Council. While our dear friends, of course, were doing so, fifteen or twenty days earlier, under the KOSGEB project in our country, there was an opening of 50,000 TL loan for the benefit of 15,000 tradesmen, and it was as if the money that was given to our tradesman for free was offered to him by the government. We say that's not true. In Samsun, I also have 46,871 registered tradesmen. Five thousand and forty-five hundred twenty-five hundred and twenty-five of these merchants applied for this loan. Unfortunately, only 224 people were told to receive such a loan, such a study was done. I've calculated, in my science, a loan that corresponds to five-in-a-thousand tradesmen. I wonder if we have the right to play with the values of the people, the hopes of the people. Mr. Secretary is here, and I'm sorry, but... Now, isn't it better to be told that these loans are more transparent, more narrated, not just where they're making a donation -- a return of a loan -- that is, a loan provided with the support of the tradesmen's bail co-ops? Since this loan will be given to 15,000 people in total, it is said to be $750 million, but is it right to donate 750 million to a yacht, to give up taxes? I salute and honor the High Council.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0156par0489	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. Regarding the other proposal of the same nature, Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0157par0493	Mr. President, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's Arife for me, tomorrow's my holiday. Tomorrow is the Christmas of the Eastern Orthodox Christian people, the 6th and 7th of January. So we celebrate the birth and baptism of Jesus Christ. I'll leave you tonight, if you work tomorrow, but look, for example, the Ottoman Parliament-i Mebusani, you know, they didn't work on January 6th and 7th, because we knew each other's holiday. Of every five people who lived in Anatolian geography, one of them was Eastern Orthodox. In the same way, they knew about December 24th, we knew about each other's holidays, and we respected each other's holidays. But guys, look, look at the hate speech that's been going on lately. Look at all this hate talk about Christmas and Christmas. Look at the signs, how Santas get punched. Look at the way the inflatable Santa babies are stabbed. Look at how the Santas are chased and gunned to their heads. So a climate of hate, a climate of hate speech was created, and on New Year's Eve, unfortunately, a place of entertainment was raided. Look, guys, hate crimes are made up of hate words. You create a climate, you make something negative, and unfortunately there are hate crimes. It's easier to commit hate crimes if the government sticks their noses in it. Look, the Head of Religious Affairs has set up a New Year's War, says it's New Year's Eve that doesn't match our values. The National Ministry of Education has sent a general order to all schools about Christmas and New Year's, saying, "Look, it's a shame that Christmas and New Year's events don't happen because it doesn't suit our cultural values. " But isn't Jesus the prophet of all of us, friends, Muslims, don't you agree? Why wouldn't her birthday be appropriate to your cultural values? And it's Christmas, but Christmas is the beginning of a new year, so don't we wish each other well when we start a new year? Yeah, the beginning of our calendar, the beginning of the calendar we use, and it has nothing to do with the birth of Jesus Christ, the beginning of a new calendar year on the night of December 31st. Why are we making this a hate-and-hate climate? Look, there are Christian friends in public schools, private schools, students. Why should Muslim friends not celebrate the Christmas of Christian friends and the New Year of each other? Isn't that our cultural value? And then, friends, Santa, if you love God, where is he from? Santa Claus, where is St. Nikolas from? Is there an Antalya deputy here? If he was in another country, believe me, he'd celebrate it by attracting millions of tourists, adding value to the country. Aziz Nikolas is from Turkey, and he celebrates it as Antalian, Demreli. It's worth something here, why wouldn't it fit our cultural values, St. Nikolas? And why shouldn't a charitable saint be appropriate to our cultural values, a saint who makes children happy, gives gifts? Friends, I will say with my oppressor that hate speech leads to hate crimes. Let's celebrate each other's holidays. On the contrary, if we don't know each other's holidays, each other's values, we become polarized, camping, and we have no respect for each other or ourselves. Dear friends, let us all celebrate the birthday of Jesus Christ. I'll celebrate it from here in my own way. On our festivals, we will address one another tomorrow as follows: Happy birthday to Jesus Christ. You can sing it in Turkish. So we'll celebrate by saying... (x). I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0158par0500	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0159par0501	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0158par0504	I too celebrate the Christmas Day, which our Christian citizens celebrated on January 6th and January 7th - the Festival of Birth in Turkish. Yes, I will submit the three motions of the same nature to your votes.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0160par0509	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0158par0510	Before the vote, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0161par0511	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something for the record.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0158par0512	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0161par0513	Based on the speech the speaker has just expressed, I would like to say that Christmas, before Christmas, and now, tomorrow's ceremony, our President, our Prime Minister, our government, has had a public statement, a statement. I don't think it's right to announce it in such a climate of hate.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0162par0514	What's the Ministry of National Education doing, what's Religion doing?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0161par0515	We are people who respect the birth of every prophet equally. The explanation of our two institutions in question is only a request for a proper celebration of the prophet. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0162par0517	No, not like that, not like that, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0518	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0162par0519	Can I fix it?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0520	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0162par0521	Mr. President, for the record, for the record, I'm going to give you a statement from the Ministry of National Education. He says: "Because it is not appropriate for our cultural values, Christmas and Christmas activities are not being held. " You can see it, I can deliver it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0522	Yes, thank you, Mr. Paylan. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0164par0526	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Republic of Turkey is a republic that sees everyone as a citizen, regardless of the ethnic origin, language, religion of all its citizens who live and depend on it. In this republic, it is a tradition that every citizen of ours will always express their feelings and opinions and celebrate their own special celebrations on their traditional days or on their sacred days. It is a continuation of Turkey's and Ottoman tradition. Thus, we always have to make Turkey a tolerant society, and everyone has to respect each other's beliefs. In that understanding, we think that everyone living in Turkey should be adopted without distinction, and we celebrate the holiday of everyone who is bound by a civic bond. So aside from the hate speech that was intended to be created in Turkey, everyone...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0529	Complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0164par0530	...that the Republic of Turkey feels that it is an equal citizen and a part of the Republic of Turkey... that everyone has to be present at the most difficult of times, through one of the turns. Therefore, I say it is everyone's duty to contribute to the development of this tolerance environment in Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0532	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I have stated that I will submit the three motions of the same nature to your votes. There was a demand for a decision to be made, so I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part covers the 16th to 38th article. On behalf of the groups and individuals of the second chapter, I'm going to make a pledge to the lawmakers who want to speak for themselves. The first speaker for the groups is Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya. No Mr. Karakaya. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP... No more speeches for the groups.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0165par0549	How is there no more talk?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0163par0550	Now, members of lawmakers, I'm saying the names, I'm calling your name, the MP I'm calling needs to come to the stand, and if he doesn't, I don't know, sir. I, now... Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0166par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised the second chapter on Bill 446. I salute you all. Mr. President, the reason we didn't come when our name was read is that normally it wasn't our turn yet, otherwise we'd be here, ready, so we'd have no other excuse.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0167par0556	Mr. Kusoglu, since you're usually sitting in the back, when I say your name, I look in the back, and I see you're not, and I admit that you're not when there's no movement towards the bench. Anyway, go ahead, go ahead, I'll know your discipline.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0166par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, today's terrorist attack in İzmir has upset all of us, and I ask God's mercy to our fallen citizens and to our servants. I also want to point out that terror is no longer the actions of terrorist organizations, but it's become the kind of thing that international intelligence organizations are behind, and they're using terrorist organizations a lot in our country, I'm afraid. We all need to consider this, and all of us need to act on it, think on it, take precautions on it. It's too risky, it's too dangerous, Turkey. I think we all need to think about it, discuss it, talk about it. My dear friends, this bag of legislation is clearly on the agenda at a critical time. This critical situation of economics is also at stake, even more. In this particular period, the public's ability to buy is unfortunately very low, and there are great challenges. Public purchasing power is at stake, as well as the demand of the public, as well as declines in exports. So we can't sell a product that we produce both abroad and abroad, and there's trouble. It is clear that if this continues, there will be much more trouble with the economy. But with that, you see, there's a rise in currency, there's a uncertainty about interest. So as long as there's this uncertainty about all the instruments of the economy, about its data, there's no way we can put this together. I was on the stand here again months ago in the name of a bag of law. As I talked, I specifically said that the measures taken regarding the current state of the economy would not be enough, that these measures, the measures in that bag of law, were not enough, that there were incentives in them. Mr. Finance Minister said they'd take sufficient precautions, but months later, we see today that there's still a bag of laws, but it's still not enough. Unfortunately, the measures aren't enough, the troubles continue the same. Now, this second chapter covers 23 articles from 16th to 38th. These include what the government considers to be very important. For example, there are some afflicted substances, and there is a clause in the Turkish Union of Banks Risk Center that may not be taken into account by credit agencies or financial institutions in the event of full repayment or restructuring of accounts related to debts such as checks, bonds, credit cards. It's like a recommendation or something. Now, the tradesman, especially the COBI, had great expectations. Almost everyone in Turkey had been recorded at the Bank Association Risk Center because of their debt, such as the check, the bond, the credit card, and everyone was waiting for forgiveness. Yes, there will be an amnesty. It has been said by the government that such a statement has been made, but the item -- as I have just read it -- says: "Is there such a recommendation that can be taken into account by banks, loan companies and financial institutions? The clause of the law is taken. It says, "It is done." It says, "It states a obligation." Here we are making a law of recommendation... that can be obtained. That kind of law is out of the question, dear friends, that kind of law is out of the question, that kind of law is out of the question. This is of no use to the tradesman, the COBI. Only the Prime Minister or the economists are interested in the interests of the economy. We've pardoned the penalties of the Esnaf, we've forgiven their records of being held in the Bank Association. They say that, but that's not how it works in practice. No private bank considers that, especially not any private bank, does the transaction on that. Again, my dear friends, there's a problem with this bag of laws that the Minister of Finance didn't even present first. 38 counts, which is an important one, predicting a change in about 20 laws. Normally, the Minister of Finance would go out and say, "We've brought a bag of laws, we're behind it, we're bringing these, we're doing a good job." The Minister of Finance wouldn't give a speech. Not even a friend of ours from the ruling party gave a speech. Then, on our warning, the group came up with the Minister of Finance on the notice of our deputy president, who had to re-submit. I mean, it's not a bag of laws that can be stood up for, unfortunately, which is what it is.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0168par0564	We're behind the bill, Mr. Kusoglu. We're behind the bill, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0166par0565	If you were behind him, you'd have seduced him, you'd be proud to tell him, we're bringing these, we're doing these. Is there any point in coming out after the warning? If the Minister of Finance or someone in the name of the government is sitting here, it'll come out like this...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0168par0566	We defended it strongly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0166par0567	...he defends strongly, then he doesn't come out, not like this. Now, you said in your presentation, Mr. Finance Minister, that there is a very strong system in Turkey in 2 areas; the public financial system is one, and the banking sector is very powerful. I won't say anything about the banking sector, but it's impossible to say that the public financial sector is very powerful, the financial system is very powerful, my dear friends. If you're also watching recent developments, if you're also looking at recent developments, it's also impossible to say that if you see that a public sector, economic sector, economic management, is desperate to face that. Now, dear friends, there are also two affinities in the second chapter. Mr. President, I would especially like to remind you that due to the fact that these are also admissible, they need to pass in a qualified majority. This is the way the 22nd and 36th things should be considered, because they both have pardonful provisions. My dear friends, yes, on a troubled day, we are trying to make a law here, and I've come to the stand in great distress. In an environment like this, we're not even allowed to say some things, even the things we need to say. We want to tell the public what they want, what they need, but sometimes it's up to us to say it. Today, unfortunately, rather than economic measures, the public now has a demand for security, which is the basic demand, which we need to consider. In particular, we need to consider, debate, ask the public, elaborate on this proposal for the presidency, which will begin on Monday. We all have a very important responsibility for this matter. Let's hope we all succeed in that responsibility. I give you all this opportunity to pay my respects and wish you good luck.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0169par0573	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0170par0577	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the second part of Bill 446. I salute you all. Dear MPs, I pray for the mercy of God and the healing of the wounded to our citizens who died in the attack in İzmir. No matter who it comes from, no matter what the purpose, I'd like to point out that we don't approve of the method of seeking a solution with violence, and we condemn such acts of violence. Dear friends, of course it's not enough to condemn, most of the time. What happens every time, unfortunately, the events that cost the lives of many of our people, our citizens, cannot be prevented by reproaching or eunuchs. Just yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker Mr. Numan had stated that Syrian policy was a big mistake from the beginning, and that they were trying to fix it, and that they were trying to fix it, in an interview with the Ankara Bureau of Hurriyet. Dear friends, we, the People's Democratic Party, on this stand from the beginning of the Syrian civil war, repeatedly expressed that Syria's policies were wrong, that the position of the AKP's ruling on Syria, the involvement of Syria's internal affairs, the effort to form policy on a certain sectal axis would have very wrong results; even that the support of some selefi groups through alliances with Qatar and Saudi Arabia, could turn to those organizations, including ISIS, in the end, through which groups have been helped by Turkey's anti-Assad and anti-Kurdish policy. There are many examples of this. You know, in the past, the United States supported the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan against Russia. But in the end, what had happened? At some point, Al Qaeda returned and shot America. Now, dear friends, remember a brief history of the reflection of the error of Syrian policy on us: What was this policy and what was reflected in Turkey as a result of the interests of ISIS and Turkey, as a result of their own secret relations? First, if you remember, on May 11, 2013, a bomb went off in Reyhanlı, but at that time, the government insisted that they would not sell it to ISIS, and tried to sell it to Bezar Assad, and thus cover it up. Then, on March 20, 2014, three militants of ISIS again attacked soldiers who had road control, and one petty officer killed one soldier and one civilian again. There's still no conclusion from that trial. Again, dear friends, there was an attack on tourists in Sultanahmet on 6 January 2015. Bomb attacks on Adana and Mersin HDP buildings were launched on May 18, 2015 at our party's Diyarbakır rally on June 5, 2015, one day before the election. The Suruç massacre took place on July 20, 2015, and further actions were carried out in Turkey by groups of jihadists such as ISIS or ISIS. The Ankara Gar massacre took place on October 10, 2015. İstanbul İstiklal Street, again at Ataturk Airport, carried out live bomb attacks. There was an action against a wedding in Gaziantep, and the last attack on Reina took place. In all these actions -- let's remember -- the government's approach to the government, the government's approach, has entered into a structure, such as either supplying cocktail organisations, or somehow still polluting ISIS, not allowing it to be possible that ISIS could do it. Whereas, dear friends, Turkey, which has been feeding and providing all kinds of opportunities in Syria for five years, allowed many foreign national ISIS terrorists from abroad to cross over Turkey into Syria, has faced ISIS (Islamic) with the inevitable situation at the point of the ISIS terrorist organization being a terrorist organization, as well as Turkey, and Turkey has been forced to declare it as a terrorist organization, especially in order to prevent the Kurdish corridor from forming Cerablus, the Fırat Shield operation, and ISIS, but at that time, ISIS was also began to reaping the equivalent of the U.S.A.P.A., such as Al-Qaedaedaed in the past. Dear friends, without learning from the past, historical partnerships, historical experiences in the Middle East, if you produce politics through a purely conjunctural, pure ethnic or cultural structure, the outcome of that policy will turn and shoot you like a boomerang. Today, after the Aleppo exchange, Turkey will pay a price as a result of the abandonment of the El Nusra terrorist organization by Turkey. Not only Al Nusra, but the blockage in El Bab, after an agreement with Russia and Iran in Moscow, it is possible that Turkey will abandon the organisations it has already supported in order to prevent a Kurdish formation there -- including ESO -- all of which will eventually return to Turkey, Turkey, which it will hit. I support every anti-Kurdish organization to create a Kurdish corridor. With logic, when you act with your mentality, and when you don't get results, when you turn around and sell Al Nusra to the regime, like selling Aleppo. When you leave, these organizations will return, like ISIS, they will attack Turkey. In this respect, the policy we followed in Mr. Numan Suriye was wrong. We take it as a direct criticism. But if, in this case, Turkey will emerge from this stalemate of right policies, especially with a democratic, liberal and peace-based policy in the country, in the same way, in foreign relations, including Kurds in Syria, as well as with all friendly peoples, as well as with the Kurds, as with the creation of a democratic, equal, libertarian Syrian government, then Turkey will be the most useful country in the Middle East. In this case, Turkey will be built as a democratic, peaceful country. Otherwise, the policy of Syria was wrong. If you say, "There is a new wrong policy," the reflection of this will, unfortunately, make us and our people pay a heavy price. As a matter of fact, operations will continue until the last terrorist remains. Even though it is said, the ISIS is not finished, the ISIS attacks are not stopped, and there is no telling what kind of attacks we will face tomorrow. Therefore, I demand that the government return to the right policy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0171par0587	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. Master Erhan, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0172par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a contribution to the discussion of his lifestyle earlier. We know that in our country, trying to divide our country, our nation, as a matter of choice, is an endless game of terrorism and its ancestors abroad. None of us should be in this game. The years that our ecclesiastical rule with tolerance and justice -- which has often happened -- have peaked in the years that we know that peace and quiet have peaked in our country. In fact, history has been a witness that for centuries our nation's hearts have been the safest refuge of the persecuted, looking for friends. The president of this group meeting on Tuesday is the subject of our late judge II. In his speech, Mahmoud gave these phrases. It says II. Mahmoud: I notice the Muslim subject in the mosque, the Christian in the church, the Jewish in the synagogue. There's no difference between them. My tribe of conversation and justice about its sentence and they are all my true children, so we, as politicians and institutions, should not use a polarizing, polarizing language that separates religion from religion.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0173par0596	I'll turn on your microphone, complete.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0172par0597	And our institutions need to make the most of it. This is a vital issue for our country to live in peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit04spe0173par0599	Thank you, Mr. Master. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0173par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the second part. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0174par0011	Mr. President, I have pledged to express the views of the National Party of Action on the second chapter of the main and 446 rows of the proposed Law Bill (1/796). I salute your high council. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs who lost their lives today in this hand in İzmir, and to the Turkish nation's head, and to the wounded, I pray for immediate healing. This afternoon, again, we were at the funeral of our Hamza Lightning petty officer, who had been martyred in El Bab. We went to my villager and the burial. Of course, the stoves are going out, the stoves are going out, the Turkish nation is going out to keep this nation's stove going out, but we hope that -- we prayed there today, that this would be the last time -- but before we left, we learned about the incident in Izmir. Hopefully that'll be the end of it, that's our wish. I hope that this terror, our country, our nation, our flag, our state, we will all end together, hand in hand, nationly. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the bill we're discussing, it's a bag of laws that include a lot of issues that have no connection to the issue again. Earlier, we had stated that the bag of laws that came to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be discussed according to the interest of every regulation, that the bag of laws should be abandoned. This bill, which has been developed contrary to the issues of the Prime Minister's Rules of Orders and Originals, does unfortunately not have any analysis of the impact of arrangements in different areas. Therefore, analysis of the potential benefits and costs of the bill cannot be done. The overall reason for the bill is to improve the investment environment, reduce the cost of processing, encourage the growth of businesses, increase investment, production and employment. Unfortunately, the only arrangement for employment with the bill appears to be an additional contract of employment at Recep Tayyip Erdogan University on Article 35. So far, many bags of law have passed in order to increase the production of investment. As the National Movement Party, we have always supported production, employment, and regulations that we see as a boost in growth, but we have also expressed that the measures taken are daily and palliative, that they are not in a state of integrity, and that there are regulations without strategy. So many of the arrangements that have been made so far have, unfortunately, been ineffective, and the point we've come to confirms that. Mr. President, the economy of Turkey has spent 2016 as a nightmare, growth has turned negative, inadequacy in savings, decline in foreign trade, counter-depreciation of the current deficit, growth of budget deficits, the loss of value of Turkish lira -- which is approaching 30 percent. Basically, the basic components of the economic straits have emerged. Adding unfair taxes, young unemployment, unregistered and social distortions, social reconciliation has threatened dynamics. Turkey's economy is increasingly divided in negative directions from precedent countries. The lack of an economic-based approach to economic policy, avoidance of production, unemployment, inflation, increased debt, corruption, a predictable legal and justice system has a negative effect on economic developments. At this rate, further economic problems will be inevitable next year. Mr. President, I'd like to bring your attention to some of the regulations that have been brought to you by some of the provisions in the second part of this bill. Essentially, the loan guarantee fund arrangement brought here to the SMEs, where the treasure will take responsibility for the damage is important and delayed practices related to institutional tax advantages for the trade record, manufacturing industry and SMEs, the SEC bonus incentives, job health and safety. I would like to point out that we find these practices positive, but it is an important provision that must be taken into consideration for the provision of free treasure for forty-nine years to those who know tax-existing and engage in educational and housing activities for students in the 21st article of the bill. The negative developments and developments in the home and education institutions of unauthorized and unsupervised foundations and associations in Turkey, the failure of the children of poor families to hand over congregation and cultlike formations, and the meeting of needs by the state, are an important issue. In addition, the bill leaves the preference to three ministries. This is a question of whether or not to transfer to certain foundations. In Article 29, the extradition of most luxury vehicles seized in customs due to illegal importation will encourage such smuggling and favour the interests of a particular group. In Article 36, an arrangement has been said to aim to make the ships and yachts anchored in ports Turkish-banded, but it is estimated that the exception of foreign flag-bearing luxury yachts, tax, mortars and funds as part of the entity's peace, will result in the loss of 16 billion euros in revenues in 2017. Article 23 is aimed at raising the amount of bail provided to businesses by loan guarantee institutions to 250 billion TL, so that businesses' access to finance can be increased. Such a large sum and bail is an important risk to banking and the country's economy. During the AKP period, our producer appears to have lost his competitiveness in our country, and our tradesman, who struggles only to survive, is far from making new investments for growth. There are serious cash shortages and collection shortages. In fact, what we're experiencing these days may not be expressed as a cash shortage. If you want to call it a full name, in my opinion, it can be expressed as the nuance of the liquid process. In fact, there's money in the market, in the economy, but people are afraid of cash transactions because of insecurity. For him, the economy needs to give economic actors that confidence as soon as possible. Precious lawmakers have also said that the check held at the Turkish Union's Risk Centre on register forgiveness may not be taken into account by credit agencies and financial institutions if all records related to the bond and credit card debt are paid or restructured. Our concern for these matters has been expressed in previous talks by our Istanbul MP Arzu Erdem Ma'am. I hereby wish, despite the shortcomings and errors of these arrangements, the blessings of our country and the Turkish nation, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0175par0026	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. The talks on the second chapter for groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the MPs who have asked for a word on behalf of themselves. First speaker on behalf of İbrahim Aydemir, Erzurum MP. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0176par0032	Mr. President, thank you very much, and I salute you in person, our High Council, our MPs. The name of the bill that we discussed is very clear: The pensioner is the person who died with the work of the great work and services of the country. We add, with experience and hard work, is the true architect of Turkey, who walked into the future. I'd like to go over this in order to be clear. Retirement services in the EC PARTI rulings have been activated in a way that is unacceptable to the past. Hususen, the monthly bonding period has shortened, and most importantly, the boring, crushing, upsetting red tape has dropped to a minimum. That's why the prayers, the pure supplications, are pouring down on us. In the name of God, we give thanks, and let's move on. We've paid maximum attention to the protection of our pensioners in the face of inflation. Moreover, we have done studies to ensure serious increase in revenues due to the previous year. Financial parameters, values, in this sense, are the whitest form for white hearts. There's more. We all know that the greatest dreams of employees are to have a home, to have a home of their own. We've had special work to do with it. With the help of the TOKI, we have demonstrated the will to house pensioners under the proper conditions. In the coming time period, there will be much greater steps taken along this path. Let's keep it going. We've taken another approach: we've put an end to the pay-per-view of our pensioners. We're paying a delivery fee now, and we're doing this without any burdens, no financial burdens. Dear President, members of lawmakers, at our last group meeting, our Prime Minister had a special transfer of good news, good news, good news. We're investing in trades and private funds, like unemployment insurance. The hard-core, narrow-down shopkeeper will not worry anymore. Details, details, hopefully, will be presented much clearer, much clearer when it comes to the General Assembly. Thank God we don't have any cutbacks. The one who works and the one who works is above our heads. And we don't see it as a kind thing to do. What we do is a surrender of rights, a duty to justice. That's why our people rapped the whites to the best of their hearts. We have entered the 15th year, and by the grace of the Lord God, we will have fifteen more years of service. My dear friends, the world knows that while we're doing this, the political floor is not for peace and quiet, but for those who want to block the country. I've always been in the service of free will, against dozens of evil, evil games, directed from within and from the outside. Look, please project only for the second half of 2016. Osman Gazi Bridge, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Eurasian Tunnel, Ilgaz İlgaz İstiklal Tunnel, Filyos Harbor and Industrial Region, all these projects are a record of Turkey's determination to develop and develop in a clear vision. We are grateful for the divine will that employs us in this field, and we ask in prayer. We're calling for the opening of the new era to open the door to development, development, prosperity, to ensure the essential condition -- the institutionalisation of the periodal stability and trust. We're doing this as much as we are with the tongue. May the Supreme Assembly make a date supporting the Constitutional Amendment. Be grateful to all and all those who have worked on this road, who have tried to mark the will of the nation as a mark of honor to the Constitution. As I finish my speech, I would like to express my regret that I met today's incident in İzmir, which was painful, and that I cursed the terrorists from this nation's stand... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And here I condemn and condemn those who never, ever, ever, ever, speak to them from that stand to that floor, not once, at the point of reproach. I'm doing this for the brothers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0177par0047	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Utku Çakırözer, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0178par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I curse the terror attack on our beautiful Izmir. Our martyrs are police officer Fethi Sekin and the court clerk Musa Can. I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. Dear friends, what is the nature of this bill, which again comes before us as a bag of laws, contrary to the Constitution? It appears that the face of the pensioners, 400,000 officers, is affecting our pension. For days it has been described as a bonus to the pensioners and a Christmas gift to the pensioners. More than thirty years of our pensioners' services were not considered pensions, so we're going to settle this with this arrangement. It's not really your doing, it's the Constitutional Court's doing. You've only been able to bring the decision to our attention two years later. If you were not ashamed that the pensioner would be called a three-cent bonus, you would actually pay with a penny. The commission gave up paying with a penny on our notice and was raised to a minimum of 100 lira. As for citizens, taxes, raises you don't listen to our demands to update these payments, which are the rights of poor pensioners, by the Constitutional Court's decision. You can bring back pardons on a lot of things, you can edit them. Millions of dollars in yachts, boatloads, illegal Mercedes don't tax a dime, but, you know, that's not how pensioners get their rights updated and paid their interest, folks. My dear friends, in this package, there are special arrangements for delivery, individual or institutional. Look, it's only been a few weeks over there, and we've all been under the law, and our young in the community home in Aladağ have been burned alive because there were no adequate precautions. In 2008, 17 students and 1 instructors lost their lives in their dorms, whose trial has been ongoing for eight years. An electric stove fell in the building of a Koran course in Diyarbakir Kulp. 6 of our children died. Here at Karaman, a former teacher of the Ensar Foundation raped 45 students in the house rented by people close to the Ensar Foundation. Look, just two days ago, the head of the Rize Branch of the Ensar Foundation was sentenced to twenty-four years in prison for sexual assault on two children. So, what's in this package? In this package, many of these foundations, which are already equipped with large privileges, are given free public goods for forty-nine years, including schools and dorms, and at the moment, there are also a few rental agreements to be made free of charge. We're very concerned about that. That's why there are commissions in this House. The Ensar matter is not forgotten. There is still no transparency about TRUGEV. Look, after July 15th, we're talking about this incident. So, how did this happen? He came to their schools, their dorms, their classrooms with your support. The boys who grew up there were the ones who bombed the coven that night. Don't we ever learn from our mistakes? We want the social state to do these things, as the Constitution says -- his school, his home -- and you want to give it to these foundations for nothing. Aren't the children burning in Aladağ a thing to your conscience? Don't you ever feel sorry for our young who've lost their illegal sleeper Koran class in their dorms? Not according to this, my dear friends. My dear friends, this package has a minimum wage allowance for employers again. We asked the Commission both the workers and the employer's representatives, and they asked that this support be implemented in union, collectively contracted businesses, but this request was not heard by the government. Besides, we should have given the same support to the farmers, to our merchants, and to our chiefs, unfortunately, it wasn't. We've reiterated our request not to be taxed on minimum wage. We have to get minimum wage on the hunger line, but none of that is being done in this package. My dear friends, this package again has a tax pardon for millions of dollars in ships, yachts, cruise boats. Who gave you no tax, no tuition, no funding, not even to be asked backwards? How did you get it? Is there a special arrangement for surrendering to the Adress, whether such a wide exemption should be brought to mind? It raises the question. There will be no taxes on rich people's yachts, speedboats, cruise boats, but the tax will continue on the citizens' Haci Murat, Vosvos, and plop motorcycles. This is injustice, inequality, injustice. We're not saying he shouldn't, of course, let them come under the Turkish flag, but our boats are going under the Turkish flag. We can't afford to launder money under the name of my dear friends. My dear friends, I'll tell you what we're going to do, what we're going to do. First of all, the so-called constitutional amendment, the transition to the fundamental regime, the transition to the authoritarian regime, needs to be withdrawn, we need to finish the OHAL, we need to get back to normal order as soon as possible. Withdraw the constitutional package, remove the State of Emergency, release journalists, lawmakers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Let's separate the hand-offs from their supporters and innocent citizens, let's have more dialogue, talk, argue, make our social peace. Believe me, if we can do these things, we can have a much bigger impact than this package. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0179par0063	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. Congressmans, the talks on the 2nd chapter are over on behalf of groups and on behalf of individuals. Under Article 72 of the Civil Code, a motion to continue the talks has reached the Presidential Court. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that negotiations be continued according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. Tulip Carabinieri Free Musa Pine Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Kazım lion I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0180par0076	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit05spe0179par0077	There's got to be a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the MPs who have requested roll call. Mr. Karbüyük, Mr. Çakırözer, Mr. Şündağ, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Arik, Mr. Çayük, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Minister, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Turkoğlu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Kara, Mr. Akyçı, Mr. Sarydan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0179par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the motion to continue the talks, according to Article 72 of the Civil Charter, the meeting on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to continue negotiations to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes on the second chapter. The records of the friends who entered the system were deleted because we had a break, but I have the records, so I'm going to read them, so in order to get them back into the system. Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Kuğriyet, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Kazım Arslan, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Shooter, Mr. Baki Simsek. Initiating question process. Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0181par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to recent reports, only 89 people and 1,970 people across the country have been victims of business killings. Despite the fact that the conditions of the State of Emergency are being imposed against workers, do you plan to take precautions and to pave the way for organisation, especially for the organization of workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0182par0023	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0183par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'd like to know how much foreign currency, gold, and the laws mentioned in this last grant of wealth have come from abroad to 31/12. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0184par0027	Mr. Karbük, come in.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0185par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will you be working to increase the disabled staff? Besides, the current disabled staff isn't fully occupied. I want to know how this is going to go on. Another question: teachers are being hired along with the KPSS exam and the interview, but the ratio of the interview to the KPSS exam is not clear. An interview rate here has to come at least. How does the government intend to overcome this uncertainty? And I'd like to know about that -- I think it's important -- for all the teachers and candidates.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0186par0031	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0187par0032	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: Under the 21st article of Law Bill 446 that we're discussing, the Council of Ministers grants a non-expensive right for forty-nine years of non-existent altitude over non-responsive transports of public institutions and institutions to the foundations that are tax-free, which continue education and domestic activities for students. What is the reason for these procedures and for which the state's resources have been assigned to admissible foundations? Wouldn't it be better if he did it himself instead of assigning these relocations to the state's allies and sectarian homes for free, provided for the needs of our students' housing? Two: Have you forgotten what young people who have grown up in cult dorms and homes who have attempted the coup attempt on July 15 since school and dorms have been left to cults in the past? Haven't you learned from this yet? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0188par0035	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0189par0036	Minister, when the trade goes bankrupt, you want to apply for unemployment insurance. This must be a report card, such as the application of the earthquake fund, as shown in AKP's practices in the past. When this practice is sunk, it is true that the sinking tradesman's feeding with this fund will not benefit from its needs and expenses, but that this fund will often provide a fullness in Turkey when it is collected, an economic contribution from the fund. In view of this fact, if the funds collected here are really intended to be distributed to our tradesman or to pay him unemployment benefits, measures must be taken to ensure that our tradesman does not lose or fail. We're waiting for your work on that, too, shop...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0188par0038	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0190par0039	Cyprus, eastern, southeast veterans ask the government for special awareness in 2017, and I want to know if Mr. Finance Ministry has any work to do with it. Again, in February 2017, you know that teachers are waiting for the appointment half a year later. While there were over 400,000 teachers, the subcontractor system was brought in to teach, and I was wondering if you had a study for teachers who were willing to give it up and wait for a trained, well-equipped appointment. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0191par0042	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0192par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, let's look at the early results of how you've managed the country in the last six months with state-of-the-art. Is the terror over? No, it was the other way around. Is the economy better? No, the opposite goes to $4. You left the country without electricity in the middle of winter. You've taken in journalists, students, opponents, so that no one can see or hear or read what you've done. You've removed the president's election to universities. You've made your followers officers without exams. You've extended his probation to 30 days. As if it weren't enough, you performed one of your illegal government-run rehearsals by pretending to meet the National Security Council to extend its extraordinary state to nine months. In 14 years, you've brought the state to the point of collapse, division, as the Prime Minister calls it. Do you think the presidency is the most important problem in this country? What kind of trouble would the presidency be? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0193par0046	Mr. Baki Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0194par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my questions are about the fuel industry. Why don't you set up the automation system for the dealerships with the main distribution companies? My second question is, because some major distributors own a subsidiary of their own, they combine two profits from their own dealerships and sell under the purchase cost of the normal dealership, which prevents competition. The UTV-free fuel you've given the ships is illegally coming into the market, replacing the form of tax enforcement, where instead of cheap fuel... I also think that non-OTV fuel should be given to the movers. All products sold under cost need to be questioned and considered off-the-book. And it shouldn't be transferred on a momentary invoice. More than one shipment should not be allowed to be made with a semantics.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0195par0054	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0196par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Education and housing services in a social state are the responsibility of the state. In our country, however, foundations and congregations are in line with national education. Unfortunately, our children are paying for the problems that this situation has caused. During the new school year, thousands of students could not move to the dorms. That's why I know the kids who dropped out of school. Is it true that after July 15th, the seized dorms were transferred to the foundations? It is said that they will not be moved to the treasury by the amendment to the 446 rows. The building, the land, etc., will be assigned to those who provide education and housing for free. What are the foundations that are remembered here? By what criteria will these foundations be determined? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0197par0060	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0198par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. In December of February, the Minister of National Education's answer was not obvious. Mr. Minister of Finance, can you give me an update on this? Will there be a teacher's appointment in February? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0199par0064	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Now, I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0200par0067	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Liberty, they've given us some information on the labor killings, thank you. They talked about a social event that none of us would ever approve of, would stand up to. And the numbers you've given are really scary. We must have a common struggle against them. But important regulations have been made during our government's time for organizing in the business environment, development of labour rights. Secondly, we've been saying it from the beginning, and this is how the practices go, and we've declared a state of emergency. We have never implemented an arrangement that affects the daily life of a citizen, nor will we ever apply it again. Mr. Kusoglu asked about the peace of existence, as of the end of the year, regarding the assets brought in. First of all, you know, we've extended the deadline for what we call a peace of existence. The Council of Ministers went to an extension of six months, using the authority vested in by the law. As a ministry, we've arranged for a notification on this issue, a notification that opens up the peace of the entity, which guides the implementation. In this way, our citizens will be able to bring their assets, their money, their currency, their gold, their assets, to Turkey in a secure manner; our banks, our financial institutions will accept such assets. Again, there will be no investigation, investigation, and investigation regarding our citizens who have brought such assets. We, the Ministry, will be doing intensive work on the implementation of entity peace, especially from the coming months. We're going to tell our citizens about the peace of existence, we're going to introduce it to them, but let me also say that in accordance with the law of peace, our citizens will benefit from it, because starting from 2018, we'll start sharing information among countries regarding assets abroad, which are backwards from 2018. Let me tell you, it's an application for the benefit of our citizens. You know, in practice, when our citizens bring in their assets, they don't have to make a statement to the Treasury Department. There's no way the IRS is getting any notice either. In this practice, our citizens will bring their assets to banks, bring them to financial institutions, and all their records will be kept there. Mr. Karbük, about the disabled staff...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0201par0074	Zero, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0200par0075	No, as of right now, we don't have any data as a statistics and data ministry because banks and financial institutions run the whole practice. They asked me a question about the disabled staff, but... if you'll allow me to get some information from the Ministry of the Family, I'll get that information from the Ministry of Family if there's any work on those disabled staffs. Again, in this KPSS, you said there was a shortage of teachers in the interview. I'm going to call our Minister of National Education right now, and if there's a lack of proper determination in this matter, I'll share it with you when I get some information from him. Mr. Arslan has made an assessment of a clause in the bill regarding the foundations. Let me make it clear that our Ministry of National Education and our universities are working very hard to meet the needs of our citizens, our students, in a more qualified and needed way. There's nothing missing from that. For the past 14 years, we've put a lot of serious resources into education, we've increased university numbers, we've increased school numbers, we've increased classroom numbers. Again, there's nothing wrong with domestic services. In particular, it has increased almost twice the number of students it has hosted in recent years. These services are run by the government, and they will continue to be conducted. But NGOs and charities want to do that. They're doing a lot more here than we've given them with the help they've been collecting from the philanthropists. So in a society with a foundation culture like ours, it's an opportunity for these foundations to do more of these services, to make them more qualified. It is already available. Only here is an arrangement for the price. Mr. Zeybek, they've made an assessment of the tradesman, and I'd like to say that we've been working on it. Mr. Durmaz, this is Cyprus, about Southeast veterans... of course, as it concerns the Ministry of Family Affairs, I need to talk to the Ministry of Family about it. As for the appointment of teachers: Friends, you know, we will conduct work on the distribution of public personnel for the first public appointment in 2017, as the Ministry of Labor and Finance. In the framework of this established work, we will determine the quotas for which title to be assigned to which institution from the new deficit. These studies will also be revealed in the coming period. Mr. Pitcher, of course, made some assessments from his perspective. I don't want to make my own assessments of them at this point, but I mean, as the government, we bring in the presidential system as a party, bring in the presidential system, change the system in parliament, tell our community, tell our nation. That's what the General Assembly will be discussing. Then all these changes will be presented to the will of the nation, which is above all will. Our citizen, our nation, will use your appreciation on this matter. Mr. Lightning has made an assessment of the dealerships and the fuel industry, but if we could just talk about it, I might need a little more detail on the details. If we talk about it together, I'll make an assessment. Mr. Pineak asked me a question about the confiscated foundations, and I'll study his details. Mr. Özdemir asked a question about the appointment of teachers, but we're going to do an evaluation with the Department of Labor on the quotas, and eventually we're going to determine which staff, which title to appoint. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0202par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer on the section is complete. I will now make a promise to the two members of parliament who have demanded a statement according to Article 60. Mr. Open...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0203par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the precious MPs, the treacherous, low-down and backstabbing terror attack that took place this afternoon in İzmir, we wish Allah's mercy on our family, our fellow citizens, our great nation, to be patient with God, who have fought the terrorists to the full extent of their last shot, who have prevented two terrorists from being able to prevent a greater disaster, and who have drunk a greater tragedy of testimony, and who have sought immediate healing for our wounded.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0202par0096	Thank you, Mr. Open Door. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0204par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to share a very sad news I just received from Afyonkarahisar, my constituency today. Unfortunately, there was an explosion at a bakery on the busy streets of our city. I wish all my wounded countrymen a speedy recovery. We don't want to go through this again. Our hearts were burned by the explosion of Izmir, by the treacherous attack. We wish God's mercy to our fellow martyrs there, and an immediate healing to our wounded. We don't want one more terrorist incident in this country, one tear, pain, sorrow; we want to live in unity, unity, brotherhood.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0205par0102	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Congressmans, our Presidential Court has been submitted a motion in accordance with the new clause which has changed Article 20 of the Value Tax Act 3065. According to law-making technique, the order of the motion comes after Article 8 of the bill. According to Parliamentary regulations, a motion that has been passed has not been implemented. However, it is understood that there is a consensus among the political party groups on the implementation of the motion. With the presence of an agreement and the fact that there are no objections to the processing of this motion by lawmakers following talks, I will take this motion into consideration, not to set a precedent. As they know, it is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires that a clause of the bill or proposal be changed, which does not exist in the Commission's text, but is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the Commission has already attended. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins the motion with only 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the following clause be added after the 15th Article of the Law shall be adopted and other articles shall be considered according to the Law and Law Act of the Republic of Turkey. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Melike Basmacı Erhan Master Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Fehmi Cubic The following sentence was added after the second sentence in Article 29 of Article 29 of Law 16-3065. However, non-refundable taxes can be extradited within the year, including sectors, goods and services groups and periods set by the Finance Ministry. Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0206par0122	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0205par0123	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the basis of the proposal's tender, Bulent Kuşoglu is Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kusoglu, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0207par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. It's a amendment proposal for Level Value Tax Law 3065; it's a facilitator for exporters, which we've agreed to, with regard to VAT extradition. It's a change that we've determined is true in our system, so we've approved it, and we wish it good luck. I would like to take this opportunity to say that tax is a very valuable subject, my dear friends. At such a time in the economy, in a time of distress, in a time when their problems were too much, in a time of disorientation; in a time when we couldn't see ahead, a month later, or even a week later, tax policies, finance policies, are very, very important. For him, there should be a more careful implementation of finance and tax policies especially at this time -- companies, investors, especially those involved in production -- should not be troubled. Unfortunately, in our case, the tax issue is generally synonymous with auditing, so it is considered to be an auditer only. However, the financer is also a guide; he needs to make sure that the firm works better, more organized, that his records, the books, the documents, and the information are kept better, so that the company can see the future better. It shouldn't just be because of the direction of control, and in the macro sense, tax and finance policies should be guiding the entire sector, in a positive sense. We have about 500 or so billion on 2017, if I remember correctly -- now that I've come out of nowhere -- we're predicting 511 billion tax dollars, but -- the vast majority of this -- if we subtract from the public, if we subtract the indirect taxes, we can call it direct tax, income and institutional tax is very low, I'm afraid. In our budget of 645 billion dollars -- income and institutional tax based on a statement of $645 billion -- unfortunately, around 5 percent, below 10 per cent; I have to say this. We're gonna have to increase that in a roundabout way. Our biggest tax pen, unfortunately, is the private consumption tax (OTV), the indirect taxes, such as the tax on motorized land transports. These things need to come out of the way slowly, but there's no way they can be done at a time like this in the economy. For him, tax policy has to be more elastic, more sensitive at this time, and, as in this arrangement, it has to be easier for companies. My dear friends, when I said that... yesterday, in order to go faster, there were some issues in this bag of law that we couldn't discuss with the General Assembly, even though we wanted to tell you. I'd like to say that in particular. For example, one of the issues is about social security, about our employees, and also about tax related paraphylaxis. Now, when most of our employees work, especially in public, when they work as officers, for example, they get 4,000 liras, and when they retire, they get a thousand-and-a-half lira, 1,500 lira, top salary. Suddenly, when he retires, this decline in his income gives him a victim. No one complains about it, doesn't want to retire, doesn't get along. Let God not put back what he sees. They say, "There is such a beautiful prayer." Now, think about it, he gets 4,000 liras, he gets 5,000 liras, and all of a sudden, there's not half of it, there's more than half of it. This person has to work, his income, he has to cover that distance. She doesn't want to retire for him, she's going through a lot of trouble, she's going through a crisis as a family. This creates great problems in society when it spreads throughout society. The public, in fact, has to cut bonuses on the actual payment, the actual salary. This year -- I've already told you -- there's a transfer of 116 billion treasures from the Treasury to the Social Security Agency, 116 billion. Well, we're making this transfer. If we're making this transfer, why don't we really charge people a bonus on their income, we don't get bonuses, why don't we do that? It's already being transferred, so the public will have its expenses. But it already exists, it's happening. So I don't think it makes much sense to think that it's a expense enhancer. This has to be fixed at this stage. After all, social security, social insurance is a balance, an actuary account. As much as the premium has been paid, he should be paid in full, but like I just said, over his real salary, over his real salary, we don't get a bonus from him, for public employees, and then we say there's smuggling, there's loss, we squeeze the private sector. In fact, the most important part of the loss is in the government, in the public. There's no way to tell if this isn't happening. Now, there are some items in the bag about individual retirement, you'll see. We encourage individual pension, in terms of individual pension, there's a 25 percent state contribution to people who pay, 25 percent. Well, we encourage him, but why do we leave social insurance like this lame, making it uncomfortable? Shouldn't we support them, too? Shouldn't we make sure he gets a bonus on his real fee? I think it's the wrong kind of work, I think it's the public business. There's something wrong with the public, there's real loss, there's smuggling. We're trying to make up for it in the private sector, but I'm afraid we don't go public. That kind of trouble, that needs to be taken care of. Of course, let's support individual pension, but we have to think of it as a second foot. Compulsory insurance, or social insurance, is essential, and according to our Constitution, social insurance must be encouraged. The priority is here, so in order to close this gap in social insurance, I think we need to make this mistake a priority move to cover this actuary imbalance, and then we need to support that 25 percent government contribution in individual retirement. Other than that, I'll tell you about the tax: After the new national income calculations by TÜİK (TİK), many things have been turned upside down since this new series. We're confused as people who are interested in economics, who are interested in finances, so we don't understand a lot of things. So I said yesterday, for example, that we need about 1 percent of agricultural support for national income, for example, the illegitimate domestic population, and now we're below half the law, and now we're under half the law, but in terms of the tax on a lot of calculations, the numbers have changed the same way about the tax load. We're way behind on the tax load of OECD. In this case, we need to raise taxes, and tax policy has to change in that sense. Now, what's to be done? It needs to be acted accordingly. Yesterday I asked Mr. Secretary: do you have any work on this, according to the new series? He said, "No, it hasn't been done yet, but it has to be done." Other than that, there was one other thing I wanted to talk to Mr. Secretary about the presence peace I just asked him about, about the grant of wealth. We had a lot of opposition, you know, and then there was a little bit of an arrangement that we wanted, but I see a difference between the notification and the law. I think the regulations we've made in the law have gone too far with the notification, where we've had arrangements to be troubled by international public opinion. If there's one more conversation, I'd like to make some statements about them. These matters are important, and they're not the kind of things that come out of nowhere and talk about them. I'm saying it's really important that we all be more careful. My compliments to all of you, sir, to be our Minister and bureaucrats in the first place.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0208par0143	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Filiz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0209par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, it is now a provision that allows the return of tax, which cannot be extradited within the year, as part of some sectors, goods and services groups. Maybe it's not an arrangement we generally disagree with. However, although this Parliament has been promised several times, although it is said that the bags are not to be made, they are not to be implemented, they are not to be made into bags, but the problem is that they continue to apply the same application regularly. And after that, a new bag of laws is being brought back to law enforcement for the slightest error of the law. This is a situation that undermines the reputation of the House, actually the reputation of the legislature, and we're always here to add this to the clause, shall we? Do we agree on this or not? We're speaking in terms of agreement, which is not really something to be done in the first place. All materials, all laws, direct laws, the Plans and Budget Commission, and before that, when they should be discussed in more detail in the secondary commissions, these talks are not held, and they are brought to the Plan and Budget Commission in a subtle way, and there are many disagreements that can arise here. Now, friends, really, we're all human in this House, and that's the pace of work, that's the way it works, not the way it works. So people who can't get together with their own families, can't take a walk in nature, can't love a cat, can't love a dog, can't love their kids, can't get up and just bury their heads in paper, can't do that. I mean, we're here as people who've been authorized, tasked to make good arrangements for people, to make good laws, to make positive changes in their lives. But when we look at our own way of life, when we look at what we're living here, we're actually growing a little bit of anger against each other from time to time, whether we want to or not. Because we don't live a normal life. In a life like this, there's no legislature, there's no law, there's no good in what's being done. Most of the time, the things that have been done... Really, I'm not just saying this for the ruling party, but I'm just saying for the friends of lawmakers who are part of all parties in general, that no one can control the inside, and no one can control the pace of this work, because they haven't been interviewed in the commissions before. However, commissions are places that require eye contact. There may be more humane work in those commissions, we can get close to each other in those commissions, we can make positive suggestions, we can make positive changes. A legislature study that does not give an opportunity to do so can't really be arranged for anyone's benefit, but we can only sign things. Now, there's another important issue in front of us, starting on Monday, we're going to start discussing a Constitutional proposal, which, in fact, means a regime change for us in this country, and we've been waiting hours for an answer from the ruling group: our people are really interested in the Constitution talks so much that they can go to a referendum called... Which, I hope, won't pass through this House, but in the event that it passes, the public's approval of an offer that will be heard by the public, that this broadcast can be watched via television through all the talks, not just on the Internet, but on our parents, or, I don't know, people who don't have access to it, who don't have access to it. Can there be a more reasonable request than that, my friends? I mean, what's more reasonable than taking something to a public vote, watching public appearances, having a clear opinion about it, asking for it? I'm really asking you this. What's your assessment of that? There's nothing to consider here. Or don't you want to be known? So, if you really trust what you're doing, if you trust that this Constitution offer is very acceptable to the public, if you believe that it's very acceptable, then we say, "Come, let's not have meetings here on behalf of groups for an hour, not more limited." Other than that, if we're going to work here day to night, night to night, whatever we're going to grow with that same inhuman tempo... because it's something that people don't really have an agenda. The public is really looking at how much the dollar has gone up today. 600 workers were removed from Arcelik, and how will I maintain my life? He looks after it. People who've been dead for years in the work killings, their relatives, are looking for a new job security, an arrangement for occupational health care. And this bag is within the law -- again, again, one of the first conversations I've made when I was a deputy here, and I talked about the stuff that was being prodded -- and again, there's a constant presence of occupational security, occupational healthcare specialists, a postponement of the substance on the creation of this employment, and I don't know if you know that we're going to vote on it in this bag, in the same way that we're going to vote on it. Which means new business accidents, new job killings, new workers' deaths. So, while we're doing all of this here, while people's agenda is actually protecting their right to live, while there's still a lot of people at work who have done the massacres, who haven't been delivered to the courthouse yet, and today we can't even discuss a single presidential regime in Izmir City, where people are actually going to go to the courthouse, where there's an attack on where people are going to go; people are going to see their lives, their children's lives, their education, their futures, their pensions, their health. What do we say? Let them see it. What do you think? Let them see. What does the Republican People's Party say? Let them see. What does the National Movement Party say? Let them see. We want this, and we still can't get the answer. Yes, please, let's create human conditions for ourselves here, and let's conduct our own human legislature. However, from the laws that we are going to make in this way, there may indeed be a blessing to ourselves and to our people. At the same time, we can have a much better dialogue with each other in the activities that we will conduct in those commissions, and I think we can all draw up more democratic, more liberal proposals for Turkey, rather than a singular offer. So this is where we say we're ready to say yes to everything. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0210par0158	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles Erhan, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0211par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I will speak very briefly. Now, we're doing our time-to-time assessments; 2017 is indeed going to be a difficult year for both the public finance and our firms in terms of Turkey's economy. Global conditions are worse, and problems with their own domestic or Turkey continue with all their violence. We need to be well prepared here in that sense. In particular, Turkey needs to keep the trade and financing channels open, which is extremely important. I mean, look, there's a trend in European countries to limit trade with Turkey in terms of financing. We provide a very important portion of our funding from the European Union countries. The fact that there is a problem here, both in finance and in business, 5 per cent of it, is a real shock in Turkey, and we need to see that. Inside, that's what we can do with confidence-enhancing, ambiguity-resistant policies. I think it's very vital. So, once again, I felt it was appropriate to say it. Now, of course, you have to be prepared for this process. You know, we're always saying that those reforms are now your job... that it's become so urgent right now -- they need to be started a little bit more immediately -- but now for more urgent matters, for 2017, for Turkey's economy, for the sake of public finance and for the whole economy, the government needs to present a plan that will protect us from the real challenges, to present our very urgent measures. I think it's very urgent. Otherwise, if we're going to talk about this motion right now, we supported this motion, we signed the motion, it's important. The thing is, you know, there are sectors or groups of goods that are being given a discounted VAT, and these companies are being bought from the government. In the current system, the transfers they will receive are not made within that year, but within the next year, they can be made the following year. Now, this is a motion that allows this to be done within the year; it's true, it's true, because our firms are really going to be stuck in cash. It's something to comfort them in terms of financing, so we support the motion. However, there shouldn't be a problem here in practice, so I'd like to warn you from here. We, of course, sign this with good intentions, and good intentions are fundamental, and we also think that good intentions will be the right practice, but I have to warn you that there is a specific sector, a specific firm -- because there is authority here -- that the Finance Ministry has the authority to determine the subject, the period, everything -- that shouldn't be used in this way. It's not supposed to create an additional uncertainty in the economy. So, you know, this year or not? Because it's not a temporary substance, it's a continuous substance. So, in the following years, I think a constant hesitation in this matter, an expectation in companies, not in a form of pressure, but in our economy, it would be very useful to make sure that the rules are laid out very well, to implement them properly, to implement them fairly. And in that sense, I would like to say that we support the motion, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0212par0170	Thank you, Mr. Master. In the name of the person on the matter, Lale Karbük is a member of the Fellowship of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0213par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, first of all, I pray for God's mercy on two of our citizens who were killed in the terrorist attack in Izmir, and for immediate healing for the wounded. Yes, we're going to continue this evening with a bag of 38 articles that are coming in on 19 separate issues, and the feature of this bag of legislation is never to be solved, but the exceptions are a heavy bag of legislation that provides short-term transitions, and we're trying to get through these 19 separate bags of legislation fast enough to narrow it down to the hours of the evening, not to discuss whether we've had enough to talk about it. By the way, the new item we're interested in is actually a document that reveals once again how the tax system slowly lost its function. Yes, we signed it, and we're not against it, but the reason why we say yes is because the taxpayers can't keep the taxes they pay off, and they stay on the government side, and they stay on the government side, and they wait. By the way, there's so much financial shortages that our firms, and the fact that they can't get this tax refund, they're in a lot of trouble, it's a fact. And so, of course, the CHP is very uncomfortable for us to agree to keep the citizens' money in the state at this time, so we accept that we say yes to this last item. Of course, the heart would have wanted to return to all of them earlier in history, without sectoral discrimination or specific property and service groups, but that's how much it can be done right now, and we're okay with that. There's something else I'd like to point out here, and I can't get past this: Congressmans, right now, there's a lot of ground damage in the market, and there's a lot of risk, and now they're having trouble getting demands. If you look at the market, the checks don't come back, and they're given checks at a very long time, we're seeing real market data now. Now I want to tell you something that shows you the real risk. Congressmans, a textile exporter, I had a meeting with a well-known Turkish brand textileist last week, and I said, "Did the market affect you, did your exports affect you?" He said, "If we don't go to those countries and bring the catalogs to the customer's feet, the customer doesn't come here." Why isn't he coming? There's terror in Turkey; dangerous, risky, we don't have safety. We're trying to keep our sales, exports at the same rate right now, but we're leaving. They definitely cancel their arrival when they get close to next week, we're going, we're going, but I don't know how long we can keep it, because he specifically stressed that when they order two seasons earlier, they order a season order now and say they're going to review it again next season. This is a very important risk for us. Yes, valuable representatives, right now these are the facts of the exporters in the market, of the firms. In addition to the many effects of terrorism in Turkey, it is necessary to express these risks and to fight terrorism as soon as possible. I can't help but point out another point while I'm at it. Yes, as we know, in August 2016, we passed what we called money laundering, but the government called the peace of existence. Now, I want to rephrase that, again, that despite the fact that the law does not have such a purpose, the fact that there is no suspicious notification of money laundering and the prevention of terrorism has been effectively eliminated from dealing with crime and criminals. Dear Regents, we're trying to fight terrorism. Well, how are we supposed to be aware of that if any terrorist organization brings this money in? Because in an uncertain system, how do we deal with terror? Look, this law, which we call money laundering, or what you call peace of existence, leads to all of this. In fact, it's going to be discussed, and there are far more serious risks that we're talking about. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0214par0184	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Mahmoud Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0215par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in fact, we're dealing with a situation here that we've encountered in every bag of law. Surely, about the bag that came in -- it's being re-examined here -- that's missing, that's missing, and we think it needs to be reviewed again, and we're taking a role here in both the economy of time and our own personal time and the public's underprivileged. Dear friends, the law in question (446) is, in fact, a bag of independent, multi-privilegal commissions. Look, we don't discuss law enforcement commissions, we throw them in a bag, and we bring them here in a hurry. Dear friends, now, in this country, Congress operates as if it were a law enforcement factory. However, we, as Regents, have a second mission here, and we also have an audit mission. Right now, the House has completely disabled its control mission. For example, research proposals are being made here; there are various proposals regarding this country's agenda, about its life, about the economy, about the terror we face, about the foreign policy we live in, but none of these proposals are considered. With the agenda of the House, the public agenda goes on in a completely different, independent way. Public safety issues, public safety issues, public travel problems, public education problems, work problems, work safety issues, but in none of these, unfortunately, we haven't taken a path so far. Dear friends, by making a day-to-day law here, there's no requirement for investing in a country where AKP has made the rich richer, but has ignored the poor, the labourer, and we're constantly saying, "Oh, let's improve investment." But, dear friends, there's no way to invest in a country where there's no peace. No matter how many laws you play with, no matter how many laws you make, if the investor doesn't see himself secure in this country, there's no way the investor can come to this country. My speaker friend just told me, now, those who want to come in here and make contact, if they think there's a life-security problem in this country and they're not coming in because of it, you can make as many laws here as you want... if there's no investment environment here, there's no price to pay for those laws you've made. Look, about the workers, about the pensioners... we're the worst living conditions in the world after retirement. You've all met, and you've all seen that a Frenchman, an Englishman, or a German, travels the world on a salary after retirement and survives without working, but in Turkey -- usually a cartoon -- ours either sell bagels in the street or spends their time selling lemons or finding a second job. Because your salary doesn't allow a pensioner to run his own life. Another important thing, dear friends, is that all political powers were until this period, but during the AKP period, we spend time making laws that give its own allies, sects, various congregations, advantage. Look, the basic duty of every country is to give quality health and education to its citizens, but right now, we've handed it over to the congregations, to the cults. In fact, on July 15th, we saw how wrong this was, and we did, but unfortunately, we didn't learn. So, what kind of law enforcement is that, in fact, what we're doing here has become a chore, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0216par0196	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. We're going to do a QA on the matter. I'll start the questions. Mr. Murat Minister...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0217par0200	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the senior police officer and petty officers have serious issues with their rights. Petty Officers have compensation issues, severance pay, commander's severance, and veteran gendarmes have problems with schools being considered as plagiarism. The ministers have made many promises about this, and the former Prime Minister has also promised, but the business comes and goes, and the Ministry of Finance does not respond to this issue. Would you care to make a statement on that?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0216par0201	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0218par0202	I'm asking Mr. Finance Minister: Adding 446 rows to the 16th article of the Bill we're talking about, especially in trade and production, and due to the difference in the VAT amount of VAT, which has been paid, not based on the appreciation of your Ministry of Finance, but on the return of VATs that are waiting for companies and real people in the Ministry of Finance -- a fact that all sectors and businesses are going to relax the markets. Therefore, I would like to request that all businesses receive these VAT returns with no distinctions. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0216par0204	Mr. Demirtaş...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0219par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to the books you distributed, Turkey's private sector and public foreign debt stock are about $426 billion. A year's short-term foreign debt is 160 billion dollars. Cari, explain that this debt is worth like $200 billion. The central bank's available reserve is not enough to pay off the debt. It is clear that there will be no hot money coming from outside this year due to your power decomposition of political stability. How do you intend to repay this debt, and what's your 2017 dry target?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0216par0207	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0220par0208	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, there are still academics out in the universities, so the exporters have been discharged, but the people standing in the open have not yet been sent to their post by the rectors. The presidents are putting it on the board, but we know it's not in the RDC, it's in the rector's initiative. Another point is that the academics of the closed foundation universities still haven't been investigated for safety, and they haven't been able to work at any university yet, they can't work anywhere, they're miserable now. I think there should be a study of the SEC, the Ministry, and the Prime Minister's office to separate them because the academic is not easy to grow, and now all these scientists are going to emigrate abroad. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0221par0212	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0222par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, let me just share with you a message from a fellowman from Sivas. I couldn't finish my bonus day, but I've reached my age, my year; I can't retire because I'm short on bonus days. Do they intend to give us the right to retire by paying us the number of days of bonuses, as did the BUG-KUR? Since I'm so old, no one gives me a job, they make fun of me because you're old, and I can't get a job. He asks if the government is expected to make an arrangement on this matter. I'm asking you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0223par0216	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0224par0217	Mr. Secretary, as you call it, our country has been run by the operational presidential system for over two years, but it seems you can't govern our country. In the last six months, you've tried to run the country on the actual presidential system, and with the State of Emergency, it seems you've failed. For God's sake, don't fool yourself, you can't run our country under any authority, understand that now.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0223par0218	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0225par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. 78 million of our citizens are now changing their wallets of identity, but the population workers are doing more than usual work without the term of overtime. Does your Ministry have any work at the point of any improvement or overtime pay for these? Again, it has become a social case in society, which has become a non-assigned public institution, which wants to transfer to its institutions, which has become a high number of experts and infantry experts. Does the government have a savings, a project, and a study? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0226par0223	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0227par0226	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, there are a number of demands regarding the rights of special police officers and petty officers, which I know in part. Of course, as the Finance Ministry, when a request from public institutions for rights comes, we consider it the Ministry within certain measures. In our assessment, when there is a demand for some of the rights of equity first, we make an assessment of the entire rights of self. Sometimes it can be different and lower in one of the elements that make up the essence, but in other matters, in fact, other conditions of those personnel can be better. So, here we are, with an understanding of justice, promoting performance, encouraging work, including the concept of equal pay for equal employment, and we are working with the Ministry of National Defense on this, so let me put it this way, but when we evaluate the rights of other exemplary professional titles, of course, we can also have different views with the Ministry. Mr. Arslan, in the motion presented by the Commission with the appropriate opinion of our General Assembly, the power granted to the Finance Ministry is also the general authority, so the Finance Ministry would normally be able to do added value tax returns after over a year, while considering budget opportunities for all sectors as well as for a period of time before a year, but as needed, it would also be possible to do so by sectors. So let me put it this way that we have the authority to cover all sectors, as you've expressed here. Mr. Demirtaş gave us some figures on foreign debt, of course, and we share the same sensitivities. There is a sense of risk in the economy, of course, with many indicators, especially current transaction deficits, external debt levels, external debt rates, significant indicators. And here's an assessment, especially recently, of private sector debt, but as a government, there have been other statements. We have implemented some measures, both in the direction of the future and in terms of the translation of existing debts. As for the dollar dry target, you know, it's completely free market economy, creating its own balance in terms of supply and demand, so as the government, we haven't set a dollar target in any way in the medium-term program. In each economic programme alone and only in order to create macroeconomic balances, there has been an indicator of a dollar level or a level of courtship. And at this point in particular, let me put it this way. Mr. Karbiyuk, I don't have these details about academics, but let me talk to the relevant institutions. I agree, so the professor doesn't grow up easy. Surely it's important for those of us who have no problems in any way in the course of investigations from our friends here to quickly take charge of their duties. I care about this as much as you do. It's the right request. Mr. Whitestar, of course, specifically mentioned a request for a retirement period. That's the kind of request our citizens have, but on the other hand, we did an important reform in the social security system, especially in 2008. In the framework of this reform, if we're making any changes in the parameters of the current system, this time we're dealing with a number of other issues related to social security deficits. But at the point of further development of our pension rights, the rights of our pensions, we are also in a government effort. Mr. Horseman, of course, made some evaluations, but he didn't ask a question. Anyway, hopefully next week, there'll be a lot of discussion about these issues in the General Assembly. Mr. Durmaz has brought up an issue with the population workers. As I understand it, the Home Office has sent a request to the population workers to pay overtime at this time. Of course, we give the Council of Ministers a positive opinion on paying overtime in exchange for increased workloads in the interim period. I have to say, we're going to have a similar approach here. I also know that the Ministry of National Defense has a study on the transition of specialist gendarmes to other institutions. We, the Ministry, are technically supporting the work. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit06spe0228par0239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0228par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are five motions on the matter, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of service groups and times with service groups shall be replaced in the second joke of Article 19, which shall be added after the 15th amendment of Law Bill 446, which is currently in session. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Ali Aslan Berdan Özturk Erol Dora Mehmet Emin Adıyaman İbrahim Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment proposal to be added after Article 15 of Law Bill 446, which is currently in session, should be changed in the form of the subsection but in the form of the second joke of Article 19. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Ali Aslan Berdan Özturk Erol Dora Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of Article 19 shall be changed by the Ministry of Financial Affairs in the second joke of Article 19, which shall be added after the 15th amendment of the Law Bill 446. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Ali Aslan Berdan Özturk Erol Dora Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the second sentence of Article 29 of Article 29 (2) of Law No. 3065 under the new clause, we propose and propose that the last word of the sentence, the last word of the sentence, be replaced as............. Free Private Tulip Karbük Murat Minister Ali Yiğit Bült Kuşoğlu Cetin Arık Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that after the second sentence of Article 29 of Law 3065, after the second sentence of Article (2) of Article 29 of Article 3065, the statement of the Ministry of Finance shall be offered by the Ministry of Finance and replaced in the form accepted by the Council of Ministers. Free Special Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Murat Minister Ali Hero Kazım Azlan Cetin Arık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0229par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0228par0039	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0230par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0228par0041	Mehmet Bekkinoğlu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0231par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, I think I know the Justice and Development Party MPs -- including the Minister -- most of the Anatolian children, most of them have complained about things that have gone wrong in the past, complained about the system. They said, "We've come here looking for justice, justice, justice, law." I'm having a really hard time getting to know him now. Look, with the package coming in right now, I think the government's giving up a dollar up to 10 billion. I looked, and I asked the Minister, and I asked the Plan and Budget Commission, how much of it goes to the poor? For example, what goes to pensioners, pensioners who have spent 30 years? Or how much money has been given up because of the disabled at work? You collect them all, they don't even find 1.5 billion. My dear friends, you really came up with justice and all, but you got caught in that classic trap. The trap is that you've fallen into the trap of using politics -- I told you yesterday -- as an instrument of savings and judgment. We're actually seeing that you're in the same trap in this package. You know, you've taken something out before, something that's going to be given to micro-sized COBIs, such as life-water loans. Now, we're getting complaints from every county; we're looking, we're reading, here's who's been given it, are they really in need? You've always given it to the people next to you, dear friends. I've got lists from Rize, from Tripoli, from Artvin, from the councilman of Justice and Development Party to the county board, from the county board... dear friends, since you're not like this, how are you, really amazing? Look, next year, in 2017 -- in your Taxes Report -- you're giving up 126 billion TL because of the exceptions or incentives. Who's this going to, and how is this happening? Do you really think you're doing the math? Okay, the government's bringing in, the group's vice presidents say that's the way it's going to be. But aren't you all responsible one by one? Won't you go to peace alone tomorrow? When you raise your hand here and there, there's no responsibility. Are you going to say, precious MP? What do you call your constituents today before tomorrow, my dear friends, I'm really having trouble understanding. Look, there's something in this package that has to do with the sailors from the packages. Haluk Pekşen described it beautifully here and made the picture look beautiful. You collect from the poor -- you do what you really complain about -- you collect from weak society, and you pass it on to the strong, and somehow these powerful ones give them a drop. You say, dear friends. It's wrong, it's not incompatible with justice, but you're doing it. Even though you're the Justice and Development Party, you're doing it. People know that, too. Let me just say something else and finish. My dear friends, you are always playing the victim. No, you're not a victim. You've been running this country for fifteen years, and everything you've complained about, everything you've called a child, has been wiped out, but the order hasn't changed in any way. Such laws came and were discussed here during those times when you called them "wedded children." I've been here for a while. We said the same thing there. There really wasn't much to be given to the large population. You're doing the same thing, you've come to the same point. Fifteen years later, the Justice and Development Party, what happened to you? Why are we like this? Do you ask questions, my dear friends? Ask me, please. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0232par0052	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0233par0056	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0232par0057	There's a request for roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karbüyük, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Bekkinoğlu, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Minister, Mr. Emir, Mr. Çakırözer, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Akyıldım, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Abaşci, Mr. Star. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the second sentence of Article 29 of Article 29 (2) of Law No. 3065 under the new clause, we propose and propose that the last word of the sentence, the last word of the sentence, be replaced as............. Free Private (Manisa) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0234par0071	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0232par0072	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0235par0073	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0232par0074	It's Cetin Arık, Kayseri MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0236par0077	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. For a long time, our country has been subjected to attacks and massacres carried out by PKK, PYD, ISIS and ▪ terrorist organisations. In all these attacks, I pray for the mercy of God to our soldiers, police and citizens, and to our veterans. I curse all acts of terror. Dear MPs, unfortunately, the AKP has still failed to learn from the attacks by religious organisations, particularly the coup attempt of the AKP and the massacres of ISIS. Religiousism, like opium, like hash, is as much in the blood of the AKP's people as it is in ISIS and ▪, it numbs their minds. Look, I'll give you an example: the Mayor of Develi district of Kayseri will meet with his students at Ahmet Yilmaz Mosque on December 29, 2016. In the photo, the mayor, the National Education Director, and the majority of students pose for the lens by making a hand signal that makes it a political symbol of the AKP. Dear lawmakers, this photograph actually means a lot more than it seems. It's a picture of people trying to teach morality to people who can't speak out to kids, who can't speak out, who can't speak out, who can't speak out, who can't speak out. What we expected from this religious minister was that I would not make politics in the mosque. He doesn't say a word to those who rape children, and to those who steal state property, it's forbidden to steal state property. He does politics with the mayor. That's not gonna happen, Congressman. That's not gonna happen. It's a picture of people who read, think, question, question the idea, fear the free, conscience of free generations of religious and spiteful generations, creating their existence for many more years from secular and scientific education. What we expect from this district's national training director, Mayor, is that I will not allow you to play politics in the mosque through these children. I'm trying to raise free-thinking, interrogating, free-minded generations. It's sad that the county director of national education is doing politics in the mosque with the mayor. This photograph is the seeds of the seed of ISIS and the seed of Isil. The mayor is doing politics at the mosque. I'm speaking to the mayor and bureaucrats here in this photo frame: get your hands off the children of this country right now. We're raising a golden generation. Don't make new mistakes that will lead this country to the brink of destruction, when you've been exposed in the July 15th betrayal of what a precipice you've come up with.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0237par0084	What was the rule of law, the law?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0236par0085	When we say these things, there are some circles associated with the AKP. See, these CHPs are quick to propaganda against prayer and against mosques. And I say to you (O dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him) that prayer and the mosque are welcome above our heads. Our rebellion is that our great religion, our rose-faced children, is being used to politics. For God's sake, stop deceiving these people with God's sake, with religion, with sacred values. (HPP) Laiklik is the guarantee of the social peace of our beautiful country. Don't destroy this peace with these dirty accounts. From here, I say to the government: Ask the mayor, who has used our great religion to his politics, and the governor of the national education. The AKP must now wake up from its sleep and act on the responsibility of the ruling party. Now he has to follow a policy that divides, polarizes, separates, differentiates; on the contrary, unites, embraces everyone. I suggest you come in, not like this, and try to be one punch with the nation for once. If the AKP government ignores our warning, if it continues its old habits, I suggest that they establish the ministry, the ministry, and the ministry, if we were martyrs, and no one should test Turkey's patience immediately. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0238par0089	Thank you, Mr. Arik. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of Article 19 shall be changed by the Ministry of Financial Affairs in the second joke of Article 19, which shall be added after the 15th amendment of the Law Bill 446. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0239par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0238par0097	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0240par0098	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0238par0099	Mehmet Ali Aslan wants to talk about the motion, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0241par0102	Mr. President and the General Assembly, I salute you. Yesterday, I referred to our Simanur White brother, who came first on the TEOG exam in Batman, but today when I learn that there is another 1st from Batman, I feel the need for him to remember his name, and to Hussein Baran Oktay here to congratulate him, his family, and his teachers. If his name is Huseyin Baran Oktay, or America's Hussein Barack Obama, Batman has Hussain Baran Oktay, and hopefully, our children will one day solve problems that we can't solve in this Parliament and Turkey, our hope, our trust, is infinite. Mr. Secretary, you weren't here yesterday, and I've been talking about problems with the disabled, and I wish there were laws against the disabled. In particular, we highlighted the need for government support at the point of meeting its basic needs. We've been talking about a lot of headlines like no electricity, no water money, no communication, no quota fees like the Internet, no medical fees, no medical examination fees, and we've received positive returns from disabled people. Hopefully, we think you'll handle this well. Again, let me get into it while the Minister is here. The disabled and the elderly, when they are paid in need of care, immediately their wages are cut in case of change of address, and since their salaries are cut, it takes a lot of time to apply again, and the file has to be re-examined. Therefore, the disabled and the elderly, those in need of care, do not want to report the change of address, and they are also being punished and paid for it. In order to avoid this situation, many of our disabled and elderly citizens, our citizen, have to be condemned to the host and the house he wants to change. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible. Again, a blind brother resides in Hidır Acar, Mersin. He received disability pensions for the past few months, but after his brother settled in, his salary was cut off and his salary was cut off, so he automatically gets health insurance, general health insurance. Therefore, he was borrowed $3,294. So what we think is that if he is disabled or old, if he is with his brother, if his brother is on the payroll, his brother is not obliged to take care of him -- it also needs to be reviewed so that he does not feel grateful for the disabled. The government's help to him is not a gift, but a necessity. Our disabled people's employment should be a priority, but until they are employed, we believe their basic needs must be met by the government, by the Treasury. We're also going to address a problem with Midyat, while Mr. Secretary is here. There are no open-school exams in Mardin districts and districts, although the university entrance exam has been taken, the 150,000-population Midyat (sometimes it will be a province) is not mentioned. At five o'clock in the morning, our people are forced to get up to the exam centers, risk their lives by car, crash, and travel to the surrounding provinces. In Midyat, too, our people demand that these trials be taken at once. Again, even though many cities and districts have car examination stations, Midyat will not exist in Midyat. The Midyats are complaining about this situation and demand that the car examination station be set up at Midyat. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0242par0110	Thank you, Mr. Lion. Members of parliament, Mr. Aslan congratulated himself yesterday as saying that a student named Simanur White from Batman and a student named Hüseyin Baran Oktay from Batman are the first on the TEOG exam. I congratulate these students from the bottom of my heart. I also congratulate the mothers, fathers, parents, and teachers who raise themselves. I know very well what a difficult test the TEOG exam is from my own child. In fact, it is important to celebrate the other winners of the TEOG exam and all the other students who have succeeded in this examination, as well as to celebrate all the students who have taken this difficult test. It's a really tough test, a couple of questions are called off every year, go to trial, cancel the trial, change the scores, change the accounts, students, parents, they're under a lot of stress. In such a stressful environment, I am truly happy and sincerely celebrating that two of our students were the first in TEOG. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment proposal to be added after Article 15 of Law Bill 446, which is currently in session, should be changed in the form of the subsection but in the form of the second joke of Article 19. Mehmet Ali Aslan (Batman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0243par0125	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0242par0126	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0244par0127	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0242par0128	Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0245par0131	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the words of your fellow MPs, especially Naci Hajji Hodja, who is on this stand -- for good reason now -- especially between our people and our people, and religion, religion, religion, belonging are equal, free, respect for each other -- sound very well, and there is no doubt in this matter that we have no doubt about the good intentions of AKP Group and Naci Hodja. But the practice of the verb is not, unfortunately, in good faith, with good intentions from this platform. In particular, in the last few years, it is important to say that in the Middle East, especially during a period in which cult-axis conflicts are concentrated, there are serious reflections in our country, and through this dissolution, unfortunately, both on social media, television, and in newspapers -- let's call it "ster sectoral," a journalist, a writer, a television programmer -- making serious attacks on religion and beliefs outside themselves, or setting the stage for attacks. Look, I'll give you a few examples. Recently, ten or fifteen days ago, when the state's television TRT 1st and a so-called professor were discussing Iran's role in Middle Eastern politics in an open debate programme, this country attacked the faith of our citizens with disrespect, indiscriminately, as if there were no citizens of Jaferi and Shia, as if there were a half a million citizens of the Middle East, as if all evil conflicts were at the root of all Middle East. Again, the defendant, Sevki Yilmaz, who was convicted later in a television programme, has made it clear that Peoples' Democratic Party MP and his supporters were killed by MSI on charges of law enforcement, irresponsibility, law enforcement and anti-corruption propaganda. Without hesitation, Sevki Yilmaz has made it clear that the death threat must be taken from all HDP MPs to his ally. Which our fellow jurists know very well is a crime that requires a death-threatening investigation, but unfortunately, the issue in Turkey is that when there are others who have been cross-examined, such as the Shias, Kurds, the Alevis, non-political authorities or other political authorities, the republic's prosecutors hear nothing, they don't start an investigation. Look, a citizen of ours has been brought in from Cyprus recently. He's guilty, the courts will decide, but he's being lynched by a number of continents on the stairs that we, you, and any other citizen can't get into. Dear friends, we can't make leniency come from this bench. In practice, in life, in social life, we have to do this, which is a priority for the political party, the government. So I'm saying that the cop's leniency, the fact that lynchings took place in the detention phases before the arrests of some people, would split the population, but in the first place, I'm saying that it was the actions that caused the greatest damage to political power. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0246par0140	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of service groups and times with service groups shall be replaced in the second joke of Article 19, which shall be added after the 15th amendment of Law Bill 446, which is currently in session. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0247par0147	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0246par0148	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0248par0149	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0246par0150	İbrahim Ayhan, MP of Şanlıurfa who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0249par0153	Mr. President, dear friends, of course there's so much to talk about, there's so much to say, it's something we all agree that we've been through a very difficult time, a very difficult time. Thus, in approaches to how to overcome these heavy times, it is also a reality that we have very serious deep thoughts and differences of opinion. Society is being polarized to the extent that society has been polarized, the way it shocks, the way it's tried to sustain the current social and social life in Turkey. We've always said it, but it's still useful to repeat that if the July 15 coup attempt had happened, whatever would have happened to the people in Turkey is happening to us from July 15th to today. Democracy, freedom and law are completely suspended and frozen. So we have to experience a coup process step by step, by slow motion picture, and we're actually experiencing it. This is not something that happens to us or 79 million people in Turkey. We must strive and strive to live together with democracy, freedom, peace and brotherhood, a culture of tolerance. What needs to be done is to remove the obstacles. Otherwise, it's not about applying to apps that mess up all the values, destroy all the values. I want to share an anecdote from history with you because it's exactly what we're going through. Ataturk had film screenings in Dolmabahçe every week during the days of Istanbul. At that time, the number of cinemas in Istanbul was very small, especially foreign films, and it was very difficult to reach. For him, these cinema displays are being performed with great interest, and these sessions are being held by the prominent people of Istanbul. On a day like this, Ataturk Neyzen also invites Tofiq to a film screening. Neyzen Tofik, like other participants, is going to the movie theater where the film will be shown. The movie that was shown that day was a pirate movie. Back then, there were foreign films about bandits, cowboys, adventures. There's a pirate movie on that day. In this pirate movie, the Virgo fights all the pirates throughout the film and kills the pirates one by one. Toward the end of the film, the main girl, the woman, is kidnapped by pirates, and the main man we call the primary man, fights these pirates at the end of the film and saves her from pirates. Finally, he goes down to the beach, gives her a picture of love alone, and the movie ends. As soon as the film was over, there was a great flood of applause in the hall, and the lights were on, and Neyzen Tevfik was crying. He draws the attention of Ataturk, Pasha, and goes to him. Why do you cry, Neyzen, when everyone rejoices? (Pasham, who will save that girl from the Virgo's hand?) I'm crying to him. He calls it. Now, how are we going to get rid of the tyranny, the impact of this political power, the unlawfulness he's committed?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0250par0158	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Ayhan, if you're going to perform from the film. Here you go. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0249par0160	So what we're dealing with is a part of society -- which is heavy -- is crying, and a part of it doesn't realize why it's actually happy, why it's happy. This is just the traumatic situation in which society is shocked and shocked, and that needs to be overcome, and that's what we all need. I wanted to share with you an anecdote like this in order to express it and draw attention to it. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0251par0165	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Members of parliament, we continue to discuss the current articles of the number of lines text so as not to cause any confusion. During the writing of the law, the matter numbers will be identified as presidents. There are three motions on the 16th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 16 of the Law shall be changed in the following way by the Law and Law Act 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Desire Erdem Deniz Depboylu "The amount of state contribution, which has been paid early due to the fact that the share of the share has been transferred to the company's accounts on a date prior to the transfer of the company's account, is calculated for the amount of delay in the amount of increase in Article 5183, on the basis of Article 51 of the law, which should be paid by the Council of Ministers." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 16th Amendment to the 446th Amendment in accordance with Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Act, and to the amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Çam The following joke has been added to Article 1 in Article 1 of the Independent Pension Savings and Investment System Law, dated 16-28/3/2001 and 4632. "The state's contribution, which has been paid early due to the fact that the share of the share has been transferred to the company's accounts on a date prior to the transfer of the account, is calculated by the delay rate set by the pension centre on Article 5183 on the basis of the delay increase of the state's contribution due to the fact that it was paid by the Undersecretary. The calculated price should be paid by the company's tax office and the company's tax office, as well as the pension protection centre on the charge of the amount of tardiness imposed on Article 6183 on Article 51 from the time the company should pay for its contribution as Undersecretary of State. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 16 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Berdan Özturk Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0252par0195	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0251par0196	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0253par0197	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0251par0198	Erol Dora wants to talk about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0254par0201	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 16th Amendment to the Law on Retirement Ark 446 rows and some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in a vicious attack on Izmir, and an immediate cure to the wounded, and my condolences to their relatives. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are concerned with the 16th article of the bill, Article 6740, which has been passed by AKP votes in parliament in the past months. Although the individual pension system has been presented by the ruling party as an example of European countries by creating a positive perception for citizens, it is a new and major step towards dissolving the social security system largely. Precious lawmakers, as a result of a turbulent process of a deep political and economic crisis in Turkey, have been defeated by the high interest of labour and labour capital, which has been marketed for 14 years by the ruling AKP in 2002. The individual pension system, which is mandatory by the government, is one of the key consequences of this situation. The ruling party, who ignores the principle of social state for the purpose of the creation of alms culture and a targetful society, forces employees to participate in private pension systems, even if they are forced to make mandatory cuts, even from the very low wages they earn on their own. The government, which does not hesitate to make new cuts even from the employee's minimum wage, includes a significant amount of economics from the public's common budget, the treasury, in order to sustain private companies that run the individual pension system. Dear lawmakers, a state-sponsored pension is the financing of private insurance from the state sac. However, a significant portion of the government's tax revenues are already provided from paid employees. So the government will obviously support private financial capital with the money they get from the workers. It will not be satisfied with the AKP's projects and the financial resources, which have been transferred to the major capital areas, the concessions, will be provided with these cuts from workers and workers. Mr. President, good lawmakers should not be allowed to eat capital with taxes paid by employees, money cut from employees. Accepting this means opening the way for the rich to take from the poor. That means more poverty, more trauma. It is never the solution to hand-hold their pockets in an atmosphere of economic crisis, where they are facing the risk of becoming unemployed at any time, underprivileged by scarce means, in forms of work safety, without job security, in order to save workers who are able to survive in debt. Dear lawmakers, if the country wants to increase austerity rates, the solution is to increase workers' income. You don't save by force. The simplest and most reasonable way to help workers save money is by raising wages, by raising wages. If there is to be a savings, there is justice in the tax; there is less taxes than there is a lot of winners, and there is less taxes. In the name of tax peace, large capitals are not granted billions of dollars of tax forgiveness and public revenues are increased. Dear lawmakers, it is known that the mandatory individual pension system is very open to abuse. Therefore, by sticking to the principle of the social state, the existing practices of the individual pension system must be abandoned immediately, and workers, workers, all workers, should not be sacrificed to such systems in order to promote capital, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0255par0210	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 16th Amendment to the 446th Amendment in accordance with Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Act, and to the amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures. With all due respect. The following joke has been added to Article 1 in Article 1 of the Independent Pension Savings and Investment System Law, dated 16-28/3/2001 and 4632. "The state's contribution, which has been paid early due to the fact that the share of the share has been transferred to the company's accounts on a date prior to the transfer of the account, is calculated by the delay rate set by the pension centre on Article 5183 on the basis of the delay increase of the state's contribution due to the fact that it was paid by the Undersecretary. The calculated price should be paid by the company's tax office and the company's tax office, as well as the pension protection centre on the charge of the amount of tardiness imposed on Article 6183 on Article 51 from the time the company should pay for its contribution as Undersecretary of State. Bihlun Tamayligil (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0256par0220	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0255par0221	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0257par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0255par0223	Wants to talk about the motion, Aytuğ Ater, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0258par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 446 Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Act and on our proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures under the 16th Amendment of the Bill of Law. While Turkey is a pool of blood, I must ask for the presidency. I salute the lawmakers who don't say. Dear friends, how many more have to die to understand that Turkey's urgent problem is not the presidency? How many more terrorist actions do Turkey need? Have you not come to your senses about this last hand we had in Izmir? When will you realize that Turkey's primary problem is not the presidency? Dear friends, with this clause, you admit that one of Turkey's most important issues is not the presidency, but the economy. How? You're saying we need the individual pension system. So you're saying there's no saving in Turkey. We can't invest enough because it's not being saved, so we need money. It's called the individual pension system. You say, "The translation of this means that the economy has sunk in Turkey." Look, why did the mandatory pension insurance come up? Our citizens, as you call them, have a low savings rate, so citizens can't save money, and Turkey can't invest. The solution is that your solution is mandatory savings for the minimum wage worker, subcontractor and officer. Well, for God's sake, don't you ask the question, why can't this citizen save money? Shouldn't people want to save the future in a country like Turkey? So there was money and people didn't save money, for God's sake? First, one problem: Why can't the people save money? Because the people are hungry, and because they're not satisfied, they can't save money. Now that you're up, save your money, I'll invest your savings. For God's sake, I'm going to invest in this kind of investment, save, build a fund like this. When it's said, blood jumps into our brains. You know why he jumps? Because we immediately think of the unemployment fund. You know when you started a fund called the unemployment fund, where you said you'd cut off money from working people and help the unemployed, take out unemployment, because of the lies you've told, unfortunately, the trust of the citizen, all governments and political institutions is almost gone. Because you used the money you received from the unemployment fund in political investment, and you bribed some people for three or four months, I'm telling you. When the budget was short, you returned using the unemployment fund. At last, you handed this money over to the Entity Fund. Now what do we think of when we say, "I'm going to create a fon, I'm going to create an individual pension fund?" We're reminded of these irregularities. So you're going to squander the pension fund just like you squandered the unemployment fund. Now, let's get a little more technical. If what you're saying is true, I mean, if saving is really low in Turkey, as the Statistics Agency of Turkey says, if saving is only 14 percent, you might be right about it. But Turkey's Statistical Association moved a pen, and, hey, the savings rate is 24.8%. If you can't save Turkey, let's bring an individual pension system. Now the TİK tells you: "I've miscalculated, I've found a better way to use Europe, and it turns out our savings rate is 24.8 percent." So we're actually saving as much as Germany, and we don't know it. Either you get TÜİK to lie or TİK is telling the truth, you can't even invest in a country that saves so much. Dear friends, let me ask you clearly, where are you going to send this money to, who are you going to send it to? That's the whole point. Good evening.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0259par0234	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0260par0236	Mr. President, I demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0259par0237	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... Since there's no consensus on the Presidential Court, I'll determine whether there's enough to decide by voting with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 16 of the Law shall be changed in the following way by the Law and Law Act 446. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends The state's contribution, which has been paid early due to the fact that the share of the share has been transferred to the company's accounts on a date prior to the fact that the state's contribution has been calculated, is calculated by the amount of delay in order to be paid by the pension centre in Article 5183 on the basis of the delay increase in Article 51 of the law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0261par0249	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0259par0250	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0262par0251	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0259par0252	Mustafa Kalaycı wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0263par0255	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the motion we made regarding Article 16 of the Law Bill 446 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. The clause is organised to determine the financial authority for state contributions due to early payment under the individual pension system. Regarding the individual pension system, a new arrangement was made last year that included a business-based pension plan and envisioned significant state contributions. The automatic-accessed individual pension system is now in effect with the new year. An estimated 2.2 million people have joined the system as of January 1st, where the number of employees is 1,000 and more, and by 2019 employees will be gradually included in the system. Even though employees still have a mandatory and public social security system and a voluntary and state-sponsored individual pension system for those who want it, it is now envisioned automatic participation in employees under the age of 45. The employee has been given the right to give up for two months. It is important to provide additional income for employees in the future, to maintain their standard of living, and to join the system in overstepping the austerity of savings. However, employees can't make the end of the month on their monthly wages. No hands, no palms. So, how are they going to get a cut for the individual pension system? Savings are good, of course, good, but not forced beauty. Monthly and wage is the only source of income for millions today. Most employees are already underpaid. Public employees don't get along, private sector employees don't get along, minimum wage, subcontractors don't get along. How can they live on the money they get? Mr. Finance Minister, how much salary increase did you give the employees that you would force into the individual pension system and cut him out of his salary? How are you going to cut 53 liras of the net minimum wage you've only raised 103 liras? The workers are in debt due to severe income shortages. Employees are able to make a living on loans, credit cards, consumer loans. According to the latest Turkish Union's September 2016 consumer loans report, 64.1 per cent of the consumer loans used in our country are being used and 66.7 per cent of consumer loans are being used by paid employees. Those who are in debt because of lack of income must have a sense of responsibility to those who are in debt, running from a bank to a bank, trying to close consumer credit and credit card debt with another bank's card or credit. The 14-year execution of the AKP (AKP) has finished the middle class in our country and has migrated from the middle to the middle. The AKP's government has made our narrow and fixed-income people in need of good vegetable fruit between market wastes. The government must make arrangements to reduce the tax burden of employees before they can force bonuses from employees, bring new loads to employees. The workers are burdened with injustice and heavy tax. Employees' monthlys are reduced from month to month due to tax tariffs. Even minimum wage tax rates are rising. First of all, your employees need to be reduced tax loads, but what the hell. In addition to reducing it, the government has tried various ways to obtain more taxes from employees, small tradesmen, small-income people. The government is relentlessly taxing the income tax, which should increase by the rate of re-valuement, by increasing or increasing the rates of tariffs further. The government is interested in cutting off the business, the farmers, the workers' income, even the minimum wage, and transferring money to the bosses. As a matter of fact, the rate of revaluement for 2017 was 3.83 per cent, while the first slice of income tax was increased by 3.17 per cent, while other income slices remained the same. Therefore, employees have to pay more taxes. This application must be corrected. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0264par0263	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark No. 446, we propose and recommend that the amendment of certain Laws and Laws be changed into the non-five-year-old of the 17th Amendment. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Sure Haluk Ayhan Deniz Depboylu Desire Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 17th Amendment to the Law of the Law and Law by the Law on Retirement Ark Act 446 of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session. With all due respect. Sibel Özdemir Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip Carabinieri Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakrözer The first sentence of Article 17-4632 of Article No. 17-4632 of the Act No. 17-4632 of the First Amendment (a) and (c) of those who began to work under Article 29/5/2009 and were under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901 and under Article 20/5/2006 of Social Insurance Act 5/2006; those who were not established under Article 20/06; those who were under Article 20/5/2006 of the Social Insurance Act; those who were not under Article 506; those who had not completed their work under Article 20/6; those who were appointed under the same agreement as employees of Social Insurance Security Insurance and under the first article 20/7/1964; those who had been appointed under the same agreement, and those who had assumed that they had taken an interimstitution agreement with the first article (a) and those who had been under the same agreement on the same order, and other articles of the same clauses. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of the Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0265par0293	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0264par0294	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0266par0295	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0264par0296	The right to comment on the motion will be used by Ağrı MP Berdan Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0267par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 17th article of the package bill 446 rows. I salute the General Assembly. The regulations made in these articles are restructuring the state contribution paid for those who are involved in the individual pension and investment system Act 4632. Although the individual pension system is presented by the ruling party as an example of European countries, it is a new step towards liquidating the social security system, although it is presented with a positive perception of citizens. Those who are behind the government's heated defence of the individual pension system are clearly expressing its intentions. The government claims that they are fully concerned about us, and I will sort them out in terms of the matter: in Turkey, people do not reduce their spending according to other countries. So they don't save enough money, so they don't save enough for the capital. So since you haven't saved enough as our government, I'm going to force you to save money. And as the only way to force it to save money, I will activate the individual pension system. I'm going to automatically engage with this system that I'm going to activate. Everyone who works at a job, the worker, the officer, the contractor, will be included in the pension agreement as soon as they start working, so I will use the government's difficult and pressure. All under 45 employees will automatically be included in the individual pension agreement. 3 per cent of the primary earnings of employees will be cut for BES. If the employee wishes, he will be able to withdraw within two months of his notice. When you exercise your right to refuse, the amount that has been cut will be returned to you within ten days. According to the government, both domestic savings will increase and employees will maintain the level of well-being they have when they are working during retirement, thanks to BES. Well, is that really the case? I'll give you two examples from the past. When we look at these samples, it's clear that's not the color of the work. Mr. President, in our country, we're going to give some of what the workers have earned, against their will, by law, by the promise of cheap housing. We've lived with the Autonomous Government after the coup of September 12th, you know. The Law has been issued on December 11, 1986, about Officers and Workers No. 3320 and how to build housing for their pensioners. The law was propagandad by the government with the promise that we would make homeowners of employees. The name of the pensioner's seizure of the workers' money has been referred to as a housing benefit, and this has been referred to as a relief to the public. In short, the cutbacks, referred to as the housing aid, lasted nine years until 1995. Nine years later, if you say what happened to the money in the fund, all the money was melted. For the employees, as expected, the result was a complete failure. In fact, the main goal was to fund the capital, and that's why they've already done it.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0268par0306	They've all been returned.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0267par0307	Another example of coercion of workers' incomes under the name "source transfer" was the Advocacy of Employees of March 9, 1988, and the Savings of 3417, and the Evaluation of these Savings. Since my time wasn't enough, the money was collected, promises were made, but none of those promises were fulfilled, the money was squandered. I mean, what we're trying to say here is that the capital-loving powers never take advantage of our earnings, our money, they don't back down. That's all there is to it. The purpose of this bill is to exploit the laborer, the worker, the officer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0269par0310	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0270par0312	Mr. President, we demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0269par0313	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 17th Amendment to the Law of the Law and Law by the Law on Retirement Ark Act 446 of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session. Sibel Özdemir (Istanbul) and his friends The first sentence of Article 17-4632 of Article No. 17-4632 of the Act No. 17-4632 of the First Amendment (a) and (c) of those who began to work under Article 29/5/2009 and were under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901 and under Article 20/5/2006 of Social Insurance Act 5/2006; those who were not established under Article 20/06; those who were under Article 20/5/2006 of the Social Insurance Act; those who were not under Article 506; those who had not completed their work under Article 20/6; those who were appointed under the same agreement as employees of Social Insurance Security Insurance and under the first article 20/7/1964; those who had been appointed under the same agreement, and those who had assumed that they had taken an interimstitution agreement with the first article (a) and those who had been under the same agreement on the same order, and other articles of the same clauses. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0271par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0269par0322	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0272par0323	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0269par0324	He wants to talk about the motion. He is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0273par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 17 of the underlying Law Bill 446 rows. And I, first of all, condemn the traitorous terrorist attack in Izmir. I salute the Grand Assembly. Dear lawmakers, before I enter into my views on the matter, I would like to share my views on the process of bringing this bag of legislation to the General Assembly. This bill began with an arrangement on the pension bonus, and became a bag of laws on customs, smuggling, Credit Guarantee Fund, bounced checks, international ship registrations, Central Bank and Parapolitic Board meetings, and 23 separate tasks, such as additional staff allocations to Recep Tayyip Erdogan University. We witnessed the process of bringing the bill to the General Assembly without discussing it, without discussing it, without discussing it in the other fellowship commissions outside the Plan and Budget Commission. As the Republican People's Party members of the Plan and Budget Commission emphasised, especially as our Minister of the Republic has stated, the quality of legislation and legislation with the bag of law has been severely undermined. The technical and customs of internal regulations and commissions have been violated, and this bill, which has been deprived of technical debate in a commission and in the relevant commissions alone, has not been taken into account, nor have the opinions, proposals and contributions of opposition and other relevant commissions been taken into consideration, so there has been an actual situation in the Parliament's work. Dear lawmakers, the bag bill contains regulations concerning the Individual Retirement System and the Retirement Presence in Articles 16 and 17. The income level, the living standards, the fact that there's a way of saving money from those who have fallen from the welfare level, is that even this government itself has failed to manage the economy well and has failed to create resources. HOW can an employee save $1.404 for a family of four in 2016, in an environment where they set the poverty limit at $1,457? So the only way to increase our savings rate is the Individual Retirement System? Will this practice, with cuts on salaries, be the answer to the state's savings deficit? In addition, this system will undermine the credibility of this system by forcing competitive competitiveness to overcome competition, rather than by providing the infrastructure of the state's pension system to create a competitive market. Furthermore, the transformation of the voluntary individual pension system into an automatic accession system should be very vague and controversial as to where the additional funds will go. Again, also, for those who enter the system, their contribution will be transferred to standard funds if there is no risk return option within a year. The government will use the contribution of a citizen who is unaware of such a portfolio preference without the citizen's knowledge, and, again, you know, it will pass on to projects we know about. Yes, valuable lawmakers, the most fundamental feature of the current government is illegal practices and consciously created situations with a majority understanding. Then we see laws, even the Constitution, strive to adapt to these illegal verbs. Dear lawmakers, with the economic and social chaos ignored, the society's expectations and demands have long been on the country's agenda, and with a proposal for a constitutional amendment coming next week, a conscious and systematic regime change is being laid out, the stones of the one man dictatorship are being laid out. In this period of power, the effectiveness and powers of the legislative body, which has already lost its credibility and dignity, are being handed over to one person, and the judicial institution, whose credibility, dignity and independence have already been discussed, is being handed over to one person; the democratic regime, the traditional parliamentary system, is being completely separated from our experience and the stones of an authoritarian regime are laid down, but most importantly, balance; the only man who has been handed over all the power of the Constitution, irresponsible, must be prepared and be given the risk of providing the ability to change everything, especially the whole of the Constitution. I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0274par0337	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0275par0341	We demand roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0274par0342	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Bacheloroğlu, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Çaylak, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Emir, Mr. Arik, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Çakırözer, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Nefi Kara, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Cleanel. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Retirement Ark No. 446, we propose and recommend that the amendment of certain Laws and Laws be changed into the non-five-year-old of the 17th Amendment. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0276par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0274par0357	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0277par0358	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0274par0359	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0278par0362	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As a result, the Constitutional Court dismissed it by violating the right to social law state, equality and social security, as a result of which the Constitutional Court's decision was adopted in the General Assembly yesterday, as it was adopted in the Plan and Budget Commission, for those who have retired before 7/1/2005. Dear lawmakers, this arrangement is not fit for rights and justice. There's no fault or fault in our pensioner if he doesn't pay a pension to those who serve for more than 30 years. Our pension is not paid unfairly, a reasonable payment should be made to compensate for the rights taken from him according to judicial decisions, but so far payments have been made with pennies and two liras. Our pensioner doesn't deserve this. Our pensioner's expectations were to be paid according to the purchase power of his retirement date. Unfortunately, despite our persistent insistence, our motions to the Board of Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs have not been approved before, in the Plan and Budget Commission, in the General Assembly. I repeat: our pension has been wronged, our pension has been seen for $500 a year, $1,000 a year. Just as it was wrongly done by paying 50 cents, 100 cents, 150 cents to our pensioner, the same mistake was made yesterday's 1st article. After the bill becomes law, you can see the 50 euros you pay each year as a release from the weirdness of pennies, the ridiculousness of pennies. Even if you see it, our pensioner is aware of everything. Today, $50 is only 1 kilogram of honey. You can't repay a pensioner by stealing a kilo of honey into his mouth, you can pay a pensioner by paying him according to his ability to buy it when he retires. See, the bill was also discussed in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission in June 2016. According to the Constitutional Court's ruling, there will be no payment, and similar statements were used in the Plan and Budget Commission. Although we have insisted on both commissions that the grounds of the Constitutional Court's refusal to update the decision are not grounds for legal grounds, and that if the motion is adopted, there will be legal grounds for the adoption of the motion, we have not been able to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, $50 per year has been accepted to get rid of the ridiculousness of pennies. What you said yesterday clearly contradicts what you did today. Mr. Secretary, I thought you said there was no update. What happened to the Supreme Court's decision that it can't be updated? Where's the Supreme Court decision? When it comes to your job, you'll update it, and when it doesn't, you'll say no updates. $50 is an open update. The will at $50 would also make a thousand dollars, and he'd make $3,000. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, please explain what the measurement is for $50. We want to know clearly if it's the money for the application, whether it's the money for the petition. Dear lawmakers, if the pensioner is paid 400 million dollars in two years -- most of the bonuses are retired recently, and those who receive high-retired bonuses, who will apply within a year will be paid $400,500 million, tops, and that will be paid in two installments. Let's make it 4 in installments, 5 in installments, but let's not be unfair. Dear lawmakers, our pensioner is aware of everything. In the process, many of our pensioners have spoken and complained on the telephone and personally. I'd like to present here a complaint and a request from a pensioner who called just two days ago. Our pensioner says in a nutshell: "We are the victors, but Syrian immigrants have not been able to make the necessary escape. We are martyring our children for these things. Many immigrants do business, do wrong. Despite all this trouble, we've spent 50 or 60 billion dollars on immigrants so far. Retirement is common for 1 in 30. Yesterday, they took us for a penny, and today they will deceive us with 50 TL. Is it right, justice, Islam, or humanity? The locals and nationals are being unfairly unfair. Dear lawmakers, the 1st article should be renegotiated when the road is near, consciences shouldn't be injured, justice of the state shouldn't be undermined, our pension shouldn't be victimized, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0279par0372	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446-trial law of the Republic of Turkey shall be changed to the 1 8th Amendment of the Article of the Law under some Law and Law. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Argin Erdem Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Deniz Depboylı Emin Haluk Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Perpetual Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Laws of the Republic of Turkey, which are currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip The Ancient Durmaz Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu The interim Article 2 of Law 18-4632 added that after the statement of "employees who have not reached the age of five years old," the statement added that "they are not forty-five years old when the Law is in effect from those who are participant of polls established under Article 506 of Law 20." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law Bill 446 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Berdan Özturk Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0280par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0279par0401	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0281par0402	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0279par0403	Mehmet Ali Aslan wants to talk about the motion, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Do you have another TEOG 1?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0282par0407	Hopefully, tomorrow we'll get some more good news from the TEOG 1st, and we'll be proud.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0279par0408	I hope so.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0282par0409	By the way, it's good of you to remind me. We celebrate all of our students, all of our children who take exams, and we wish them success. Of course, there are no doubt serious setbacks in test systems. Children, families, teachers and schools pay the bill for this. As a teacher, I'm afraid I've seen it through. We shouldn't rush our children or our students. It's a good thing we brought that up in that sense. In Article 18, it has been added by members of the BES Act 4632, who have not reached the age of forty-five years of age in accordance with Article 506, which was established under Article 20 of Law 506, as part of the Act. In the polls established as a room and association with non-45 employees, employees are automatically included in the individual pension system. This arrangement envisions automatic registration of workers to the individual pension system, as do other workers, by cutting their salaries. The minimum wage increase of power is evident in the implementation and arrangements in such a short period of time, when the subcontractors and their commitments to severance is a big hoax. The laborers, the workers, and the workers, will become poorer by force. While the so-called raise for minimum wage has been seen to be a big hoax, while many cuts have already been taken back in favour of employers, another cut will be made from minimum wage employees, which will go much higher in union, collectively contracting workplaces, and the poorness of workers, low-paying and minimum wage workers, in rooms, and in associations, will be increased. It's unacceptable for employees to feed on taxes, money from employees, capital from employees. It is not the solution to force the pockets of workers, public workers, and all other workers who can survive in debt to save money. As we principlely opposed the mandatory accession to BES (BES) in July, we predict that this provision will be removed from the draft text. Mr. Secretary isn't here, but the Deputy Minister is here. In fact, we would like you to discriminate positively about Batman, because the speed of urbanization is at the top of the highest, largest provinces. The Batmans are demanding an increase in the 250-bed hospital thought to be built because Batman has about 600,000 populations, including 800,900,000 people from the surrounding provinces and counties, who come for the disease, who come for health. Not right now, 250, even a thousand-bed hospital would be inadequate, even now. Thus, this hospital must have at least 2,000 beds. Again, in October, we told Minister of State, Mr. Numan Survivmiş, but he said, "I am instructing you immediately." Since many schools are found on Batman Airport road and Kozluk, traffic accidents occur there, many students are injured and die. Although we have ordered for the overpass to be built, or for the underpass to be built, I am instructing you immediately. Although it has been said, accidents have not yet been carried out, unfortunately the accidents continue. Again, the drowning of Hasankeyf will be a major blow to tourism and history and to civilization, and it will cause us to lose a history that cannot be undone. We demand that this be cancelled immediately from the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0283par0416	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Perpetual Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Laws of the Republic of Turkey, which are currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil (Istanbul) and his friends The interim Article 2 of Law 18-4632 added that after the statement of "employees who have not reached the age of five years old," the statement added that "they are not forty-five years old when the Law is in effect from those who are participant of polls established under Article 506 of Law 20." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0284par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0283par0426	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0285par0427	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0283par0428	It's Huseyin Yıldız, Aydın MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0286par0431	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I hate the treacherous terror attack that took place today in Izmir, and I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you have brought the individual pension law here. In Europe, the savings went up to 35 per cent -- 24 per cent -- but in Turkey, that's about 13 per cent. Why about 13 percent? The minimum wage in the country is 1,300 liras, and it's probably not a savings when 50 per cent of the tradesman closes before he does. Now, the government has paid $100, and they're trying to get their $50 back from the minimum wage immediately. Dear lawmakers, you want to invest in Turkey by making this individual pension mandatory in the employees here, but unfortunately, you can't invest in Turkey with your savings. In order to bring investment to Turkey, there must be a law state; there must be independent judiciary, democracy. The outside investor will look into it. Now, you're kidnapping the outside investors. In order to invest in Turkey now, you will invest in Turkey by cutting money from workers who receive 1,300 lira and 1,400 lira. That's what crows laugh about, dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, we talked here last semester. In tourism, Turkey's income dropped to 20 billion dollars last year when it was 30 or 35 billion -- there's no work here, there's no work abroad now -- in this period, you'll see, this number will drop to $10 billion, and you won't be able to cover this external deficit in the future. Dear MPs, I specifically ask the AKP MPs: Do you know that there's a Crazy Airport in Aydın, or do you not know that? In 1956, a philanthropist Mustafa Madman - God rest his soul - is donating 500 acres to the government to build a civilian airport here. In 1957, this airport opens, the planes leave, and in 1967, it closes in the revolution. In 2002, Prime Minister Abdullah Gul, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in 2007, in 2011, in 2015, when Davutoglu arrived at every Aydın, when they held a rally, they said: "We will open this airport immediately within six months. Now, this Mustafa Madman has a son, Uncle Sevki, 92 years old. In particular, he phoned today: I petitioned the Minister of Transport, the Prime Minister, the President. My father gave me this 500 acres when he was donating, so that he could go to civilian aviation, but unfortunately, these are the government that takes the Turkish Airways flight school and gives it to the Command of the Carabinieri fleet. There is no such thing as civilian aviation now. Now I ask you guys: Uncle Sevki is 92 years old, and he says: "God bless you for a long life, but here's one foot, one foot on the other." How will I answer to my father when I go there? You know, there are 30 major cities in Turkey, Aydın Province is one of them. Aydın is the only city with no airport in Turkey. One million, one hundred thousand people, dear friends, one million, one hundred thousand. There are 1.5 million populations of you when you put in the district of Müğla Yatan, Denizli Sarayköy, İzmir Selçuk from the surrounding provinces, but I had them look at the 2017 Transport Ministry programme; the entire population of Silverhouse and Bayburt is 229 thousand, where you build an airport, and here you can't extend the existing airport track. I specifically refer the government, the Prime Minister and the AKP to the people of Aydın. There are some reports that after Uncle Sevki, the last heir here, you want to give this place back to TOKI, and build it here. If there is such a thing, know that every Lightman will never give the grant to those who are given to Mustafa Madman, and I want you to know that. I hereby pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0287par0442	Thank you, Mr. Star. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0288par0444	Mr. President, may I tell you something about Crazy Airport?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0287par0445	You can't give the information from the bench, but I can promise you a minute according to Article 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0288par0449	Mr. President, thank you very much. As the AK PARTY of Mad Airport, our promise of election in these elections is a promise to our people in Aydın. Crazy Airport now appears to be an airport open to operate in the Ministry of Transport records. Only Crazy Airport has a problem with the extension of its runway, which is something that the Ministry of Transport and we -- three MPs -- are following, and it's something that our Prime Minister knows about. Since Crazy Airport is now an active airport, there is no other use of it -- TOKI et cetera -- for any other purpose, let me present it to the knowledge of both our Turkish people and Aydın people. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0289par0452	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0290par0453	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0289par0454	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0290par0455	I'd like to take a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0289par0456	I'll turn on your microphone according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0290par0459	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, my deputy says that, when we look at the Ministry of Transport, it works. I wonder how it works, since I was born, I never knew that plane was landing at that airport, there's no flight anywhere. I mean, it looks like there's not a plane landing there. How's that? Or are the planes coming and we can't see them? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0291par0462	Thank you, Mr. Star. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 446-trial law of the Republic of Turkey shall be changed to the 1 8th Amendment of the Article of the Law under some Law and Law. Ismail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0292par0471	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0291par0472	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0293par0473	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0291par0474	Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0294par0477	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party on Article 18 of Law Bill 446. First of all, I think these legislation that regulates involuntary inclusion in the individual pension system should be well analyzed. The period when citizens are forced to save is usually when there are wars that cross the borders of the country. Economic administrators know that mandatory practices actually create a lot of problems in the free economy atmosphere. It's a desirable development, of course, to increase the savings rate, but to force savings in a country with a large percentage of our population, like ourselves, is also to reduce the bread on the table. To put the economy back together, you're already telling our carbohydrate-based citizens to forget all about their protein. You're about to throw away the health of the Turkish nation to put the economy back together. You've already squeezed the Turkish nation's neck with bonuses, tuition, funding, and all kinds of taxes. Factories don't work for entrepreneurs, they officially work for the AKP government. Our people are planting four acres, and you're partnering half as the AKP government. A citizen will take a tank of gas, half the tank is mine. You are waiting for a citizen at the top of the pump. Give comfort to the people who live at ease, then encourage self-restraint. The citizen is trying to feed him with bread, pasta and tea in a house he can't heat, and you get up to this person and impose obligations such as excessive tax, individual pension system and general health insurance. You've just raised their contribution by 60 percent in health care. Is this justice, do you not hear, or do you not see these people at all? I'd like to address economic management: I hope you'll interpret our economy from Anatolia, not from cities like New York, London, Dubai and Paris, where international financial and economic meetings are held. I'm sure the caviar and steak foods in Manhattan are good, but please remember the eating tables. Reverend Turkish nation, we are sadly faced with an act of terror that burned our hearts in the first minutes of the new year, when we considered it a white leaf and had good hopes, and today is Izmir. As a Turkish nation, we curse the bitchy terror organizations that burn young people's dreams. We, as a nation, have the right to curse, but as the AKP government, you need to stop cursing and take preliminary action to protect our country. Our leader and our president, Mr. State Gardenian, has long explained how to fight terrorism. If you want to fight terrorism in a way worthy of the Turkish nation and with sincerity, listen up. See what our leader says: ▪ There can be no different results by doing the same things. In addition to classical measures and security policies, a full field press and pressure on terrorism should be put into place. A strategy that promotes responsibility for all national power elements should be introduced. Anti-terrorism politics, which is responsible for all the elements in our country, must be created. In addition, a diplomatic combat action plan must be formulated to cut off all support that the problem can receive from both the inside and the outside. The tactical, education and execution programme must be implemented in the fight against terrorism, which will train, equip, and govern security forces in line with new conditions and conditions. As a result, the solution to everything is proper assignments. Our goal should be education, education, and education again. I salute the great Turkish nation and finally declare to the world that you will never break the union and our union because the Turkish nation has never been destroyed, and neither will you. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit07spe0295par0484	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 18 is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit08spe0295par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on Article 19: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the "intermittent time" in Article 19 of the Law Bill shall be changed into "the remaining time" by the Law and Law Act 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Sea Depboy Emin Haluk Ayhan Desire Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose to change the 19th Amendment of the 19th Amendment to the Law of the Law and Laws under the Law and the Law Act of the Republic of Turkey, as follows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Çam Utku Çakırözer Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet "The following temporary clause has been added to Law 19-4632. "Despite the time between 3/1/2013 and the date when this clause is taken into effect, due to the fact that the contribution was taken into account by the company's account on a date prior to the time before the transfer of its contribution to the company's accounts, the amount of state contributions paid early is calculated by the pension control centre on the basis of the delay increase in Article 51 of the Law on Article 51. The calculated price is reported to the tax office of the company and the company's tax office in order to ensure that the appropriate processing of the state's contribution should be paid by the company and by the pension protection centre in accordance with Article 6183, according to the number of tariffs specified in Article 51 by the company's Article 51 by the time the company should be paid. In the period between 1/1/2013 and the date when this clause is put into effect, the extradition process, which has been carried out during the period, is valid under the amount of government contributions paid early," he said. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0295par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of the Law Bill, 446 rows, which is being discussed, be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Berdan Özturk Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0296par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0295par0014	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0297par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0295par0016	Mizgin Irgat, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0298par0019	Mr. President, we continue to work late at this time of night. I salute you all again. Yeah, actually, every day of our lives, I told you yesterday, we live in a country where we don't know what kind of day we're gonna wake up to tomorrow. Unfortunately, while the instability inside, out, and out of bounds continues in this dimension, it's possible that the laws that have been passed in public have been debated by this hour. The social state is an important quality of countries that are governed or claimed by democracy. The social state is a concept that sees the need and legitimacy of the state to intervene in social and economic life in order to ensure social peace and social justice. The 1961 and 82 constitutions are a concept indiscriminate in the constitutions established by both military coups. However, the government's policies, which have succumbed to capital greed, ignore the principle of the social state, force employees to retire privately with their own efforts and include a significant amount in the system to keep the company running the system alive. It's not the answer to forcing workers who are able to live in debt to save their lives by forcing them to reach into their pockets. The cure is to increase their income. If there is to be savings, there must be more taxes than there are more winners and fewer winners. In the name of tax peace, you cannot make this system a proper system with a tax pardon to the capital sectors. This system is a system open to abuse. The current practices of the individual pension system must be abandoned immediately by adherence to the principle of the social state. Workers' rights should not be sacrificed to such systems under any circumstances. Dear MPs, the Deputy of Aydın before me -- speaking to me -- has once again expressed a wound that actually bleeds a lot in Bitlis, airports, roads, and violations of the law in Bitlis, the province in which I am a deputy. At this time, there is not a single project for two cities without airports in Tunceli and Bitlis. When we look at the cities that were planned to open the third airports, it will be clear that the AKP's power is the areas that are being pursued by its own capital environments. The Bitlis airport, which has been built, talked about and paid for publicisation in its time, has been where it has been cooked and presented in every election for years. Our people, who have to go to Van or Mush provinces, are facing great challenges. On the one hand the profits, the State of Emergency, the unjust arrests, and on the other hand the bill in Bitlis, which has no area in its own district, which has no economic infrastructure. When we look at the areas in which Bitlis and the State of Emergency have been declared, the system you claim to have been and removed has now been implemented and is in place in an entire unit of Turkey. Yes, valuable lawmakers, we all know that the law state, law enforcement, social law state, and many other articles in our constitutions and our laws, have no merit in life. We see the laws being turned into a hell of a bad appliance, an unfair, illegal, arbitrary system, living together. This law is basically a bill for the implementation of the projects that are intended to be opened to investors and Ranta, and the bill must be withdrawn immediately in accordance with our proposal. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0299par0028	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 19th amendment of the 19th Amendment to the Law of the Law and Laws under the Law of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet and her friends "The following temporary clause has been added to Law 19-4632. "Despite the time between 3/1/2013 and the date when this clause is taken into effect, due to the fact that the contribution was taken into account by the company's account on a date prior to the time before the transfer of its contribution to the company's accounts, the amount of state contributions paid early is calculated by the pension control centre on the basis of the delay increase in Article 51 of the Law on Article 51. The calculated price is reported to the tax office of the company and the company's tax office in order to ensure that the appropriate processing of the state's contribution should be paid by the company and by the pension protection centre in accordance with Article 6183, according to the number of tariffs specified in Article 51 by the company's Article 51 by the time the company should be paid. In the period between 1/1/2013 and the date when this clause is put into effect, the extradition process, which has been carried out during the period, is valid under the amount of government contributions paid early," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0300par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0299par0040	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0301par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0299par0042	It's Fatma Kaplan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0302par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 19 of Law Bill 446. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, I condemn today's suffering, terror, mercy from God to our martyrs, and immediate healing to our wounded. The 16th and 19th article redesigns the state contribution. The Individual Retirement System is one of the consequences of the failure of 14 years of work in the face of capital. This system is the liquidation of the social security system. However, what the worker needs is the right to health and social security with no money and quality. The fact that employees are forced to retire privately with their own hard work is strictly against the principle of the social state. Such a compulsion is nothing more than the feeding of insurance by the hands of the state. So it's about supporting financial capital with workers' money, and it's never acceptable. Instead of increasing the income of debt workers, forcing their pockets to reach out to them is not a solution, but a victim, creating new problems. If it is to be saved, public resources shouldn't be wasted, rather than bringing millions of dollars of tax forgiveness to supporters, there should be less taxes than more winners, so tax justice is essential. This isn't the place to wish for Congress, this is the place to solve these problems. Unfortunately, as we speak, our workers, farmers, pensioners, minimum wagers, citizens who actually spin the wheels of Turkey can't stop thinking about the black end of the month. For a family of four, the monthly cost of food is 1,432 lira. The total cost of other monthly expenses for clothing, transportation, education, housing, health care and so on is $4,665. In the past year, the total amount of expenses needed to live as a human family of four has increased by 153 liras in the last year. The government set the first six months of 2017 and increased 8 per cent. The minimum wage increase, which is called the government's first six months, has, unfortunately, melted before it reached the workers' pockets. When we think about the rise in dollars, the Minister of Labour and Social Security (AFB) increased the minimum wage by 8 per cent in the new year. Even though he said, 206 liras flew out of our people's pockets. Now you're telling the worker to save money by force. What's the minimum wage, what's the meat and what's the leg? When it comes to tax deficits, stop putting your hands in the workers' pockets. On one hand, economic straits, wild terror and wrong domestic and foreign policy, political decisions continue to drag the country into the unknown. Another day has been poisoned by our people, who only want to welcome their loved ones to the New Year at the amusement park on New Year's Eve. 36 people were killed in the attack at the amusement park in Istanbul. And who claimed responsibility for this attack? ISIS is the one whose hostility towards secular Turkey has been through the roof. Is the only thing against secular order in our country a terrorist organization? Of course not. You see, with days ahead of the New Year, the reaction of reaction by reactionary cults to the New Year's celebration has come to a single agenda. Inflatable Santa was first circumcised, then stabbed, then photographed with a gun to the head of Santa Claus in Aydın, and Merry Christmas Muslims hanging on the walls in Kopeli. The provocatory posters are still in our memory. However, if those who chased Santa had chased those who ate the rights, things would have been different at the point where we came in today. On one side is ISIS, which is called immaculate children. On the other side is those who don't want secular order in Turkey. On one side of the medallion, the ones who did anti- secularism acts, but didn't even conduct an investigation, on the other hand, were arrested for having cursed ISIS for calling for secularism. We believe that the arrests of young people who call for secularism are nothing more than a classic anti-controversial punishment of power. I wish you could track down live bombs, terrorist acts, terrorists, and terrorists and if you could catch them, until you followed the tweets, that many more acts of terrorism like the one in İzmir would not have happened in our country today. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0303par0057	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the "intermittent time" in Article 19 of the Law Bill shall be changed into "the remaining time" by the Law and Law Act 446. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0304par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0303par0065	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0305par0066	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0303par0067	İsmail Faruk Aksu has asked about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0306par0070	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Party of Actions on Article 19 of Law Bill 446. I salute you all. The item we're talking about predicts that the amount of contributions paid by the treasury to the insurance companies as part of the individual pension system will be exacerbated in the past, due to the calculation of state contributions to early state contributions. The individual pension system is considered a long-term savings system, as well as a social security system. However, there is no guarantee of a certain income in the system. In order to support the individual pension system, employees are given a contribution by the state, but support is not enough incentive to remain in the system. Systems based on the mandatory savings of employees have been implemented in our country, as it is known, but the desired results have not been achieved. Therefore, for results to be achieved, the overall economy must be as good as the quality and healthy functioning of the system. Today Turkey faces the lowest savings rates in its history. In other developing countries, the GDP rate of savings has increased by over 30 per cent, while our country has seen at 15 per cent. For 2017, the mid-term programme envisioned further austerity rates and aimed at 13.5 per cent. Of course, employees' savings depend on higher incomes and wages. Since savings is the part of the income that is not spent, there must be a remaining amount of income from the income of our citizens after meeting their monthly mandatory needs. However, the current fees show that this opportunity does not exist. As a matter of fact, the Turkish people are in debt, and our citizens are trying to maintain their daily lives by closing debt. In 2002, around 4.5 per cent of the household's debt reached 55 per cent today. More than half of every $100 income goes into debt, and it's not possible to save money. The main reason Turkey can't create a healthy investment and production order is, of course, this inadequacy in savings rates. A situation where savings can't be increased makes it mandatory to apply for external savings for investments. The situation, which will increase debt and the current deficit, will contribute to the welfare of citizens of another country, and will not be saved from the vicious cycle, which cannot be increased by economic, production and employment. Today, there is an economic picture of macroeconomic goals that have failed to meet, that Turkish lira has lost too much value, unemployment has risen to double digits, and there is a high rise in debt. The negative trend in the economy also leads to a distance from all long-term economic goals. Under the circumstances, the public's confidence in the economy and prospects for the future have also begun to wane. As a matter of fact, according to TÜİK data, the Economic Trust Index has recently taken a fall, and in December the index took place at 70.52. In the last four months, the consumer trust index has been incremental decline. The index has not been able to rise above the 70s recently, but has dropped to 68,93, and to 63,38 in December in the last November. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we have expressed in our party programme and election declaration that a social insurance system must be established in modern norms, in order to ensure the citizens' future. We also noted that it would be appropriate to consider the expansion of complementary pension systems, the implementation of mandatory or optional professional pension systems, as well as a new policy option for reducing the burden on the public, as well as for boosting people's pension savings. In order for these to happen, social insurance programmes must be enabled by managing an effective and autonomous structure in the actuarial balance. With these thoughts, I wish the bill to be good, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0307par0078	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 19 is accepted. There are three motions on the 20th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "19/7/2003" be changed to "19 July 2003" in Article 20 of the Law and Law Act. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Sea Depboy Emin Haluk Ayhan Desire Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "inference" in Article 20 of Law Bill 446 shall be changed to the form "in the frame." Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir Mahmut Toğrul Berdan Özturk İbrahim Ayhan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 20 of the Perimeter of the Law shall be changed in the following way, under the Law on the Law and Laws of the Republic of Turkey, which is currently in session 446 rows. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Tulip Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Çam The statement "31.12.2000" in Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law on the Evaluation of Unmovable Property of Treasures No. 4706, dated 20-29/6/2001 and was changed to "19/7/2003." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0308par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0307par0107	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0309par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0307par0109	Serkan Topal, Hatay MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0310par0112	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With this change, the victims of those who built a house, such as a workplace, are being removed from the treasure depository between 31/12/2000 and 19/7/2003, but -- the law in 2003 -- unfortunately, after that, the homes on the treasury land were not recovered. Many victims, including Hatay, are expected to work with you on the removal of these victims. Dear friends, I pray for the mercy of God to our citizens who died today in the terrorist incident in Izmir, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. Unfortunately, for the last year, our soldiers, our police, our citizens of all ages, our people have been being massacred. Our faith that we'll see our loved ones in the morning and that we'll see them safely in the evening is also being slaughtered. Government officials, unfortunately, are content with just a message of reproach. Again, several days earlier, the shooters of the pool media had established a perception management that had been established as an infrastructure by the Muslim Christmas celebration. The Dianets' annual celebration was illegitimate. He made a statement: Don't celebrate Christmas this time. It's obvious who's handing out these memos, where they're delivering them, what they're trying to do. Have any of them been investigated? No. Did all these new year's provocations happen right in front of us? Okay. There's an act of terrorism, the government says to the people, let's unite against terror, let's fight. The economic policy is failing, Turkish lira is losing value, the government is calling people to cash in dollars. The coup attempt is taking place; let's call the people to the street and stop the fighters. Yeah, well, let's be that, but if the public is going to face coup attempts, terrorism, poverty, economic crisis every time, what has 14 years of power done, what does it do? The government's purpose is to protect its citizens, to ensure its safety, right, dear friends? Again, unfortunately there have been triggers who have committed a public crime recently when the provisions of Article 216 of the Turkish Penal Code were evident. Someone appears in a television program, and publicly provokes a group of people, social class, race, religion, sectarian or region-wise, to hatred and hostility against another, and in front of the Republican prosecutors. The city of peace and brotherhood, Hatay, wants to be confused by a lunatic, dear friends. My Mayor of Samandag has been declared a member of the Hatay Liberation Organization and has been targeted, sending references to the massacres we remember from our recent history, and the insurance of this country's peace and democracy is unfortunately targeted; prosecutors are watching, our ministers are just looking; trolls are locking, and someone is clapping. I'm inviting the prosecutors on this, and I'm about to present them to Mr. Court. Like Alevis in Hatay, Adana, Mersin, Alevis in all Turkey, they are loyal people who love their homeland, their nation, their flag, their secular, democratic Republic of Turkey. Those who slander them, those who slander them, must first look in the mirror and know their place. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, I know you're against people who seek this trial, corruption and discrimination. However, social media unconsciousness maintains the temperature of public destruction warnings, while more than a number of kings should study provocative social media messages and television programmes. To connect our brothers to radical terrorist organizations who embezzled their brothers in Hatay, the Republic and homeland-friendly Hatay, lays the groundwork for the separations that are most likely to be created in society. I'd like to invite Mr. Home Secretary and the Minister of Justice to step in and hand over some documents to Mr. Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0311par0124	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Yes, I'll take that right away; I'll put your motion to a vote. Well, give it to your friends. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "inference" in Article 20 of Law Bill 446 shall be changed to the form "in the frame." İbrahim Ayhan (Shanlıurfa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0312par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0311par0133	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0313par0134	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0311par0135	İbrahim Ayhan, MP of Şanlıurfa who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0314par0138	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, dear friends, before we fall again at this time of night, I'd like to share with you, in our own way, in a more powerful, more effective way, in a very brief way, that we can get through the process that we've been through. Dear friends, human history is the history of man's struggle with himself and nature. Human history is the history of a struggle that can sustain man against nature, against nature, and sustain his own social life. The history of this struggle, without a doubt, has organized itself in the form of various social systems of every age and time, and with these social systems, humanity has tried to sustain itself, to make itself exist. What's important here is how people live, what they call life. Now, if we are facing challenges, if we are facing crises, we must first ask ourselves the question that the first person in human history asked ourselves, how do we want to live? We have to ask ourselves the question strongly. How do we want to live? If we answer the question well, I believe that we can overcome the crises and chaos that we have experienced. So we say the same thing every time, even though we're in different political parties, that we're trying and trying to live a democratic, liberal and egalitarian life. Even though we say the same things, in this current philosophy of life, unfortunately, we can't become partners and we can't take steps to make this partnership work, and we're having trouble setting up the system. So, what we need to do is put this in a position where we're going to cut everyone down, which is going to involve everyone in the system. Look, there's been an international survey of the system, and a very interesting conclusion has come up as a result of the study of the system. In the study of the system, the causes of human mistakes have been investigated, and they've been questioned and asked to reveal the reasons for it. The reason is that the bottom line of problems is 90 percent of the system, and 10 percent of the problem is human. Thus, the human factor is occupying a ten percent area within the margin of error. The system's share in error is 90 percent. I believe that if we set up our system through democratic norms, there won't be any problems. A system of self-restraint, self-restraint, self-realism, self-realism, self-determination, beliefs, will not bring prosperity and peace. So that's the root cause of the crisis and the chaos, and that's its basic life. As I said in my other speech, if we don't want our people to cry, if we don't want our people to cry, we need to build our system with democratic norms and enter into strengthening efforts and efforts to strengthen democratic norms. Other than that, we don't have any choice. If we do this, I believe we will all have established a better Turkey, a more habitable Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0315par0145	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "19/7/2003" be changed to "19 July 2003" in Article 20 of the Law and Law Act. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0316par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0315par0153	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0317par0154	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0318par0155	Motive...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0315par0156	I'm reading the reason: Matter is intended to be clear and understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. There are four motions on the 21st article, three of which are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 21st Amendment to the 446 Sequential Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law and to the amendment to some Laws and Laws. İlknur Eütöz Farrafıl Barrack Mehmet Metiner Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Osman love Bak Ramadan Can "A further Article 4 of the Law No. 21-4706 has been changed as follows. Turkey's Kızılay Association, Turkey's Yeşelay Foundation and Turkey's Yeşülaceze Foundation, Darülaceze Presidency, Darüşşafaka Society and Turkish Air Agency have the necessary property to be used in accordance with its objectives, the Association of Turkey's Kızılay Association, the Association of Turkey's Kızılay Association, the Association of Turkey's Yeşelay Foundation and its right to free altitude for forty-nine years, or its spending on the 63th Article of the Law may be sold directly over half the value. On top of the government's jurisdiction and savings, they can be allowed to use it for free. You don't get a cut on these. The property register of the rights of altitudes established or sold will not be used against its purpose. In favour of those whose tax exemptions are recognised by the Council of Ministers and those who have education and housing activities for students of the public benefit, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Education may be sold directly over half of the primary value of the Law 492, for which property may be used in accordance with its institutional purposes, or for the removals of property to the Treasury or public institution and its institutions. On top of the government's jurisdiction and savings, they can be allowed to use it for free. You don't get a cut on these. This way, all of the revenues obtained by the foundations and associations, which have been sold or allowed to use the right of altitude, are used to pay for the production, maintenance, maintenance, operating and so on. The property register of the rights of altitudes established or sold will not be used against its purpose." Now that three motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of the Law Bill, 446 rows, which is being discussed, be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Osman Baydemir The signatures of the other motion are: Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Moses Pine Zechariah Aziel Tulip The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Deniz Depboy Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0319par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0315par0196	Government?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0320par0197	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0315par0198	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have asked for three proposals of the same nature. Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0321par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, in fact, have voiced the whole day before me that a bill that had not been passed through the entire legislative commission was an expression of insensitivity to law enforcement. If you'll excuse me, I won't go into that much, but when we look at the entire bill, the bill is presented as a sort of good news for the community, as a good news for the community. I've said before, the AKP government has a very important talent: it has a real talent for making a dust pink painting look black or to make a black painting look black. It is a bill of law, but in particular the 21st and 22nd articles are a provision of good news. And in this respect, first of all, the area where he specializes in the bill is the treasure land, which is essentially the right of an undamaged orphan. It is the law that enjoins justice on an orphan who has not yet been satisfied. Now, when we look inside the text, we don't object to any of the foundations or other organizations mentioned, but in the second paragraph, the Council of Ministers refers to a statement from the foundations that have tax exemptions and education and housing services for students. All the foundations or organizations mentioned above have been used as a means of concealing the names of the hidden foundations in this arrangement. And with that respect, I ask the Minister, how many foundations do you have that have potential? How many foundations are there that will benefit after the law passes, and are there, for example, TERGEEV? Are there foundations in these foundations, for example, that have previously been accused of child abuse or have been alleged or mentioned? Are there institutions, foundations, that have cost the lives of children before, that have caused our children to burn alive? I'm very clear, Mr. Secretary: As of now it's almost -- it's a two-year period -- that society is trying to be designed with the provision of the SS. This material is, in essence, a social engineering effort. There are many other areas of distress that are most critical of social engineering, including the fact that today, with these arrangements, the effort to design society with these approaches. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make one more point. This arrangement is a provision for buying or digesting the fundamental origin of what we refer to as the "SS" arrangement. What about the ones that can't be bought, the ones that can't be promised, the ones that can't be digested? Under the rule of law, he's locked up with decrees. The door to the Istanbul Kurdish Institute, founded in the dark of 1990, was locked. Oh, for God's sake, is that any way to express hostility to a language? What kind of understanding is that, what kind of mentality is that? Another issue, Mr. Minister, is that today, at this hour, another reflection of this SS policy was reflected in Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality; there was only one organization in Turkey that performed Kurdish theatre, Diyarbakır Metropolitan City Theatre. 30 staff members of the City Theatre have been fired, and this City Theatre is between İzmir and Diyarbakır, between Diyarbakır and Tripoli, between Anatolia and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a bridge between the Kurds and the Turks. In fact, fascism is an enemy of peace, an enemy of art, and an enemy of all who do not pledge allegiance to it. With these feelings, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0322par0211	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. Lale Karbük who wants to talk about the other motion is the Fellowship Member. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0323par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, now, I'm going to try to tell you how an ideology that first aims to shape future generations is being taken step by step from the Plan and Budget Commission, and if it stays in the middle today, I'm going to continue there tomorrow as we discuss Article 22. Congressmans, last month, suddenly the Plan and Budget Commission received a four-point bag of legislation. There were two articles of the law that were related to the Loan and Homeland Foundation. First of all, he was changing the purpose of the Loan and Housing Institution, an education in developing national and spiritual values. We said, "What are these?," they said, "When the relevant ministry has a presentation in the budget," you ask. Well, there was a second clause that came in, which was a little bit relevant to today's matter -- step by step we're coming there -- which was that the government would support and support the nutrition and housing costs of the foundations and associations that were listed on the Ministry's tax exemption list. We immediately asked: "What foundations and associations are these?" We were brought 100-odd associations and 100-odd foundation lists, these are what we were called. There was the Cancer Foundation, there was the Protecting Eye, there was the Ensar Foundation. We asked: "Well, according to what criteria will you support them?" It was said: "The Ministry will set those criteria, and they will be supported accordingly." And then time passed, and we came back to the budget talks and Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports, and the next thing we know, they've already been given national, moral values development training for a year, you know, the actual situation, the actual situation account, the clause of the law. What are these? We looked at them as a common protocol with the chairman of the Religious Affairs and were given a number of trainings in youth camps under the name of the Manevia Stations. You know, when we think of the national, spiritual value, we think of the Ataturk, but it's not in one word, it's not in this kind of activity, it's in education, and we criticize it. Then came the current item. What's in that stuff? At this time, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Finance and National Education, will be granted a free right of altitude for forty-nine years over the removal of property to homes, treasures or public enterprises that provide the conditions established by the Ministry of Education, Finance and National Education. Now, members of the council, we keep saying: "Let the state build the dorms, let it run the dorms, let it not be removed from this responsibility, let it control itself." We saw it at the Ensar Foundation, and we saw it in the fire the other day. I don't have time to list the samples here now, but the government insists: "No, we're going to get rid of this responsibility. If there are these properties, let the government use them, let the government build them, let them build them, let them run them. I think we're about to get another statement. Now we have a motion. However, according to this motion, the spending included in Article 63 of Law 492 can be sold directly over half the original value. Now, Congressmans, who are we selling our property to, and why are we selling it to? Mr. Secretary, I think he's here to make a statement, but of course we're against it. In the end, who will set their criteria, how will he determine them, in what circumstances? We're already very curious about that. However, as with the actual situation-real situation, we're getting so much information. In the last two or three months, many properties, especially the Ensar Foundation, have already been transferred, so the clause is now being passed, but it has been transferred. We asked during the Plan-Bource talks if you could give us a list of these, and unfortunately, we haven't been given a healthy list, and I still expect that information from Mr. Secretary, but it's pretty much in every province. There are places that have already been transferred in the last two or three months, especially the Ensar Foundation. So now we're passing the clause, or we're going to vote on it, but it's already actually happening. Congressmans, please don't let the government throw away the responsibility of the dorms in training. Let's not make education the backyard of politics, as we always say. And the control and running of the dorms... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the government has to carry out the responsibility. I'll continue at Article 22 tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0231	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. About the third motion of the same nature...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0325par0233	Motive...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0234	I'm having it read. A special arrangement is being prevented. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0326par0238	Mr. President, the motion that you're about to read is a motion by Firstnur Eütöz and his friends that, above all, is a very clear violation of the Constitution. I'm going to ask you not to proceed with this motion, but it's yours. If you insist on processing the motion, I demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0239	Mr. Altay, would you state the grounds for violation of the Constitution?
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0326par0240	If you promise, sir, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0241	No, no, I mean, whatever it is, I...
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0326par0242	So, the Constitution, above all, has a principle of equality. In this motion, some public goods, treasures, public property, institutions that the government will see fit, the spending in Article 492 of Law 43 is given over half of the original value. I mean, it's very clear to the Constitution that governments are going after the state's property in its own way, not to mention the political morality, not to mention the vice, but to say, you shouldn't do that. No, according to the regulations, I have to take it into consideration. If you say, "I demand a discussion of this situation in accordance with Article 63."
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0243	Now, Mr. Altay, here's the thing: there's a settled attitude regarding claims of violation of the Constitution, but before I explain it, I really wanted to know the grounds for violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0326par0244	It's against the principle of equality, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0245	I mean, it is, of course, the right of a political party, a member of parliament, to oppose a subject, to criticize it, that is your right, of course. You can also criticize this in a much broader way in the framework you specified. However, I'd like to understand the reason for the violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0326par0246	It's against the principle of equality, Mr. President. The state must stand equally close to people, to foundations, to associations. The Constitution has ruled it -- don't make me look for a clause number now -- but there is a clear violation of the Constitution's principle here. I've made a list as a government, and I'm going to make public goods to the foundations, to the associations on this list. That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0327par0247	Not at all.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit09spe0324par0248	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger, inviting the members of the group to a meeting.
tbmm-2017-01-05sit10spe0324par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 446. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 443, which is ranked in the 2nd place, with the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 439 and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Friday (January 6th 2017) that the decision is made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Friday (January 6th 2017). I'm closing the assembly at 00, so I'll say good night.
