tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Aytuğ Atıcı who asked for a statement on the two-year anniversary of the massacre of university student Özgecan Aslan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on February 11th, two years ago, a beautiful human Özgecan Aslan was removed from life in the lowest form of violence against women in Mersin. Two days later, it is the anniversary of the murder of that beautiful man, Ozgecan. On this occasion, I have taken an off-the-book promise from the person of Özgecan to bring up the murders of women who have not been reduced to violence or reduction in women, to ensure that they will not be forgotten. I salute the MPs who have done nothing but deal with the real agendas of Turkey, especially for their safety. Dear friends, in our country over the past 14 years, violence against women has increased by about 1,400 per cent, although our people's traditions, beliefs, and levels of development have not changed. Sexual harassment has increased by 450 per cent. Sexual abuse of the child has increased by 434 per cent. It's terrifying, isn't it? In 2011, the number of women's murders was 121, nearly 3 times in 2016, so unfortunately it was 328. I don't even think about before 2011, you know, when you sign up and you don't. From 2011 to today, there are women's murders three times higher. As it turns out, the murders, the murder of women, they're getting worse. And I'll tell you one more important thing: unfortunately, 50 percent of these killings occurred during a period of extraordinary behavior. The extraordinary state of things, unfortunately, has not been able to prevent women's murders, but we can see that they have prevented everything but terror. I think those who say there is no stability in Turkey are mistaken. These figures show that sexual abuse against women and children has been steadily increasing in violence. These figures say that the punishment method alone does not have a deterrent effect, and it is insufficient to prevent crimes. It is very important for us to use education effectively, to correct the language that managers use, and to make social policies more effective. We offered her a law because we knew the punishments for violence and sexual abuse on women were suspended or that the reductions in execution were inflicted on the conscience of the community. We said, "If there's sexual abuse and violence against women, let no one take advantage of a reduced sentence." But it turns out, unfortunately, that this proposal did not attract the AKP's attention and was not even looked at in the blink of an eye. More effective laws have been needed in the last 14 years to prevent sexual assault and child abuse from increasing incrementalness with increasing official figures. Do we, who come out of the people's hearts and represent the nation, do we do any work on this to protect the lives, wealth, and honor of the people? No, we're not. What are we doing? Some of us should be presidents. Some of us should not be presidents. So, what do they say? He's saying it's weird. It's weird. Take care of my troubles. He says. ▪ Is the presidential system going to prevent new Özgecan cases from happening? No, then throw it away. ▪ Will the presidential system prevent sexual assaults on women and children? ▪ No, so throw it away. Therefore, our women, especially our women, will say no to polarization. Our women will say no to violence. Our women will say no to women's murders. Our women will say no to child abuse. They'll say no to economic violence. And yet, our women will say no to this constitutional amendment, which has no cure for any of this. We don't want to make you forget what happened to Özgecan, and to all the women who were victimized. If we can build a common mind, transparent governance and democracy instead of just one person deciding everything, believe me, we can overcome anything.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0003par0020	Mr. Pitcher, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0002par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. By this occasion, we will bring to life the memory of Özgecan, and ease the suffering of his family a little. On the anniversary of his death, I rekindle Özgecan, honor and respect to his family, to offer my condolences, to share their pain, and to make laws in our country, especially to violence and child abuse. Without these laws, I also condemn lawmakers who have reached out to any law, any constitutional amendment, trying to make them. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Adıyaman Behçet Yıldırım, who wants to talk about Adıyaman's problems. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0005par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have made a promise to express my views on tobacco, which is the top of Adıyaman's most important problems. I salute the General Assembly and my dear people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. When it comes to tobacco, especially as a physician, I object to the use of tobacco and goods to human health and society. Right now, I find the ban on smoking indoors a positive and supportive. Adıyaman is always referred to as a city of peace, but I stress that it is the tobacco of Minister of Interior Süleyman Nobleman. This is a new problem. The sentence "Adıyaman" is disturbing the peace of Adıyaman. With this statement, Adıyaman made the news that tobacco production would be banned very negative in Adıyaman. The production of tobacco that was slaughtered in Adıyaman is both a traditional model of life, a culture and a source of income. In our province, it is widely produced in the form of family agriculture, and in terms of income, it occupys an important part of the province's economy. Thus, tobacco is a character in most places as an agricultural product that is unique to small family businesses. Tobacco also provides a solution to the problem of employment. One of the main reasons for the widespread production of tobacco in Adıyaman Province is that it has a large population of consumers because tobacco growing in this region is a tobacco that can be smoked by cutting it up. I ask: What international capital company do you open up by banning the production of smoked tobacco, which is the livelihood of thousands of families in Adıyaman? What cigarette company are you punishing your own manufacturer for complaining? I thought you were a national at everything. Instead of winning foreign cigarette companies, let your own manufacturer win. Why the hostility to your own manufacturer? If you want to bring in the ban on smoking, then start with foreign cigarette companies, not your manufacturer. In Adıyaman, there used to be a TEKEL factory. INTERVIEW, tobacco quotas were dropped, then completely removed, and what happened? Not only did the villagers and workers win tobacco, all Adıyaman won, the tradesman won; he directly affected all production areas. So, what happened when you banned it? WHEN buying tobacco, Adıyaman produced tobacco, the public was in a much better position than today. He had the buying power, the village to the city, unsanitary, uninstructed migration. This migration has increased today. There's an army of unemployed in the city. It's been a hard-core country town. Most of Adıyaman is now a farmer. Along with the bans on production, it will be a seasonal working city, a farmer sentenced to total poverty. Instead of banning tobacco, how can we grow better - quality tobacco, and how can we export it? Instead of banning small-scale family agriculture in mountain villages, I say ban the environment, the quarry, or the mines that destroy ecology. Adıyaman tobacco has a self-inflicted brand value in the market, has an active market. Adıyaman tobacco has rapidly increased in the domestic market, reducing the consumption of foreign cigarette brands. I'm calling from here to the Black Sea Home Minister: remove your hands from tobacco, which is the main source of income in the mountain villages and Çelikhan district. Whatever nuts mean to Giresun, whatever tea means to Rize, that's tobacco for Adıyaman Çelikhan County. I'll say I'm against this ban on every platform. Since the referendum began today, perhaps you'll consider delaying the ban. And after the referendum, I expect you to publicly announce whether or not you will bring the ban. Likewise, I expect an explanation from my fellow members of the ruling party, the Adıyamans. There are dozens of people calling me about it every day, and I'm sure they're looking for you, too. I'm guessing they're definitely against this ban. The public is wondering if they have any attempts to prevent this ban from being implemented. Do they have any promises, any commitments to the public? What will they say to the people if they can't stop the ban? The people of Adıyaman loved the AKP. The AKP, which has been in power for 15 years, opened what business territory for Adıyaman, which factory did it build? Adıyaman is a debtor from the AKP. Nearby, the Ataturk Dam, the size of a small sea, was not used, but sentenced to thirsty agriculture. Why can't we take advantage of this Ataturk Dam instead of chasing after the little HESEs who slaughtered nature? The AKP also bans jobs, employment, tobacco planting and sales available, trying to cut off the lifeblood of mountain villages and our Çelikhan. Do not shut down this field, which is the breadwinner of thousands of families and people. Let's make improvements, give legal status, create guaranteed production and secure markets. Ask Adıyaman to the villager, his officer, his worker, his leftist, his bureaucrats, his journalist, NGOs today, no one will accept the ban; everyone will cry out that he is against the ban.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. Lightning, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0005par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, I invite the government to hear the voice of the Adıyaman tobacco manufacturer and to listen and support the small manufacturer, the breadwinner of thousands of families who have become tradition. I urge you to give up this idea of bans to make Adıyaman even poorer and make him even poorer. I salute the General Assembly and my people.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0007par0052	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet İlker Çiçil, the deputy of Kahramanmarash, who wanted to address the anniversary of February 12 of Kahramanmarash's liberation from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Çimil. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the 97th anniversary of the rescue of our heromarash from enemy occupation. I salute you, our fellow heroes and citizens, who are watching us on the screen, with my deepest feelings. Before I begin my words, one of them is a martyr of our fellow citizens of Kahramanmarash, one of whom I ask for God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded soldiers, and for our holy nation's patience, strength, and condolences. I would like to address you with a continent of Arif Nihat Asia. March is Turkey's pencil scratcher, Maraş is the cornerstone of Turkey, The one who built the Maraş dates, He's the foreman of the Great Sinan. Dear MPs, one of the major fronts of the National War Period, where the great Turkish nation's fate was written in the history scene, has become our ancient city, Kahramanmarash. Since history as a nation, the most important sign that we can't remain without a flag, without a flag, without a nation has been our Maras' flagised national defense and the spirit of February 12th. We couldn't even understand if we were on the ground or in heaven, when we were in Maraş, where the French general held a press conference after the Liberation War for his epic homeland defence, which he called "Marash." During the occupation of the heroic sons of this ancient city, organized in every neighborhood and victoriously emerged from a battle that lasted twenty-two days and twenty-two nights until February 12, 1920, with one heart and one wrist. In the glorious battle of our country, faith, flag, and honor, this glorious victory has come to pass. On 5 April 1925, Heromarash, the cradle of civilisations, who joined the national struggle with all of its members and gave the best example of national solidarity as "the city that saved itself," took its place in history on 7 February 1973, with the Statistical Medal of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In our heromarash, it was written with the first shot at the occupational forces, that the late Milkyman Imam and Abdal Halal Agha, Rıdvan Hodja, Çakmakçı Sait, Arslan Bey, Senem Ayşe, Yörk Selim, Shehit Marıya, Mililş Nuri, Dr Mustafa and many unknown heroes will be passed down from generation to generation and will be kept alive. As a son of our heromarash, I am proud to say that Kahramanmarash was the name of an all-out defense in the Battle of Salvation, not just for his own land, but for the help of the surrounding provinces, despite the powerful weapons and military superiority of the enemies. Dear lawmakers, as descendants of this saintly nation in Çanakkale, Kahramanmarash, and of this blessed war in Inönu, on July 15th, we have once again shown that this great nation will not impose its national sovereignty and freedom and will not accept custody under any circumstances. From here, from the stand of this Veteran Assembly, I remember once again our July 15th martyrs who willingly sacrificed their lives in the name of the unity and unity of our country. And to our nameless heroes who continue their treatments, I ask my Lord for an urgent cure. Unfortunately, there was no real progress or growth, but there was a way back in every sense, with impacts almost every ten years in our political life and coalitions coming to power. Almost all of the constitutions, including the Ottoman era, have been written by elites with extraordinary processes and guardianial mentality, rather than limiting the state to law, to align society, and as I've just mentioned, they have entered into force after the coups. Since 2002, when our EC PARTY came to power on its own, great economic, political, and economic progress has been made. In the same way, our constitutional amendment package, which includes the presidential government system, which will gain great momentum to pave the way for our democracy, which has come to this day, will guarantee our stability and future, will come before our beloved nation after our President's approval. I'd like to stress specifically that this is not a regime change, it's a system change. Now we call it our nation's word and decision, and we say yes to the new Turkey. As I complete my words with these feelings and thoughts, I express my gratitude to God and to our faithful martyrs who have given their lives in the struggle for power and future, and to all our security forces who have lost their lives in order to ensure peace and stability in our country, and to all our citizens, I pray for God's mercy and for the rest of us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0009par0078	Thank you, Mr. Çimil. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to give my word to the first 15 MPs to enter the system for a minute. We'll start in order. Mr. Gürer, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0010par0084	Mr. President, on 3 February 2017, the AKP government reduced 18 per cent of VAT (KDV) from yachts, kotras and boats to 1 per cent and lifted the private consumption tax, which was 8 per cent. The value added tax for tractors needed for manufacturers and farmers continues at 8%. The government, which said the diesel will be half priced, went up to $4.70, as it failed to fulfill its promise to farmers four months later. And this discount for the farmer is still shaking. Niğde farmer has to farm by extracting underground water. Therefore, the cost of this electrical irrigation water increases production as well as the farmer's lack of payment. It's even a subscriber switch-off. The farmer, who pays for the missing and the fugitive, faces great problems in the age of his wells. The product produced by the Niğde farmer is not valued either. Non-employable support for farmers is provided by the government by yachts, quotas. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0011par0087	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Professor Korkur Boratav, one of our country's leading economists, kicked my father out of college in 1948, me in 1980, and my assistant today. What is now done is worse than September 12th and the others, he said. Yes, what is done today is far more destructive, more violent, and more unlawful than anything that has been done in September 12th or any other period. We, who are in favor of democracy and the legal state of law each period, will be united and united with scientists, regardless of the world's opinion, that you export with the KHK at night, without being proven, without question, without any connections, without evidence. Thinkers, authors, inventors, inventors, and scientists, until they get back to their duties, we're going to have this solidarity and mutual struggle...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0011par0092	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0013par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Agricultural loan co-ops are a very important organisation, which is distributed throughout Turkey, which contributes to the Turkish farmer's agricultural need for input, and is the number one partner in its organisation, Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Turkish agriculture, however, is unfortunately not as well as its entire institutions, as well as its agricultural loan co-ops. Agricultural loan co-operatives make low prices, low interest inputs, or low interest intakes, instead of low-rent inputs, low-price producers moan at high prices, high-interest infertility. For example, most commonly used urethra fertilizer was $1,100 a month ago, now $1.210. If you buy the diesel in advance, you get $4.35, you get $4.67, you can multiply these samples. Does the farmer have cash to buy these entries? You've done so many taxes, why don't you do it in the farmer's debt? Today the farmer's farm loan...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0011par0097	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0014par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's almost all public assets have been transferred to the asset fund with a decree published. The reason is that these companies will be run more efficiently and effectively. I'm asking the Minister: How will the five-person Board of Entity Board of Directors manage these companies more efficiently, serving in a very different and large area? What's so special about these 5 people? How much do these things get paid? The Governing Body requires at least five years of experience. For example, if there is only one company that has ever been appointed to the administration, which company is it? Are you going to take out loans or sell them to allies by pawning assets to foreign loan companies? The public expects a good explanation on this matter.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0011par0101	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0015par0103	Yesterday, no criminal charges were filed, and with the means provided by the State of Emergency alone, 330 have been removed from public office, 4,464 academics and 4,464 people. What we went through yesterday, once again, makes us right. God forbid, it's an indication of what this country will experience if there is a referendum. None of the decisions that have been made have the right to appeal, none of the decisions that have been made have control, and you call it what's being done within the law. The sole responsibility for these antidemocratic practices is the Constitutional Court, which operates as its coalition partner with the AKP government. It is a shame for our country to have members of the Constitutional Court, who have decided not to be in control of the State of Emergency practices, in a non-democratic sense.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0011par0104	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0016par0106	Thank you. According to a press claim today, MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan Qatar has been holding peace talks with members of the group. I've also heard from my colleagues that there are completely emotional relationships under the active releases of regret in Bursa. Considering that those who were expelled with the latest KHKs, especially yesterday's KHK, are of a republican, democratic, leftist weight, the claims of peace talks with the media seem likely to be true. In this case, I wonder if the parallel and the AKP will also be declared terrorists if they will cross paths and continue to walk within the same range. Good work, everyone.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0018par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister: We're going to clean up the attackers by declaring the July 15 coup as an excuse. You've finally dismissed 4,464 teachers and academics as the dissolution of the academics. You're hiding behind the coup, liquidating patriots and democrats. You're exporting DGI opportunisms and KHKs to people who don't think like you in the state, and you're using the KHKs for illegal and unfairness. Give it up as soon as you can. I'd like to ask the Minister of Family and Social Policy: there is no income testing to benefit our exported citizens from general health insurance. Aren't these people citizens of the Republic of Turkey? Isn't that what's being done to a citizen? We expect your Ministry to make the necessary correction immediately.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0019par0115	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0020par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been two years since Özgecan Aslan was brutally murdered in the van he was in to return home from his school in Tarsus district. Once again, I curse and condemn the vile and poor who have abused her with weakness and weakness. On Friday (February 3rd), our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with the participation of our Prime Minister Mr. Buli Yıldırım, our ministers and deputies, opened Turkey's first largest city hospital in Mersin. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. As a friend of yours as a physician, I have been a close witness to the problems that our citizens have suffered in health care for many years. I've seen the days when the insured were held hostage by patients who were not admitted to the public hospital, without drugs, who couldn't pay for them; these are the days of the AK PARTY governments. Today, we opened our Mersin City Hospital, 12,000 polyclinic capacity, 1,300 beds, close to 5,000 medical staff, 230 clinic rooms, 51 O.R.s, 210 beds...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0021par0122	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0022par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. The parliamentary third-largest party's co-Chairs, the group's vice presidents, in total 12 MPs were imprisoned in prison, while the commission and parliament were discussed without enough debates, and the secret vote should be held, but the constitutional amendment was accepted, which was said to have been voted openly by the ministers in the first place. While the referendum date has not even been set, we see literature in public broadcasting organs, mud media, social media, anti-polarizing, anti-referencing, even reports that people who say no have been subjected to insults and violence, as they did last week in Kadıköy Square. The greatest responsibility in this matter falls to power. The publications that raise society must be avoided by the attitudes and actions that lead to conflicting environments. A healthy referendum process should be the first duty of power to pass this controversial proposal passed through parliament.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0021par0126	Mr. Reyhanlıoğlu...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0023par0128	Thank you. The 97th year of Heromarash's deliverance from enemy occupation continues to be celebrated this week in Kahramanmarash with enthusiasm and excitement. February 12th is a very important day for our city. He saved our city from enemies by putting his life on the line for God, for God, for God, for the country, for the flag, for all the impossible. This blessed victory brought to our city both the Medal of Honor and the title of hero. There is no laughing at the enemy without the tomb. The Lord God has rewarded the zeal of our fathers, whose heart is not in captivity, and whose heart is not in bondage. This is Senem Ayşe, who worked in this victory, the greatest symbol of our salvation, the Milkyman Imam, who wore her husband's gun and put on her clothes, and fought against the enemy in this blessed victory, and I remember with mercy and gratitude all our heroes who worked in this blessed victory. I celebrate the liberation of our heromarash from enemy occupation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0021par0131	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Apparently, the ruling party will sit the referendum process on inequality, injustice and unethical values. With the SEC released last night, all roads were opened to make the media the trumpet of power. On the other hand, some academics, who run the official institutions, pressured the public in the provinces, started campaigning for the so-called "yes" campaign, which went beyond the middle 3 science books. I won't even remind you of universal concepts such as morality, conscience, and ethical values, but it's against the law for people in the status of civil servants to do propaganda. Will the government do a legal action on this matter, or will it say, "It is good to be a shepherd"? I'd like to remind you once again that there's never been a court clown who's ever been in history. I wish everyone would come to their senses during the referendum.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0025par0136	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0026par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. The wrong practices of the AKP have made the people of my homeland a poet. I don't know how you'll respond to anything you know better than anyone. I don't know how you'll respond. You've never heard anyone so much as yourself. You've never heard anyone but yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0027par0143	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0028par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Lüleburgaz State Hospital was built 40 years ago. Forty years ago, the population of Lüleburgaz (Lüleburgaz) was 25,000, and today its population was 150,000. Hospital's the same, same number of beds. Patients can't go to private hospitals without money. In public hospitals, lack of care is a knee-deep, as if you're going to private hospitals. Both private hospitals have been closed from the office. Health and education from the government's main tasks are dying. Hospitals are inadequate, schools are inadequate. Our people live unsanitary and uneducated. Why has the construction of a state hospital been postponed so long? When will sufficient schools be held for Luleburgaz? If not, why are taxes taken from our people and where are these taxes being paid, I thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0029par0148	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0030par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister recently made a call to the public and said: "Look at the no-no people, decide according to them. We also looked at the owners of the wave wave wave of the voice spread throughout Anatolia to clarify what the Prime Minister said. Who are these no-no-no-no-no-no-no-mans?" When we looked at the Noists, we saw the mothers, the fathers, the women who did not want to deliver their children's future to the will of one person; we saw the labor, the sweat of the farmers who had been left to rot in the warehouses; we saw the young who were holding back the hope of living together in spite of all the negatives. So, Mr. Prime Minister, as we looked at the no-nosers, we saw hope growing in spite of you in this land where you strive to divide, polarize. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0031par0155	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0032par0157	The mindset, which considers the July 15 coup to them as a blessing from God, has officially turned the blow into an opportunity. Under the state of emergency, another decree has been issued today in accordance with the law. The decrees of the law have already exceeded its purpose, and it's out of the question. We do not understand how the winter tire obligation, unemployment insurance, Banking Law, private educational institutions and some other regulations that have been issued in the decision issued today has an extraordinary relevance. It's not enough that there's a referendum on extreme conditions, but now it's now being tried to gain the propaganda advantage over this rule of law. They're overriding the Supreme Election Board's audit to ensure equality in propaganda-era broadcasts. You're trying to get our people to say yes to this freaky change that you can't even defend by taking advantage of being a government and the extraordinary state. Whatever you do, our great people will not accept the regime of the only man you wish to bring.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0033par0162	Thank you, lawmakers. Normally, 15 lawmakers spoke, but one of our MPs failed to get into the system because of his age, because he was dealing with fast teenagers or because he was competing. Therefore, as of his age, I make a positive distinction with him, and I promise Mr. Pineak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0034par0167	I'll actually compete with them, so be it. Thank you, Mr. President. There have been a number of academic massacres with the latest KHK. They've paid the price by exporting their intellectual stances, which are always on the side of freedom and human rights. O power, first find out who is the President of Ankara University who has made these decisions for you. This person, who lives more royally than the king, is trying to undermine your power with such crazy direction than anything else. I'm calling: don't drag the country into the abyss. By giving up these practices immediately, seek guidance in reason and conscience. There's a dark end to a road that doesn't lead to science. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0035par0173	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents in order. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0036par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 48th anniversary of the National Movement Party. The nationalist Movement Party was founded on February 9, 1969, taking the nationalist court as its guide, with a state-state union, with the state as its last term, and began its journey into Turkish political life. Since the establishment of the National Movement Party, Turkey has always taken responsibility and initiative to overcome problems in politics, economics and social life, with the idea of moving Turkey to the great horizons. The National Movement Party has always been on the grounds of legitimacy, never given way to custody centers, of course not. In March 12, 1971, the government of the 1970s, in the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1977, on September 12th, on February 27th, on April 27th and 2007, in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, he was on the side of democracy, law, legitimacy. We had the closest example of this on July 15th. The National Movement Party has taken on a historic mission to overcome this great disaster, not allowing the coup d'états to stand firm behind the state, the legitimate government and the national will. We have claimed democracy and the state of law, we have not given up on the national state and we have uncompromisingly defended our unitary state structure.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0035par0180	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0036par0181	We applied the right politics at the right time. We interpreted the developments not just for today, but for yesterday, for today, for tomorrow. First my country and nation, then my party and I put the principle of philosophy at the heart of our philosophy. With that understanding, we've never been irresponsible, we've never had a day of unity, we've never relied on abuse, we've not built our politics on deception and deception, we've endeavored to guide the current, we've never owed anyone a diet. In our politics, there is no negotiation, no expectation of profit, no possibility, no possibility. We've always loved our country for nothing. We are today, as we were yesterday, from our political stance with the power of the national government, from our political stance, from our head, from our full belly, from our happy tomorrow, from our social goal, from our beliefs...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0035par0182	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0036par0183	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0035par0184	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0036par0185	...we will not back down from defending the bond between them. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to all of our friends in this blessed and difficult journey of our party, who have long lived the lives of the people of the country and the people of the heart, especially the founder of our party, Alparslan Turkesh, who have informed the rest of the world. The foundation wishes to bring blessings to our state, our beloved nation, our democracy, our politics, the Turkish and Islamic world and humanity, and to the same enthusiasm, the same excitement, the same enthusiasm, and the same spirit for many years. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0037par0188	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0038par0191	Mr. President, first of all, we want to express that we are celebrating the anniversary of the nationalist Movement Party, one of the opposition parties of our Parliament, one of the key parties of Turkish political life, and we want to say how much all its members, all its loved ones, love the republic, are loyal to the republic's regime, loyal to the parliamentary system, and we want to wish that this organization's anniversary would be a blessing in all its decisions later on. As the Republican People's Party, we will now have a request from the Parliamentary Presidency and your administration regarding the Turkish Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots that have been published for some time. Despite all the laws issued after January 2nd, which were alleged to have been carried out on January 2nd, another decree has been issued yesterday and today and it is said to have been made on January 2nd as president of the President. This is now a problem in the OHRK, which the Constitutional Court should oversee in terms of coverage, time and subject, but does not control itself by ignoring it. It is against both the Constitution and it is against the authority issued by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as a process where there are no ministers to be present in order for these KHKs to leave, as well as dozens of KHKs published for seven hours at a meeting held in the past with signatures. We're about to have a request from your presidency, but in the course of our time today, the Prime Minister and the people running the campaign, they're in an aggressive manner.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0037par0194	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0038par0196	Because they can't defend the regime change they signed under them, they're in some kind of aggression, and when they're having a discussion of content, they're wrestling on the run. There's a statement claiming the House has been strengthened. 85 per cent of parliament's powers are transferred to the Palace, and at this point the Parliament is growing stronger. We are now calling for all of our political parties from here. The strengthening of parliament depends on the separation of the executive and legislative bodies, whether the head of the administration appoints or does not instruct. There's only one way, it's possible that by altering the Election Law and the Political Parties Act, all parliamentary candidates will be determined by a preliminary election with the participation of all members of the parties. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, here, as the Republican People's Party, in the parliament predicted to work as far as 10 Martas, lawmakers agreed by all parties...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0039par0201	Mr. Special, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0038par0202	I'm picking it up, sir. If there's a referendum, there's a vision of the House working as far as 10 Martas, then going on vacation. We have time ahead of us, so let's make a change in the Political Party Law and Election Law. Let the parliamentary candidate lists of all parties determine not the leaders, but the commissions of a few members, but the pre-elections of all members by voting. Then no one comes here with the leadership's blessing, not the leader's sultan, the strong Parliament. (Applause from the CHP rows) (Applause) (Even if it does come out, the Parliament will grow stronger, the Parliament will win, democracy will win. We expect other parties to respond to this request. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0040par0206	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0041par0209	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while I begin my remarks, I congratulate you on the 48th anniversary of the National Movement Party's organisation -- a root and effective party movement. On this occasion, indeed, I also bless the late Alparslan Turkesh, the founder and leader of the nationalist Movement Party, which is important in Turkish political history and its contributions. God rest his soul. Dear lawmakers, Parliament has recently made a very important arrangement regarding the government system, which envisions a very important system change in the Constitution. I sincerely thank everyone who contributes in this sense and contributes positively with their participation. What we're trying to accomplish here, with the Constitutional change, is that when we look at our Turkish political history, we're stressing that when we look at our country's life, it's an important change in its ability to open its path, to make quick decisions, to achieve its goals in front of strong Turkey, to solve problems in the system of quick and effective decision-making; it's never a regime change; it's not a regime change; it's not a regime change. The Republic is the republic of all of us, there is no change in the republic. We need to do this, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, and we're especially vocalizing at every opportunity. What is to be done with the constitutional amendment and the upcoming referendum process is to provide a permanent, strong system in Turkey concerning the governing system and its model with the presidential system. Here, it's unfair to focus all arguments on one man, to try to create perceptions as if one man is being brought to order. There's no regulation here about people, there's no system...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0040par0212	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0041par0213	...it's a permanent and expeditive arrangement for our country's management of the process. In this sense, the arrangement needs to be looked at from a wide perspective. The system envisions a system that will open the way for our country, make quick decisions, create effective solutions. However, I told you yesterday, our Turkish Armed Forces are here to fight against the DEAS terrorist organization, the PKK, the PYD. We had two martyrs on the 170th day of Operation Firat Shield in El Bab, in particular. The number of martyrs has increased here. The number of martyrs has increased. I pray for God's mercy to them, and to our wounded, and to our veterans there. We need to remember here that Turkey is going through a process where the veil is now drawn against terrorist organizations, and we are clear on everyone's ranks.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0042par0217	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0041par0218	We are all together in a process in which Turkey is determined to end terrorist organizations in the form of an attack beyond the struggle. And in that sense, I specifically stressed yesterday, that July 15th is an age for us, for each of us, and the fight against terrorist organizations will continue decisively, and we expect everyone to add strength to the process, with solutions that each of us can contribute constructively. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0042par0220	Thank you. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, there is a request for a statement from Mr. Benli. That his name was mentioned in a speech made yesterday. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0043par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. During a time period when I wasn't present at the General Assembly yesterday, Mithat Sancar, counting the names of other AK PARTY MPs and mentioning my name, we fought for human rights for many years together, is human rights only when it comes to you? Just for the record, it's true that during February 28th, I wrote thousands of petitions, lost hundreds of cases, spent thirteen years of my life trying to lift the ban on the headscarf. But everyone who knows me from 1997 knows that I, not only myself, but a lot of people who think like me, have fought for a lot of things that aren't about us, and we continue to find them. Because human rights are not in anyone's monopoly or in their lives. Questioning what, when, where, how we say it is not in anyone's discretion or belief. Thank you so much for your promise.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit01spe0044par0228	Thank you, Mr. Benli. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On February 28, 2015, Turkey's public and President Erdogan were deeply disturbed by the Dolmabahçe Palace, where the AKP government officials and HDP representatives conducted talks to investigate and identify the contents of their talks and inform the Parliament and its public opinion with respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission on the basis of Articles 104,5, and 105, according to Articles of the Constitutional Charter. [[Artvin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[40s.]] [[Burdur]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Çanakkale]] 19) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 20) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] On February 28, 2015, four representatives from the government of the HDP met at Dolmabahçe Palace, explaining a memorandum of understanding in front of a TV camera after a half-hour of preliminary talks. Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan, Interior Minister Efkan Ala, AKP Group Deputy Chairman Mahir Ünal and Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Muhammad Dervisoglu attended the meeting on behalf of the government. Three weeks later, however, I never accepted President Erdoğan's agreement with Dolmabahçı, nor did I have any knowledge. They had statements in context. However, the president of the 22nd term TBM and the Deputy Prime Minister of the AKP, Bkent Arinc, agreed on that subject, including the seating order of Taha Akyol's Currency Truth in the TUNK programme. I know the president knows. From what I've been told, Mr. President and Mr. Yalçin Akdoğan have expressed that they have made himself aware of the developments immediately. Besides, I think it was March or April, and the President had some comments that criticised this image. I was forced to respond to those words as a government spokesman. A sentence there, Mr. President, is well aware of these developments. They have made statements in the form of the President and denied his statements. There are many allegations and opinions about the content of the Dolmabahçe talks that disturbed President Erdogan. The government and opposition talks have many different interpretations, and there is a great mystery in society. Did these talks occur within President Erdoğan's knowledge, or did these talks really occur without President Erdogan's knowledge? In light of the above issues stated in the Dolmabahçe talks, we respectfully present the opening of the Parliament's research commission, according to the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to include the TBMM information of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and HDP officials' talks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to study the problems in the industrial sector and determine measures that will make Turkey's industry a high-profile and competitive structure, we would like to introduce a parliamentary investigation into Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] 9) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Artvin]] [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Burdur]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] The industry is important in the development and development of countries. In the developing countries of industry, it seems that continued growth has been achieved, prosperity has been increasing, unemployment has waned. Turkey's economy is also growing, but this growth based on consumption, not production, does not reduce unemployment or poverty. Due to the wrong political preferences of AKP governments, there has been an import explosion in Turkey. During the 2003-2015 period, Turkey imposed 2 trillion 282 billion dollars in imports, 1 trillion 181 billion dollars in exports, offering $1.1 trillion in foreign trade deficits. The main reason Turkey has given such a large deficit in foreign trade is that production production is based on low-tech products. In 2008, the AKP held a search conference under the title "The Vision of Turkey's Industrial Strategy," and Turkey was set before "to become Eurasia's production base in medium and high-tech products." The period of the 2011-2014 Turkish Industrial Strategy Document, which focused on this goal and includes 72 actions, has been completed. "In 2011, 85 per cent of the actions were achieved in 2012, 85 per cent in 2012, 82 per cent in 2013 and 90 per cent in 2014," the ministry documents said. Although their statements were included, in 2008-2014, there was no serious distance from the transformation in the industrial sector. According to official statements, the foreign trade deficit for high and medium high-tech products was $438 billion from 2003-2014 to 90 billion in low and medium-tech products. That number is the document of failure. Turkey is being targeted as "Afro-Avrasya's design and production base" instead of "Avrasia's production base" for the 2015-2018 period, while Turkey can't get distance by only growing targets. With plans and documents that don't land, increasing industry's competitiveness is not possible to produce high-profile high-end technology products in the manufacturing industry. With that understanding, Turkey will not be able to get out of the middle income trap. To transform in Turkish industry, a radical change of mentality is essential. It is necessary to take a stand from mind, from science, from free university, from creative thinking, from funding RD, from a qualified educational system. The development of the investment environment is necessary, the institutionalisation of legal security. It is necessary not to make targets of institutions such as ODTU, which guide intelligence and science. As long as Turkey doesn't go down this road, it's impossible to get anywhere with Hamasi's rhetoric. The TBM should take responsibility to contribute to the development of our country and do a study that will pave the way for structural transformation so that Turkey does not miss the Fourth Industrial Revolution. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is needed to determine issues in the industrial sector and measures that will make Turkey's industry a high-profile and competitive structure. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission in accordance with Articles 104, 105, our 98th and Interior Charter 104, in order to determine the problems of the unidentified police and to investigate the arbitrary practices of interviews. [[Artvin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[40s.]] [[Burdur]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Çanakkale]] 24) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] After succeeding in the YGS exam, the interview, the written exam, the 15-day hard-working education, the police from a full-fledged hospital will receive a written medical report and the police will be appointed as a candidate police officer to the Security General's staff, with the law within the internal security package, a week before graduating from vocational schools. A week before graduation, an interview test was announced, even though the gun serial numbers were clear. Nine days after graduation, interview exams took place within the following three days. In the interview exam, the police would be asked questions about the police profession and the level of information would be measured, but sing like a sea rooster (Admin Police Occupational College), the license plate of Sorum, who is the police manager, who is the police commissioner, who is the police commissioner? Students who have been successful in their studies, who have not been punished, have been deemed a failure without cause or reason, and have been denied the right to become a police officer. Students who ranked in their schools were eliminated from interviews for no reason. A total of 1,803 police officers, who have sacrificed their future, youth, education, all their time for this, but have not been compensated, must be appointed, and the sacrifices they suffered. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully present the opening of the Parliament's research commission, according to Articles 104, 105, of our Constitutional Charter and Internal Laws, in order to determine and investigate the problems of non-assigned police officers. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0044par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday/2/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. [[Mwah.]] On 16 January 2017, Van MP Mr. Nadir Yıldırım and his friends suggested that Parliamentary Research Investigation Number 3612, given to the Grand National Assembly for the purpose of investigating torture allegations in Van Type Prison, be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information and read in the presentations Thursday (9/2/2017) at the same date. The first speaker in favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal is Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez. Here you go, Mr. Irmez. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0045par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Turkey is in the midst of the sum of political, economic and diplomatic crises that trigger each other and mutually foster each other. The political instability caused by the AKP government demonstrates a great example of irresponsibility, deepening its economic crisis day by day. Turkey has become a country that mortgages its own public companies. Turkey is a country that sacrifices its poor soldiers in Syria because it can't get rid of Kurdish phobia. Opposition journalists can be held in prisons for months without indictments. The truth is being reversed, even the right of the public to receive information through perception operations through widespread media channels. The right to receive information has become a desert in the academy, as has been destroyed. No one really knows where it is. The political climate has been ripped out of a democratic compromise, and a climate of fear has dominated the entire country. Dear friends, no one knows where this is going, and at the beginning of these places are the first-degree detention centers under the absolute responsibility of the state. Today, as HDP MPs, we can't make a prison visit, so we don't have a chance to do a thorough examination of what's going on in prisons. The Justice Minister of this country has made it clear in the Plan and Budget Commission last year that we do not find it right for Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs to visit prisons. As Regents, we deal with such shame and fear, but it does not prevent our eyes from being able to study. I'm going to tell you about the hundreds of rights violations and tortures that have been transmitted to us in my very limited time. Dear lawmakers today have been transformed into Turkey's practically outdoor prison. The antidemocratic practices of the AKP government have been widely felt on every citizen. Prisons are no different. In prisons, there have been such severe violations of rights, arbitrary practices, and tortures that these practices have made September 12th search. For a long time there have been severe human rights violations and violations of human dignity in prisons. Torture, abuse and right violations against prisoners and prisoners can sometimes lead to death in prisons. Prisoners and prisoners are thus subject to a second punishment mechanism. Dear MPs, one of the scariest reports from the prisons is the Van T-type Closed Prison. According to information from lawyers, they were severely tortured when the prisoners who were sent to Van T-type Prison refused to search naked during their entry into the prison. In the 1990s, hezbollah's violent method of pork was applied as a form of torture. After the torture of the prisoners, even his request to go to the infirmary was denied, but they continued to be tortured. Ferit Hascelek, one of the prisoners who was tortured, told us through his lawyers that we are not guards. This prison will be a real prison, remember these faces. He has threatened the tortured prisoners. It is said that these non-prison personnel have been placed here and have given themselves names such as the "A" team, or "A" force. Will you block your ears with this terrible information and ignore it, dear lawmakers? Dear friends, some of these practices have often been reflected in the press and have been met by public opinion, but there has been no change in prison policy, which remains one of the biggest obstacles to the democratisation of Turkey. All prisoners and prisoners who remain in prison are responsible for the state and must be subjected to humanitarian treatment. While the principle of equality is highlighted in the Constitution, it is not considered that citizens are inside or outside, but let's call it the country now, where there is an original prison policy and regime for prisons. Particularly after the coup attempt on July 15th, prisons have been transformed into a torture facility in the state of emergency, which has been under continuous conditions for months. Several national and international organisations have also reported that citizens have been subjected to severe violations of rights and torture in both detention and prison. In prisons, it has been routinely imposed on prisoners and prisoners to be subjected to battery, insult, threat, torture and abuse, transport and transport without legal basis, obstruction of access to health rights, such as searching for the naked search, for sick prisoners, disciplinary fines issued in prison, and restricting defence rights against these sentences, restricting lawyers' talks, the policy of the court process, the violation of the rights of the prisoners and prisoners to be treated fairly from around the judiciary, the obstruction of communication rights and radio broadcasts, the restricting of health rights, the enforcing of military coup applications in prisons, the way of which has been used incurred, and the application of the daily application of drug enforcement. Today, practices with no legal basis in prisons have transformed prisons into more collective detention sites than ever. The State of Emergency has hit prisons most of all, dear friends. The long-standing collective punishment policy in prisons has become even more violent with the State of Emergency declaration. Not only the prisoners and prisoners in prison, but also the violations of rights against their relatives. It has become a fully-enhanced torture tool on citizens who have already been banned from the right to see three people outside the family and family, and have been developed over the phone and letter ban on prisoners, the strict ban on communication, book restrictions, the obstruction of entry of some newspapers into prison, the enjoyment of the prison administration's attitudes and evacuations. According to the Civil Society Association in the Criminal Execution System, 111 new criminal execution institutions have been opened in Turkey in the last ten years. With the new openings, the number of execution institutions has risen to 372 and their capacity has risen to 197,297. Turkey has reached the highest level of all time, four times higher in the number of prisoners and prisoners since 2002, when the AKP came to power. The explanation for this, dear friends, is that you put them in first, and then you create a crime. That's the basic principle of the law. We're going through a period of time when the judgment itself has been transformed into a means of political punishment. Let's remember the ongoing ACK cases, even the indictment of that case was prepared years later, there was no crime, and the crime was later tried to be fabricated. Prisons in Turkey currently have close to 1,000 patients, close to 330 serious patients. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ said on January 10, 2017 that 2,300 people were killed in prisons from 2009 to October 2016. Although there have been hospital reports during the solution process, we understand from the arrests made to the Forensic Medical Association today that the cause of the release of heavy-patient prisoners is community partnership. So, now, why is the torture going on? I want to ask, who's fooling you this time? Look, I'd like to give you a concrete example, that Hakkari County General Assembly Member Gibraltar is still being held in prison despite his deteriorating health. This politician lives out his guts and tries to survive with the help of the prisoners. According to information announced by the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey and Amnesty International to the press and public, it is not suitable to stay in the prison provided by doctors. Despite reports, the treatment is being delayed and kept in prison. So I'd like to ask you one more time, in the presence of this House. Torture is a crime of humanity. Today, he was held hostage and exposed to rights violations. I'm saying there is. If so, are you ready to resign? Or I'll resign." he said. Instead of responding to such an open call, you took 12 of our MPs hostage, including our co-Chairs. We're repeating this call. Let's go together and study it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0046par0034	Thank you, Mr. Irmez. Ankara MP Aydın Ünal is opposed to the group proposal. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0047par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Very dear friends, we have studied the grounds for HDP's group proposal, the claims here, and we have had various discussions about it. First of all, I'd like to point out at the beginning of my speech that the claims of the Human Rights Association Van Branch and the Libertarian Legislators Platform, as stated or mentioned for this reason, have been completely denied during our talks with the authorities. I need to express in particular that the search for the upper hand is carried out according to Article 36 of Law 5275 and by Article 46 of the charter, as is done throughout the world, as is done in the European Union, there is no violation of shame. In addition, the search does not subject the prisoner or the person in custody, the prisoner or the prisoner, to a full naked search, but also to a certain type of clothing. Now, in these searches at the Van Type T Prison, some arrests and prisoners have resisted, and in our talks, the search has been used in proportion to resistance. So I'd like to state in the first place that the allegations expressed in this motive or in this group proposal, the allegations that this NGO has made, the reports that they are false. Now, we need to see that the AK PARTY, the Justice and Development Party, is the party that came to this day after a very long, very radical struggle. It's not just a battle that began in 2001, but a battle that began much earlier, perhaps for centuries. In this struggle, the AK PARTY, the case carried by the EC PARTY, has faced great challenges. These challenges include torture, including imprisonment, and the closure of the party. One of the things we've seen the most is that the case carried by the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) trying to be carried out along with violent or armed terrorist organizations. In fact, we have seen the latest examples of this in recent years. A Fetullahist effort, such as showing a terrorist organisation and the EC PARTY together, has often been expressed by different parts of an effort by Fetullah Gulen -- including this platform -- by different sources. The most specific feature of the EC PARTY is that it has never been violent, never approved violence, and the main reason for its coming to power today is the distance that the EC PARTY puts between violence and violence. We fought in a nonviolent way, we didn't approve of violence, we didn't commit violence; despite the fact that our party was shut down, we did not resort to violence in any way, even though we had been tortured. Again, another matter, friends of Diyarbakır Prison. You know, one of the first to speak of Diyarbakır Prison on the state floor is our founder, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He has expressed tortures in Diyarbakır Prison, which he has highlighted several times in his speech. Again, we as the AK PARTI Group have established a commission, a subcommittee to investigate the tortures of Diyarbakır Prison after 1980, and this commission has been very successful, very useful, and continues to do so as chairman of Mr. Orhan Miroglu. Mr. Orhan Miroglu is an MP who was tortured in Diyarbakır Prison. Frankly, when we were listening to witnesses on that commission, listening to people being tortured there, many of our friends, including myself, couldn't hold back our tears. We were amazed that the torturers were subjected to inhuman treatment without looking at their race, without looking at their ideology, even without even looking at the crimes they were accused of, and as a human being, at many points, at many points, we were ashamed, and it is our greatest desire that Diyarbakır Prison would never happen again. No matter what happens in Diyarbakır Prison or its lightest, no matter what happens in any way, it's our greatest desire that torture should not happen in any way, and we've fought for it. The EC PARTY said that as soon as it came to power at the end of 2002, it would show zero tolerance for torture, and indeed, from that period on, torture has been tolerated with zero tolerance. Yes, there are allegations of torture, and most of these torture claims are alleged by terrorist organizations or by the media, by NGOs associated with terrorist organizations. Europe, in particular, has a policy of compressing Turkey through torture, where, unfortunately, a perception operation is being conducted. Oh, no torture? Of course, there may be some isolated incidents happening, including those that, when we as MPs are aware of them, when our government is informed of them, they consider and pursue the complaints against them one by one. I'm stressing here specifically that torture is a crime of humanity. It's unacceptable, there's no excuse for it, there's no reason for it, there's no way for torture or torture to happen, and as I said, we've been fighting since 2002, and we're going to continue this fight very decisively. But there's torture. We also know there's an operation like trying to jam the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY government.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0048par0044	Oh, who's gonna squeeze me? That's what you always take refuge in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0047par0045	Like I said, it's been used a lot since the end of 2002. In fact, there's a very obvious example of this. On the evening of July 15th, many of us were under the roof of this House, a coup attempt was made to destroy the Constitution, to destroy the state. The next day, on the morning of July 16th, there was talk of this coup attempt, about the martyrs, the wounded, the allegations of torture, the victims. They're all ulterior motives, they're all ulterior motives. Everyone, all of us, we show zero tolerance for torture, zero tolerance for humanity, one reaction, and we'll always have zero tolerance for this, hopefully forever. We also looked at the allegations in Van Type T Prison, and we got the reports on that, and we saw that the allegations were personally examined by the bureaucrats, the interested ones. And as a member of the Prisons Correctional and Investigation Commission, we're not in our jurisdiction to study torture on this subject, but we're doing our reviews at prisons. Yesterday, Balıkesir Prison conducted inspections, subcommittee, and today he's doing further examinations at Bursa Prison. We object to this being used as terrorism propaganda, my friends. So as terrorism propaganda, we are absolutely opposed to the use of torture as a means to justify the terrorist organization or as a means to legitimize terrorism, and we will fight it to the end. We're not going to deny this struggle by saying there is no torture; we're going to examine all the allegations one by one, we're going to prove that these allegations are false; if there are individual errors, we're going to investigate, we're going to investigate these individual mistakes, but it's being done in torture. It's being done in torture. We're never going to allow the perception operation to become a propaganda of terrorism, a propaganda of terrorism. It has to be known. The Fetullahist terrorist organization is trying to do that. After July 15th, he's trying to spread a lie about torture against the Fetullahist soldiers, especially the Fetullahians, and we don't give it, we don't give it, we don't give it, we don't give it, we don't give it, we don't give it. In the same way, we will not be a part of the PKK's propaganda to legitimize, justify, or advertise that the PKK terror organization has also been tortured, and we will continue to fight such perception operations as we have fought terrorism. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0049par0050	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. In favour of the group's proposal, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0050par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, when we look at the history of prisons, the Penal Code and the Penal Code, which is primarily part of the Law on Punishment, has always existed in history, because it has always been a crime of absolute proportion wherever there is a human being. However, these crimes need a fair trial, and the criminal or suspects who are being tried or tried in a fair way must be executed in the execution institutions. What's the point when we look at the history of criminal execution institutions so far? Its purpose has always been in favor of a modern execution law, but when we look at history -- the history of the Republic of Turkey is from the history of the Ottomans -- were there execution laws, prisons, and free sentences at that time? Not in the early days. At the time, there were not many places for prisons because of Islamic law and Sharia. Since 1840, he has been imprisoned in a physical sense, not in prisons, but in a physical sense, and that comes with time -- after 1851-1856, the castle signs are used as dungeons. When these castle signs were used as dungeons, they were damp, airless, and at the same time the sun was blind. We're coming all the way up to Islahat Ferrament, after Islahat Ferri, the prisons come up and the prisons are set up by law at that time. However, the prisons that existed from that period, which were in these towers, in the castles, are more likely to improve, and after the republic was established -- along with the Turkish Penal Code No.765 -- have met the prisons and the state of the Republic of Turkey since 1926. Now, when we look at this history... The speaker who spoke to me just now said, "Sir, do you want to torture me, torture me, or not?" This is the propaganda of terrorist organizations. These are total lies. If you look at the Turkish Language Foundation, torture, torture means material and spiritual persecution, creating extreme tension, creating distress and torment. I'm calling, Mr. Secretary, and we're looking at the speakers of power, who were just removed from office yesterday under the decree of the law. Isn't that torture for the teachers, isn't that torture? In your sense of torture and torture, do you have to beat him with a stick or do you have to string him up? What is your sense of persecution? (Cheers and applause) Look at the Turkish Language Foundation, look at the literature of the world; if it tortures people financially and spiritually, if it causes suffering, if it causes stress, it is persecution. So there's no other explanation. If kicking, slapping, beating with a bat is torture, torture, then this, dear friends, there is no understanding, the world has already given up that understanding. Now, when we look at the problems in prisons, dear friends, I'm going to give you the title. One: focus... I'm giving you a place, İstanbul Silivri Prison 6, 7, 8. When lawyers go to see their clients in the wards, they're not allowed to buy pens, paper and pencils, and lawyers can't get in touch with them. So why is this lawyer going there? He's going to talk to his client, make a useful, useful defense for his client, to teach him his rights, his law. When these meetings are held there, they're being filmed in a guard's custody, and that's how the negotiations are completed. All of the statements that the suspect or the defendant has made about the issues they're talking about are on camera, and they're using it in court. Well, don't they ask you: No one can be forced to make a statement against themselves in the 38th Amendment of the Constitution? When you're interviewing his lawyer, why are you taking this job in illegal ways, creating evidence? Dear friends, this guard, and those who also have the camera recordings and even the pencils... let me give you a naked example: if you take these glasses of mine by force, it will enter the shop, but if you take it without my knowledge, it will become a theft. If the lawyer tells you that there, his client can't give you any explanation. A lawyer has to tell his client the same thing. In fact, in order for the citizen to benefit from the lawyer, in order to benefit from his legal knowledge, he needs to learn from his nudity. Just as a patient goes to a doctor, if the doctor needs to do all of his examinations to diagnose his patient, the lawyer needs to know all about his client, dear friends. If you say to a doctor, "Don't touch a doctor, don't fail." He'll miss the diagnosis. And the lawyer needs to find out with all his nudity. But, with this practice available, lawyers say to their clients: "Look, we're being filmed right now, all our conversations are being recorded, there may be evidence against you, so speak accordingly, and I will not suffer the consequences." Well, then why would the lawyer go there? I don't think he's going there psychologically to satisfy the citizen. Now, there's one Justice Department in Turkey, no different Ministry of Justice. Now, there are weekend talks in Ankara, Sincan. Lawyers can meet on Saturday, Sunday; Istanbul can't meet at the weekend. In the Silivri prisons in Istanbul, the practice is different at 6, 7, 8, 9, and in others, the same political criminals. So, guys, is there a different Department of Justice or what? Nine. You can't go in with paper money, Congressman, paper money. The lawyer's gonna take the paper off you, that's how he's gonna make the call. Now, in Metris Prison, in Metris, there is no paper, pen, and file. You're not even allowed to shake hands with your client here when you go to see the client at Silivri. There's so much to say in that sense. For example, if factories are closing in a country, prisons are constantly increasing, that society is not a healthy society. On November 3, 2012, when the AKP came to political power, 60,561 people were arrested in Turkey -- including the government and the prisoner -- 193,047 people were arrested as of September 21, 2016 -- three times more geometrically. From where to where? If the capacity of prisons is increasing in one country, if the rate is increasing, there is no healthy development here. In the 26th term, we've been here for about a year and a half, eight prisons in total, and I have his list right here. And those wandering prisons aren't where too many complaints come from. In fact, over 2,000 complaints came to the Human Rights Review Commission, but no active research was conducted. In this sense -- I'll tell you -- our friend says, "Enjoymental treatment, transactions 574, official, comes to the Human Rights Review Commission." There are 860 dissatisfaction with judicial decisions, 204 from health problems, 207 from physical conditions. An example from Sincan Women's Prison: The child is 30 days old, he needs normal shots. They take the child from the mother, the mother is in prison, they take the child to the clinic, he comes hours late, and there are two separate vaccines. Mom says those vaccines were wrong, so there's trouble. Why can't a friend, a mother, be taken to a health clinic with that child? There's no way to vaccinate the area of the prison there. We don't have a chance to explain this with any law, any morality, any international contract.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0051par0069	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0050par0070	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0052par0071	Mr. Tanal, complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0050par0073	I'm finishing. Thank you, Your Honor. Now, dear friends, this, for example, is 17 days in Sincan Prison where the baby has been in custody, fifty-three days in detention, and after 17 days in custody, the mother's milk can't be given to the child. Well, isn't that cruel, inhuman, degrading, humiliating, insulting, and insulting in the 2 and 3th Articles of the Execution Act, in our penal code, if you don't give mother's milk to a child for 17 days in detention? So our penal code is perfect, there's no shortage, it can be improved even more. But one of our late teachers used to say: "A bad law is good in the hand of a good enforcer; a good law is bad in the hand of a bad enforcer. " Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0053par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Second and final speaker against the group proposal, Ankara MP Jülide Sarıeroğlu. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0054par0085	Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party following the HDP Group's group proposal for Van T Type Prison. At the very beginning of my words, I would like to ask John Efiloglu, who was a martyr in Operation Fırat Shield yesterday and who was sent away on his last journeys today, to ask God's mercy to my brother, Mahmoud Al-Kadhan Kılıç, Gökhan Kılıç of Adana, Tarık Koçoglu of Kayseri, Hope Aytekin of Karabük, and to my own district of Ankara. On the other hand, today we received painful news about Operation Firat Shield, that we had five martyrs, that we had wounded. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, and I ask patience for their families and for our mighty nation. Again, I wish to heal our wounded brothers and our veterans. On behalf of our group, our Ankara MP, Mr. Aydın Ünal, has conducted a very comprehensive assessment of the group proposal. You know, yesterday we started a law discussion on free zones, which is the focus of our agenda, and the next session, we're going to carry out CHP's group proposal. In that sense, I'll keep my promises very limited. Our Human Rights Review Commission is doing extensive work on the issues of the HDP Group's proposal -- under the roof of our parliament. In this sense, 7.311 applications have been made to our Commission during the 26th Legislature. Of these applications, 2,790.... are related to criminal execution institutions. A review of these has been conducted by our Commission on 2.491. There are 155 applications for abuse on the HDP Group proposal as well as 8 for torture. The Human Rights Review Commission, you know, is to be briefed on work procedures and applications taken primarily. Then, in some cases, the Ministry of Justice has been informed of the issue in order to open an administrative investigation, followed by proceedings in the form of a criminal complaint against the republic's prosecutor. In this context, I'd like to say that our Human Rights Review Commission has been meticulously involved in its work. Again, under our Human Rights Review Commission, we have the Criminal and Prisoner Rights Subcommittee, which conducts their work on prisons. Our commission continues its study of these prisons in Balıkesir today and also yesterday. During 2016, he paid a visit to the Ankara Open Criminal Execution Board. Bakırköy has made visits to the Women's Closed Prison institution, Tekirdağ Prison Foundation, again to Kırkkale F-type High Security Closed Correctional Institution, Eskişehir Correctional Institution, İstanbul School of Children's Education and Umraniyede to the E and T-type Closed Prison Institution. He continued his studies in 2017. Again, today, there are two applications for HDP People's Rights Review Commission (HDP) on individuals and on torture and abuse related to torture and abuse on the subject of HDP Group proposal. I'd like to point out from here that these applications will be evaluated, carefully examined. Generally, since the day we came to power, regulations for criminal execution institutions are being carried out with great precision, and studies are being carried out to ensure that both the physical conditions and all the resources are made worthy of human dignity. I would like to point out that our practices in all criminal execution institutions -- especially in the last part -- are in accordance with international norms, which are being carried out under the law, the regulations and regulations, that torture and abuse of prisoners are absolutely out of the question, and are approached by the zero tolerance principle. On the other hand, if there are such concrete claims or applications -- and there has been a review of our Ministry of Justice on the issues of the group's proposal today -- and a press statement on the issue -- I salute the entire General Assembly, saying that there is absolutely no such thing as the following individuals -- whether in these types or in applications, we need the Ministry of Justice, our Commission for Human Rights, without exceptions and without exception, are doing the necessary examinations with the principle of the group. Have a good day at work.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0055par0095	Thank you, Mr. Sarıeroglu.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0056par0098	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit02spe0055par0099	I'll submit the group proposal to your votes, but there's a roll call; we'll do the roll call. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Yımım, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. All, Mr. Altay, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Bırır, Mr. Kerülcuoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Thursday (9/2/2017), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 15/1/2017, the parliamentary research motion for the Turkish Parliament's chairmanship was given (1034 rows) in order to determine the measures that must be taken by the servants, Özkan Yılim and his friends, to investigate the problems of the clients. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Thursday (9/2/2017/2017), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is Mr. Özkan Yım. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear Yım, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0057par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends and all my fellow citizens who follow us, I wish you a good day. Yes, dear friends, unfortunately, yesterday, five of our men and five of our soldiers were killed in El Bab. I offer my blessings and my condolences to all five of our fallen soldiers and their families, and I wish them patience. In the same way, yesterday, a new law was passed concerning the closure of departments under the Law of 687. I also want to tell them to get well, knowing that there are a lot of teachers who work at the study center who are going to be out of work. I hope the government returns from this wrong decision as soon as possible, and it won't put these teachers out of work. And I offer them my respect and love. Dear friends, today is about our motion. The first of the chosen are, you know, valued chiefs, and the highest office is the presidency. I say to our high-value chiefs and you, my fellow lawmakers and all of our fellow citizens who have been watching us, especially to our brothers and sisters, our esteemed chiefs, you have many, many serious problems in customs. But 35 times, each time, around 400 times, the headman gathers to Fivetepe. And I would especially like to point out that the problems of the Mukhtars are not solved by gathering the Mukhtars to Fivetepe. Before we get into the major problems of our Mukhtars, I'll give you the information first. According to information from the Mediterranean, Turkey's Mukhtars Confederacy Chairman Hussein has a total of 50,192 chiefs in Turkey. 641 of them are female chiefs. From here, I give my regards and regards to all of our chiefs, but especially to our ladies chiefs. In all, we have 50,192 head of staff in our country, including 31,963 residents and 18,219 village chiefs. Dear friends, our chiefs have so many problems that before their main solutions, I'm going to tell you about their main problem. After about a week of work with my friends, we reached out to all of our chiefs' names and cell phones, and we sent them all messages, and many of our chiefs returned. I'm going to give you a few examples of one of our headsmen, especially a few of the main hotlines. Like any man, the chiefs have their own political views, even though they can't. Unfortunately, if his political views do not apply to the local government or to the general government there, they have highlighted that there were no jobs done by the trustees and by the county general Assembly, and that there were no roads and no jobs done by water. I want to make this very clear from here, dear friends. Several of our chiefs from the bortum area called, stating that the guards in their own village were being sued after a certain time because the shepherds could not receive their money from the village budget, and that even the village's assets were being impounded. Likewise, the mayors from the Adana area called. I'd like to give you the names of these, but it's misunderstood, so I don't want to give them to you. Since many of our chiefs disagreed with their views in their territory, they explained in general the problems about any child's problems, which were not appointed by his wife. I mean, usually our chiefs are working their troubles like a postal worker. Reports from the banks, subpoenas from the courts, are delivered to our honors, and our chiefs are calling and handing over those subpoenas to them one by one, and spending phone money in their pockets. Besides, it has a legal responsibility. If they hand over this notice without the necessary signature, they can also face the law. These notifications are at 22 p.m. 00, 23. At 00, our chieftains say that they have taken over the chiefs, that they have done their work, that they are happy to underline what they have done. One of the most important things is that when the missing population wallets are removed, the demand forms can only be given by the head of staff. My dear fellow lawmakers, as soon as a citizen loses his birth certificate, believe me, the county department doesn't even give this form, or even the population's county office doesn't give it. Do you know who's giving it to you? They can only get it with a demand form provided by the muhtars. We've had a lot of trouble with this demand form. With fake papers, fake papers, fake driver's licenses, take this form of demand, post a photo of someone else, and... you know, some of our chiefs have even come to the judge because they've been dealt with with, like, unfairly taking out loans and so on. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that our chiefs are in serious trouble and face certain challenges. Now, I've collected four items for the general boredom of our chiefs. My dear friends, the wages of our chiefs are paid for. Last year, as of 1/1/2017, the chiefs' salary was $1,385, which was equal to minimum wage with our constraints. However, their wages are referred to as "payment. " As with all people, the chiefs are being repossessed due to credit card debt or credit debt. However, since the chiefs' salaries are passed by, the full salary of several chiefs in Turkey has been seized by 100 per cent. On the other hand, most importantly, we know that the SEC of all elected authorities has been invested by the state. However, none of the 50,391 chiefs are invested by the government. Our mayor is trying to get it out of his pocket, but most of them can't. What's going on? When he's sick, his family, his wife, his children are sick, or he's sick, and he can't even pay his own premium, so he can't even be in hospitals. Unfortunately, in this country, refugees are taken care of, even our chiefs are not paid for by the government for free. On the other hand, our chiefs, you know, they're trying hard, they want to do something in their village, they want to do something in their neighborhood, especially in the mosque, on the mosque wall, in the mosque, in the village room, etc. He buys cement, stones, bricks and so on and so forth, unfortunately, he pays all of them for the VAT and the U.S.V. numbers. That's what our Mukhtars demand, and I think it's supposed to be: just as we've removed the VAT in the white stuff, the VAT, the VAT, the needs of a peasant in the mosque, in the school, in the village room, we demand that the mayors be given the right to receive without VAT. On the other hand, dear friends, especially as soon as I've highlighted, the SECs need to be invested by the state and their right to retirement, as well as health insurance. Now, while our chiefs are working, you know, especially in villages and mountain villages, they're taking weapons to protect the village, the village, and they're getting weapons licenses. You know, the price of carrying a gun license is too high. Our mayors don't pay for this gun license as long as it's on duty. However, their duties are one or two periods or more; they have to pay for the registration, tuition of the weapons they received after their completion. Dear friends, how is a person who can't retire going to pay for a $2,3,000 gun license after he's finished? For that reason, we would like to ask that after the service of our high-value chiefs, the gentleman's weapon's licenses be free for the rest of his life. Many of our village chiefs don't have more than 1,385 TL, so they're both farmers and animals. You know, there's no support for farmers when they're farming, which is not worth the grain they produce; the milk they grow, the milk they feed, unfortunately, is 85 to 90 cents. As I said before, we live in a country where milk is cheaper than water. These are the main problems of our mayors. From here, we claim the rights of our chief officials, who were originally elected. I salute this motion with respect and love to all of you, especially the ruling party, the AK PARTI MPs, and wish this motion to pass. Have a good day, have a good day.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0058par0047	Thank you, Mr. Yum. Adana MP Muharrem Varlı is opposed to the group's proposal. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0059par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to state from here that the Republican People's Party's motion is that even if we take a vote against it, we'll vote in favour of it, and it's the right motion, it's the right research motion. Of course, we've had to take a stand against him under the Civil Code, but I'd like to point out that we'll be in favor of it. Our Mukhtars are doing some very important work. I mean, in the village, especially in the villages that haven't lost its corporate personality, the choice of mayor is very heated. Sometimes there's fighting, sometimes there's running for office, because the chiefs are governors, governors, prime minister, presidents, everything in that village. The patient runs to the headman, who has a funeral, and every citizen who needs to be provided from the governor's office is running to the mayor, waiting for the headman to solve these problems. The gendarme will send papers, wait for the letter from the headman, or the police station will send papers, and expect the return of the document from the headman, and the headman will have to find a solution for them. I mean, chief, he's always in charge, but chief, he's the one who doesn't get what he deserves. So, I'd like to give you an example from my own constituency: 50,000, sometimes 100,000 voters in a neighborhood. Here, our chosen chief of staff begins his mission. Again, a town with 3,000 populations will have a mayoral election, where the mayor will take office. He's got a car in office, he's got a driver, he's got funds to satisfy all kinds of needs, he's got all kinds of values that he can use more financially than we can use in terms of social life. But, unfortunately, when you're comparing 50,000, maybe 100,000 voters to 3,000 elected voters, there's a huge gap between you and a elected mayor. Here, I wanted to give you all an example to give the chiefs what they deserve. Now, a improvement has been made, of course, and we thank those who have done it, but this recovery is not enough. I mean, it's impossible for the chiefs to go to town every day from his neighborhood or village, where, sir, to follow his constituents' job, to maybe feed the people he's taking with him there, to have his car fueled, his gas, his gas, my dear friends on this salary. For that, our chiefs' salaries must be improved. Despite being seen in the status of a civil servant, they are not covered by the state, unfortunately. With their salary, the Mukhtars will see to it and provide for people's needs -- pick up their patients, take them to the hospital, burn them up, feed them gas, if necessary -- and pay their insurance from their pockets. Therefore, there is such a victimhood, and this sacrifice must be resolved at once. Anyway, in the National Movement Party's election statement, we had commitments at the point of improving the salaries of our chiefs, which were considered insured, but when power is Justice and Development Party, we call them now, and we say, "Please make this improvement. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you're listening, please make this improvement. Our Mukhtars are doing some very important work. Let's take care of our mayors, protect our chiefs. They're really, as I just said, both the mayor and the president of a village or a neighborhood, and everything, and he's the chief there, everything's expected of him. So let's help our chiefs in that sense. Our speaker friend just told us that during the mission, the managers don't pay for their gun licenses, but they have to pay for gun licenses after they've finished their duties, which they have to do. And we need to set it up with the law, which means that when our chiefs are doing important tasks like this, when they've put such important responsibilities on our chiefs, we need to make sure that they don't pay for licenses for life, because they're also suffering a lot, chiefs. Again, all the village chiefs used to have corporate authority. E, now, with this big city law, even though he's the village chief, this corporate personality has been removed, so the chief can't do anything for himself or his village, he's going to have to wait for everything from the city. But he's got the means, he's got the income of that village, he's got to get everything done by the city while there's work to be used or done by that village. The mayors, I think we need to give the village chiefs back their particular corporate personality, and we need to resolve the victimization of this gun license as soon as possible. The Mukhtars have these expectations from us. My dear friends, again, the chiefs are not delegates of the agricultural chamber and the irrigation units, so when the chiefs are doing all sorts of tasks there, they put a chest for the formation of delegates, even the primary choice, or when they're making a choice between the people in that village, they're not members of this area, of course. We need to make a legal arrangement on that as soon as possible to make our chiefs commissioners of the agricultural chambers and irrigation troops. That would be an important development, in favor of our chiefs. Our friend just mentioned it, but it's a little more superficial. It's about these postal papers, they take them, they deliver them, they don't receive them, they don't accept the notification. He's from an executive court, or, sir, he's from another court, he's grounded, he's being served, he's being served, he's not taking the notice. They're giving that notice to the chief. When the Mukhtar gets it, if he can't get it to him, he's taking responsibility for it, and he's on trial for it. He's also on trial for this law. That's an important sacrifice. We've got to fix this, we've got to move this. I mean, why are we taking responsibility for another person, my dear friends? I mean, if he doesn't get his notice, why should the headman be responsible? We'll have to arrange that, too. We need to make an adjustment to the postal notification. We need to get our Mukhtars out of here, too. Now, we've called our chiefs the first legs of the local government. So when you actually look at the local governments... that's what Mr. President says when he invites the chiefs here, Mr. Prime Minister says, everyone says that the first leg of the local government is called. It's very important, but they're doing missions, that's right. But I mean, do we really give them what they deserve? Do we really contribute to protecting the muhtars, sir, that the chiefs can protect themselves or that the chiefs can take the energy, the time they spend to defend those people's rights, their law? No. The Mukhtar is probably being paid a minimum wage right now. Look, my dear friends, have you ever calculated the amount of money it takes to go from a village to the city, to follow the work of a man who has a job in the city, in the police, in the hospital, or elsewhere, to spend a day, working with him, if necessary, to feed them and entertain them? I mean, he'll probably burn at least $20 worth of diesel, probably get him to eat a $50-100 meal. So suppose he does that 20 days a month, at least 2,500-3. It's like a thousand lira that's already spent on citizens, chief. So, how much do we pay the chiefs? We pay minimum wage, and we don't pay their insurance. So 1,300-1. It's like $400, but at least $400 goes into insurance, so we have to invest it in Social Security. That's why we need to organize the chiefs' salaries. We have to give the mayors what they deserve. Mr. President calls the chiefs here, he does meetings, he tells them how important they are, he tells them how important they are, but we have to do it with legal regulations, so that they know whether they're really important or not. We need to do this. We have to get our mayors out of these responsibilities. He says we have to give them what they deserve, and I pay all of you respect.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0060par0068	Thank you, Mr Varli. In favour of the group's proposal, the second speaker is Mr Ahmet Yıldırım. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0061par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party in favor of the CHP's motion to investigate the muhtars. I salute you all. Frankly, chefs represent capillaries in a society's democracy. The capillaries of democracy in society, the smallest democratic cells are the chiefs, and the fact that they've been elected to work where they are, in our opinion, is more valuable than any of the appointed ones. It's even more valuable than the governor, who is the biggest Itaminator in the province, or the chief of state, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. At least he has the consent of the community within the borders of which he wants to rule. However, before I go to the problems the chiefs have experienced in terms of their rights, let me submit to the knowledge of the General Assembly that a process that has begun in recent days with trustees in municipalities has become more and more important than appointing trustees in cities, villages, neighborhoods. In just one last month, in the different villages of Hizan, Bitlis County, in particular the town of Hizan, it was the pleasure of the governor. On the one hand, let's, no doubt, agree with the rights of our chiefs, but in addition to that, let's not ignore the respect that we're going to show for the election of chiefs in particular, because political power has, for a certain time, begun a war against all social opposition who don't think like themselves in order to dominate this country. Because politicians who don't think like themselves are in the target, local executives who don't think like themselves are in the target, in the leaders who don't think like him, in the target, intellectuals, writers, painters, academics who don't think like him. An hour ago, we met with our party's MPs at Ankara University's Cebeci compound with academics who were expelled from the KHK. No matter how much hope they have for the future of this country, at the same rate, they say they have little hope left in the sense that this power can contribute to this country. This country will eventually come out into the open, with its academic and intellectual conscience reaching out for tomorrows, but a retired academic from the academics there -- who had come to visit like us -- said that it lived out of all the massacres that had been committed during the republic's history, except for Niyazi Berkes, Pertev Boratav, Behice Borans, Dil and History-Geography School. He said he'd been killed in 1956. The 1961 coup, 1971, September 12th coup, and February 28th massacres, but they all came back after a trial, where there was a little bit of law in all of them, where the judicial path was open. But do you know that today's government has closed its door to the academics and public officials they exported to, let alone keep the judicial path open and a fair verdict, to the public officials who were expelled from the Assembly with the KHK? 100,000 public officials can't get into that council? But he owns this House, our people; we are the nobles, we are the trustees. The House is closed to nobility, open to the deputy's conformism. What kind of mind is it that 100,000 public workers who have been exported to the KHK cannot enter the Parliament? So, how does a citizen get the right to file a complaint here with the Human Rights Commission or the Proposal Commission, thinking he's a victim? Where will they go if we don't keep the rights-seeking channels open to our citizens, as law dictates? For some time now, we have said that the judiciary has become political up to the throats, that the judiciary has become the stick of power, and until the referendum, this political power, which has been convicted in the conscience of society and will also be slapped by the people in the referendum, if I am right on the public opposition by the way of its politicalisation -- a policy of oppression, a full law terrorism. I'll give you an example: look, it was a month and a half ago at the Diyarbakır Courthouse. The High Criminal Court is now in session. A court of one-and-a-half months -- anyone who knows a little bit of law, knows the courts -- is at least a court of file density. The indictment of our co-Chair, Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş, was accepted in that court last week, and the court, which agreed, gave the court a trial date three months after the arrest of our Co-Chair, three months after the indictment was passed. Now, imagine, for God's sake, there's no file density in a newly established court for a month and a half, how could he give a trial three months? Law regulations, however, order the first day of trial within a month after the Turkish Penal Code has been passed. Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, our other co-Chair, has been on trial for a month, but is seeking a court to accept this indictment. Diyarbakır Courthouse says let Ankara see it. He says, "Do I have the authority? Let me examine it." We know very well that both our co-Chairs and lawmakers, both the mayor and the mayor, all of our county executives, are subject to a political genocide operation in an index to the referendum calendar, and that their instructions were given to the judiciary by political power, and that they were planned in the deep recesses of the state and government. Otherwise, how can a newly established court give a trial date three months from now? But we do know that the reason why our Co-Chair, Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş, was given a day for the indictment adopted last week was after the referendum was dismissed. Of course, the HDP has become the feared dream of political power; we are the party that has been in the way of presidential dreams for three years. And if not, why don't you consider conducting an equal referendum study and making sure of its conditions, prioritize? I ask: How does a court founded a month and a half ago with no file density give a day after three months in the indictment he admitted? There's only one reason: the operations were political, and the referenda was indexed to the referendum, as well as the hearings, and the evacuations will be indexed to the referendum, but the public conscience is something that -- let me be clear, a slap of political power -- many citizens who have never voted for anyone but the AKP -- will teach them a good lesson in this package, because they've been wronged, condemned to consciences in this last year. What did they say about the power over their trustees, the power over their municipalities? He said that the municipalities that didn't appear in any indictments, that had never been filed in any investigations, sir, had transferred money to the organization, sir, that he had dug a ditch. So let's say: Look, the first intervention, the attempt to take over municipalities began in October 2015, when there were no ditch clamps in this country, when the 18 members and co-chairs of Batman City were suspended. Was there a ditch in October 2015? Was Batman dug in a ditch? But it's not like that. It started with Batman, where there was no ditch, where there was no conflict, where the municipalities were averted, because it was the chiefs. I respectfully salute the entire General Assembly by saying that we have seen all forms of practice that mean disrespect to the Chosen and that we will vote in favour of the motion.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0062par0086	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The second and final speaker, Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu of Niğde. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0063par0091	Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate the problems of the muhtars. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, village and neighborhood chiefs are the foundation of our local administrations. The head of Village Law 442 has been appointed as representative of the state's corporate personality in the village and as representative of the village's corporate personality. He's also a public servant, Chief.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0064par0093	Then you will accept the offer, won't you, Minister?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0063par0094	We know the problems of our mayors, and our governments have done a lot of important work so far. We value and care for the Mukhtars, and we'll keep giving. In our hearts, Mukhtarism serves our nation with dignity. Our chiefs, the bridge between citizen and state, are our eyes and ears in local units. Dear lawmakers, the stable administration that has been in our country for the past 15 years has made significant improvements in the positions of our chiefs. A period of improvements have been made by our government in order for our mayors to be able to carry out their duties due to the law. In December 2002, the EC PARTY was paid $97, which was only $97 from before it came to power, while in 2016 it reached $1,310, which is now $1,406. Is that enough? Of course, we can't say enough, but we know for sure that our government is trying to improve both the funds and social security of the chiefs.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0064par0096	Social security isn't paid, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0063par0097	And it's good to say that the mayors, you know, they don't work under the NGO, they're like lawmakers. They don't have a salary because they don't have an employee, they don't have a salary. That's why they're funded, and they're being paid, and they're paying for it themselves. But we know that our government is working on it, we're confident, we're confident.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0064par0098	Come on, then. It's for the best.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0063par0099	One of the social security regulations brought to our mayors was the improvement of social security and general health insurance laws and pension rights for the head of the community. In terms of implementation of short-term and long-term insurance arms, the application differences between the village and the village chiefs working independently on their behalf and on their account have been lifted. The start of the insurance is starting from the time they were elected to be village and neighborhood chiefs. The end of the insurance policy for the independent village and neighborhood chiefs, in his name and account, will be cut off from the date when the duty of the chief of staff is over; and from the time when the owners of the service have started working again. Thus preventing a possible gap in the duration of the insurance policy. Dear friends, our arrangements for our chiefs are not limited to this much. The chiefs are now more satisfied with the services, as the village's basic infrastructure problems have been resolved during the EC PARTI rule. Our Mukhtars have never forgotten or denied what was done. Our mayors have been given significant improvements, other than the grants they receive and the regulation of social rights. The democratic participation of the mayors in the local government bodies has been increased in our time. The Association for Services to Villages has been allowed to elect representatives among the boards of directors, the trustees of the Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation. Neighborhood heads have been tasked with co-operating with the municipality to ensure that municipal services are conducted in accordance with the municipal requirements. The municipalities have been tasked with providing the necessary assistance and support for the needs and problems of the neighborhood and the chief. Mr. President, I'd like to discuss the important arrangements for following the demands of our chiefs. In 2015, a website was created by the Ministry of Interior under the name "MUBIS" for the electronic system of information to follow the demands. The Ministry of Interior has established the Office of the Mukhtars at the General Directorate of Mahalli Administrations. In order to keep a close eye on the demands of our chiefs, the mayors' office has been established in the capital city municipalities and the chiefs' office in other municipalities. In the governorships, one deputy governor, one deputy secretary general in major cities and one vice president in other municipalities has been held responsible for following the demands of our chiefs. It was declared Mukhtar Day on October 19, and was first celebrated throughout the country in 2016. It seems that our mayors have been strengthened in terms of their authority and their demands are of great importance. Dear friends, there are still 31,868 neighborhood heads in Turkey, 50,165 muhtars, including 18,297 village heads. Our Mukhtars live with us at their most comfortable times. I'd especially like to address the importance of our President's chiefs in this matter.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0065par0105	Mukhtars can't get their kids to take care of them when they're sick.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0063par0106	Since our President has been in office, he has welcomed our leaders from all four corners of our country in Ashliye. So far, the 36th District Convention has been held. Mr. President will host the entire 50,000 head of staff at the Presidential Chamber. So far, our 16,126 chieftains have been hosted in Ashliya, more than one third of them. Our chiefs who have come here have the opportunity to deliver their problems and needs directly. His problems and what he delivers are closely taken care of, and there is no doubt that he will be returned. This shows clearly the importance and value our President has given to our chiefs. Also, on the night of the coup attempt, on the night of July 15th, I am happy and grateful to remember from this place the martyred district of Ankara Kahramankazan, the district of Ahitown, the village of Ali Anar, and the martyred Mayor Mete Sertbaş, and all of our martyrs. For 15 years, our government has given our chiefs the importance and support they need throughout his power. All of our mayors' problems have been dealt with closely, with great distances at the point of resolving their problems. The value given to our chiefs during our governments has also increased the respectability of our chiefs within society and bureaucracy. The Republican People's Party's request for parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, to determine the economic, political and social problems and problems that our leaders are involved in, to take the necessary measures and to provide more efficient services to our people is not appropriate, I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0066par0111	Is that what this is?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0067par0112	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0066par0113	You gather the Mukhtars to Fivepepe, but you don't do their work.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0067par0114	Congressmans, I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0068par0115	The AKP said no.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0069par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0067par0117	Mr. Yıldırım, you have a request. You want it now?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0069par0118	I want it now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0067par0119	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0069par0122	Mr. President, today is February 9th; February 8, 1991, prior to the Gulf War, we know that eight political parties gathered together and formed a common platform for the Gulf War, and that our country did not go into this war, and that they delivered a statement in Istanbul; and I have some old newspaper clippings. Among the distributors were Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the head of İstanbul's Welfare Party. It is also not possible for us to give bonuses to any war that may develop in the Middle East. But the same President is following a political line that led to every conflicting environment in the Middle East today, causing the lives of the young people of our country to die. I want to express that Turkey must pursue peaceful politics inside and outside, that we will gain international prestige and that we will get a result that all our people in the country can be happy with. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0070par0125	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0071par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0070par0127	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0071par0129	Mr. President, Code 687 has been issued in the Official Gazette. Two days before that, on February 7th, the decree was issued under Code 686. There is much to be said about the content of these provisions, but according to our Constitution, the resolutions of the National Security Council are issued according to a mandate given by the Constitution and the relevant law during the decision of the Council of Ministers, which is convened by the presidency, and the vote of a state of emergency in parliament the following day. When read today's decree, it is stated that the meeting was held on January 2nd -- if there is an OHRK, there must be a Council of Ministers meeting in the presence of the President. Before that, a meeting such as this took place on January 2nd is public record. There's been a meeting on January 2nd, and it hasn't been held since. Within a reasonable period of January 2nd, decisions made at the meeting there are expected to be published in a rule of law. It was published in the Official Gazette on January 6, 679, 680, 681; then three more on January 23. And now we have written a decree in a law. The ministers say, "We have signed, we have made our decision." When did you do that? We did it on January 2nd, they say. Now, even though the Constitutional Court has denied its existence and its own authority, I am not going to inspect the KHKs in terms of time and coverage. Although it has said so, today, I am not looking at the Constitutional Court because the entire area of law is out of the law. I have just come to think of it in the area of lawlessness created by the Constitutional Court. The government has just signed it in January because there is no control, somehow, as if it had been filled with an empty check card. This hasn't been published in 34 days, outside the limits of reason. For example, why is it that today's material is missing from 14 articles that you said in the 6 articles in the KHK, two days ago? If today's item was decided on January 2nd, if it was written, why was it published instead of the KHK 6 two days ago? It's been used, and, in fact, somewhere outside the authority given by the House -- writing and writing -- that the transfer of power was abused, misused, and is now removed from the law enforcement plant, and it's very important to the ministers that a minister's signature is, they say, we've signed it in the past. Now, in the presence of two valued ministers, once, on January 2nd, in a meeting like this, if you try to read a total of 291 articles and additional lists, that's not enough time. These are being published at the meeting on January 2nd these days. On January 2nd, for example, Mr. Secretary... on a highly controversial issue in the scope of terrorism, an obligation to use the snow tyre today. Mr. Secretary, did you sign the snow tire arrangement at the meeting on January 2nd? If you signed it, why didn't you publish the obligation to use snow tires on January 6th? It's not June. If you see any public interest in this...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0072par0133	Let's hear your answer, Mr. Free, from the Minister.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0071par0134	Why was this published today instead of January 6th? A total of 9 KHKs were published from that day until now, and we talked about it all the time on January 2. They call it. Now, politics, this great House, the vows...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0073par0136	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0071par0137	What kind of procedure is there?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0073par0138	He's been talking for half an hour. He'll have an open session then.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0074par0139	Mr. Bostanci, this is a group of vice presidents...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0073par0140	He'll have an open session.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0074par0141	I can't interrupt you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0142	Well, how am I supposed to...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0073par0143	We get it, you ask, they answer.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0076par0144	There's a warrant and a profit tyre under the law?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0145	I'll tell you something, you've given the legislature of the House...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0077par0146	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0147	...he's putting a decree back in order of the law for thirty-four days.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0077par0148	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0078par0149	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0150	What am I gonna do? What am I gonna do?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0078par0151	There's no such procedure. You'll talk when you get here.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0152	There's no procedure like yours, and there's nothing like yours; it's unconscionable!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0078par0154	There's no procedure like you did.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0155	There's no such thing. It's our jurisdiction, it's our authority; you've gone, you've given, what are you doing?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0079par0157	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0158	That's no bullshit.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0080par0159	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0160	That's no bullshit.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0081par0161	Free, calm down.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0082par0162	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0163	Of course I will.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0083par0164	Aah!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0084par0165	Okay, do it by 60.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0075par0166	Of course I will. The man says: "I have obtained the power of law of the military. " On January 2nd...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0167	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0086par0168	A group of vice presidents will either take a word in place, or the context will come in, and they'll come out and they'll talk.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0169	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0086par0170	We can't have a conference here for half an hour.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0087par0171	You've been talking here a lot. This is our authority, our authority, this House.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0172	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0086par0173	There's no such thing, you'll follow procedure.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0087par0174	It's the House's jurisdiction.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0175	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0086par0176	You're waiting for the procedure to be done, you'll follow it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0087par0177	It's the House's jurisdiction.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0178	Please, I understand what you're saying, what you're asking, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0087par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0180	What you're doing here is a criticism of the government. Assuming that we as the Presidential Court have no authority to say anything about this or any knowledge of how this decision was made, whether or not it was taken into existence...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0088par0181	They should bring him to Parliament.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0182	...we now see and know that the two ministers are here, representing the government on this matter. So you've already made your point, and you've talked a little too long. If the ministers, representing the government, wish to respond to the criticism you asked or did, I will give them my word. But if they don't want to give it, we'll leave it to them, Mr. Special. I'm not at liberty to say, "I'm not at liberty to answer the criticism of Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0089par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0184	Well, at least that makes sense, Mr. Special. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0089par0185	Mr. President, when I said my last sentence, just because this terrible work is being deciphered, because it's being deciphered, I'm going to deal with this irregularity in your time, this contempt of the Parliament's mind, I'm going to fight the terror. It's not acceptable to someone who's offended by the authority to use snow tyres, and we made this decision on January 2nd, and we decided to do it today because the lie is being deciphered. It's not acceptable.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0090par0186	No insults, just criticism.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0187	Well, Mr. Special, please...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0091par0188	That's enough, Mr. President!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0092par0189	I'm the Vice President of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0190	Mr. Special, I'm gonna have to take a break, so please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0092par0191	Mr. President, I'm tidying up my sentence, cleaning up my sentence. You can take a break, he's in your jurisdiction, and I'm fine with it. I'm talking about the authority of those who aren't in charge.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0193	Okay, I'm telling you right now, there are two ministers representing the government, and we understand what you're saying, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0093par0194	That's enough!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0092par0195	Yeah, my last sentence...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0196	All right, say your last words. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0092par0198	Well, let them answer if they understand. Okay, if that's clear, Mr. President, let them answer if they understand.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0085par0200	Okay. Mr. Secretary will answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0094par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. The authority of the government to issue a decree under the law has been granted by the High Assembly. This is the authority of the government to issue a decree in accordance with the decision of the legislature. Plus, in all the laws the government has taken, the decrees are coming back to the approval of this House, and that's when it's being debated.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0095par0206	When? It's been months, he's not coming.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0094par0207	I will never admit this: "Sir, have you discussed the provisions of this decree, or not? " I consider it disrespectful to the government and to the authority given by the will of this Assembly. When the day comes, all the clauses of the decree shall be debated by the High Council, to the very last detail. If anyone has anything to say, he'll go up there and say it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0096par0210	What's Parliament's business, then, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0097par0211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0098par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0097par0213	Mr. Special, before you, Mr. Bostanci asked for a word, let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0098par0214	Yeah, yeah. I'm highly respected.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0097par0215	Mr. Special, I'll give you my word later. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0099par0218	Mr. President, thank you. In accordance with a claim of irregularity regarding the laws of the Special Government, he is speaking in a manner that is not in order. If we're trying to get someone to do it, we have to do it our way, or we'll contradict ourselves; that's one. Second of all, I didn't insult him. I'm just saying that his work is not in accordance with the way the House operates here. His Graces have come here in a rage, which I believe is a means of strengthening their words. That attitude is not appropriate. I mean, we all have claims here, we all have evaluations, but it's wrong to put anger in the back of words and try to create such a different ambiance over it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0100par0222	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0101par0225	Mr. President, I'm about to remind him of what insult you've made. Since I don't want us to be mentioned by that word tomorrow, I'll remind you in a moment. It's not true. He'll take a promise and say it. I heard what you said; that's one. Two: If a group of vice presidents are in a normal way, if they're angry with normal powers, if they're violent, they won't be able to carry it on their own. Yet, here yesterday, many times from the stand, with the same authority, innocent innocent people, mothers of innocent children, fathers of innocent children, unemployed, children left without a job, and their bread is being played with. He's guilty of one thing; he said no, or something. There's an abuse of authority. He's in a red-handed state today. What does snow tires have to do with counterterrorism? But, you know, I took this and I made that decision on January 2, if you say, "Well, if it's about security, it's in the middle of winter, and you haven't published it so far, now that you think about it, you go put it there. When I say that, I expect an answer from Mr. Secretary, and I say to the Minister, "Have we seen or not?" It is clear that it has not been seen, but it has been seen. But let the Minister know one thing: according to the Constitution's 120 ▪, the decree of the Civil Code states that the decrees will come to parliament immediately and pass through the commission in 20 days, if it has not passed through the commission, if it has not been passed through the commission, within a month. So far, 21 KHKs have come, only 5 ▪ have been legalized. It's expired and there's nine KHKs that haven't been here. Your group argues that there's nothing wrong with it. Kenan, what will happen to the unconcerned day of the Universe? You exploit it, and you bring it in, and you do not legalize it. The authority given to you does not mean that I used the no vote, that I should not be a follower of the authority given by the Assembly. I give you the authority of this High Council... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to fight the non-suspects they committed during that coup attempt.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0102par0229	Mr. Special, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0101par0230	Sure. Whereas you, the snow tire, the tire of something else, or, like today, don't take away the power to fine the High Election Board if the televisions are unfair to us in the referendum... which is not taken away from you. Where's the counterterrorism? On January 2nd, I didn't see them. If you say, "Maybe the government will confess to the statute of limitations, injustice, but you will personally protect yourself from a great, historic mistake." You've been authorized by two party groups to fight terrorism, and by the power vested in by the House, you're pulling out the snow tyre thing. You insult this House, you play with the mind of this House. From January 2nd to today, you publish the January 9th resolutions. If you believe that much in authority, you'll meet every week, with Mr. President's presidency, you'll issue a KHK every week. Then we don't discuss the abuse of authority, we argue about something else, we argue about keeping Turkey in the State of Emergency, but what you're doing today is a huge legal massacre in front of history, a constitutional massacre. Look, some of the things that are so easy to say here, and then it's kind of a bother, but...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0103par0232	Mr. President, it's morning.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0101par0233	...there are no such practices in the dictatorship, in the anti-touching Fascism. Don't do this, Mr. Secretary, don't be a tool, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0104par0235	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0105par0238	Mr. President, I'm going to make a very brief statement on the same matter. Look, on January 2nd, a prime minister who decided that the MGK had been convened and had been extended for three months since January 20th, asked if the MGK had been assembled on January 2nd, when a party spokesman who had not been arrested at the time had not been a political hostage. It was said that the MGK had gathered from here. So, I'm asking you now: here is the six-point decision of the MGK (MGK) which was collected last week on January 31, 2017, on the website of the National Security Board's Secretary-General. You know what he says on January 31st? The first MGK of the year was assembled on January 2, and the State of Emergency was extended according to him? 9 KHKs, published from that day until now, are nullified on the basis of the State of Emergency. Is that even possible? And if not, did you arrest Ayhan Bilgen for exposing it? It wasn't assembled on January 2nd, and the Secretary General of the National Security Board says so. The first MGK of the year was assembled on January 31st. The State of Emergency is nullified. This is my call to the citizens: This is a violation of the 3th State of State of Emergency of Emergency, and you must not recognize it. The State of Emergency has not been extended, there is no such MGK decision, nor has the MGK collected. That's what the Secretary General of the National Security Board said last week, January 31st. I would especially like to present this to the information of the House and the public. Perhaps that's why our party spokesman Ayhan Bilgen was arrested by the political government for exposing this.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0106par0241	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume the negotiations of the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, with the Law of Free Zones and the draft law to change certain Laws and Laws. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yesterday's unification remained in the voting process of the first motion given on Article 7 of the first chapter of the Law Bill 443, which was considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, to remind you of the motion, I'm going to re-read it and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 7 of the Law on Free Zones, number 443 be removed from the draft text. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0107par0257	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit03spe0106par0258	There's a roll call. We'll carry out the roll call, then we'll proceed with the voting process. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Hurriyet Kaplan, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arik, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Besheker, Mr. All, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Engin, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Tuncer. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0106par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ll. - Exposure Before the vote of Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın and his friends on the 7th article of the Law Bill 443 rows, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Free Zones 443, we propose and propose the amendment of the 7th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. Honorary Namely (Istanbul) and his friends In the first sentence of Article 7-3218 of the Interim 3rd Amendment (a), "the earnings of the taxpayers in production activities in the free zones, from the sale of products they manufactured in these areas," "in the free zones, maintenance, repair, montage, demotion, removal, removal, packaging, tagging, testing, storage, film industry services, audio and video activities, callcenter activities, call-Ge and R-Ge-Ge" to provide services and services in other areas of the country, all of which they have been providing services and services to non-employees in the areas of Turkey and other areas of the region. The second joke (b) of the second joke (e.g. the FOB price (including FOB production in these areas) and (a) the income tax, which will be calculated after reducing at least 85% of the total amount of services and activities specified by the taxpayers exported abroad, and by reducing the minimum income reduction from the tax on which the contractors are producing to those employees. The Council of Ministers is authorized to reduce this rate to 50% and raise it to its legal level. The Council of Ministers may use this authority to diversify, or step up, as part of the region, sector or field of activity, for strategic, large-scale or primary investments. Taxes that are not collected on time from the taxpayers under the annual sales amount will be collected without punishment, along with a delay increase." The second joke (c) included "actions and papers made concerning activities in these areas and added from the energy fund, " which was sold to the region after the declaration of stamp tax and tuition. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0108par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0106par0021	Tekirdağ MP Candan Üşeker will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0109par0024	Mr. President, we've been getting sad news for two days. I'm afraid we've received five more martyrs from El Bab. I regret to inform you that our people are paying for the wrong policies that have fallen into the furnaces. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and to his relatives, and to our nation. Mr. President, we witnessed another brutal massacre last night with an OPEC resolution. With this State of Emergency decree, 4,478 people were discharged with 330 academics, including constitutional lawyers such as İbrahim Kaboğlu, Murat Şüz. TEDUCATION'S YOU teachers, academics, have unfortunately become the new victims of an unrestricted anti-controversial hunt. Now I'd like to ask the AKP lawmakers, who are in deep silence, especially the victims of February 28th, and those MPs who describe this persecution as a pehlivan tephrika: Have you forgotten that your hearts have grown too attached to these wrongs to see injustices, or that the mute devil is silent in the face of injustice? Now, when you are wronged, when you are victimized, you will say human rights, but when there are opponents, when there are people who don't think like you, you will be silent, and beyond silence, you will not listen, you will not hear. And when did you become so fond of your own voice? We get it, you've stopped being victims, you've been promoted to arrogance, you've been promoted to cruelty, but you're doomed to shame, you know that? And I want you to know that you can't subjugate these people with such decrees. Sooner or later, you're the ones who'll be humbled. Look, if you look at the Zechariah Auto, which you once assigned to subprime cars, you'll know exactly what I mean. If that's not enough, turn around and look at the cruel pashas of September 12th. If that's not enough, look at the powers of February 28th. For they thought that they were owners of the land, and they were able to defame the innocent with their dignity, and they were taking away the people's bread, and they were arrogant, but they were oppressed, and so will you. Dear friends, when we look at these people, there's only one thing in common: they're all opponents, all opposed to the Constitutional amendment prepared to bring this one-man regime, but no one can say, "These people are people of the PKK." You can't tell anyone that they're terrorists, that they support terrorism. Your goal is clear, your goal is to silence everyone, silence the opponents. Now you're either going to be on your side or you're going to be eliminated. You're not saying that. Now you say: "You are either on my side or you are enemies. " But it is not a beauty that you are trying to do. You create a society with its smile removed, you want a rose garden without thorns, you don't leave a good society, you fade out all the colors. What will you tell your children and grandchildren in the future? What were you doing? What would you say when they said, I'm really curious. Now, these academics you expelled, these enlightened people, honorable, conscientious people, will carry your persecution in their hearts as a token of honor. (HPP) Like those who were 1402/11, they will carry it with the same honor as the defendants of the Peace case, because history has shown us that history has always shown that right and right have won because there is no one who is persecuted, and neither will you. I want to give you an example of Tekirdağ. You said, "Allah is a blessing to the coup attempt." You've been on top of all the democrats, all the opposition, all the leftists, and Tekirdağ, for example: This is the last of the KHKs, just because it's because it's against the regime of one man, you've made many teachers out of their bread, not the way you've gone. We know what you're trying to do, but this road won't bring you and this country back on track, and I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0110par0032	Thank you, Your Highness. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th amendment of Law Bill 443, which is currently in session, should be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Following the first sentence of Article 7-3218 of Article 3 (a) of the Interim Law, "the gains they received" in the first sentence of the term "in the free zones, maintenance, repair, montage, demotion, removal, removal, packaging, tagging, testing, storage service, and providing all services to those who are at the workplace, the law and the business centre of the business center, to those who are present abroad, to those who have been sent from free sites to Turkey in a form of service, and to those who have been given access to them in a form of foreign service, and to those who have not been established in the fields of storage service in Turkey. "b) After the minimum income tax is imposed on the employees of the taxpayers who export at least 85% of the cost of FOB of products produced in these areas, the minimum income tax is deducted from the tax on which they will be taxed over the inclusion declaration. The Council of Ministers is authorized to reduce this rate to 50% and raise it to its legal level. The Council of Ministers can use this authority to diversify or gradually increase its power as part of investments, which are decided to be supported by the sector and quality of the project, with strategic, large-scale or primary investments. Taxes that are not collected on time from taxpayers under the annual sales amount will be collected without punishment, along with a delay hike," he told SETimes. " Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connia) ▪ We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0111par0043	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0110par0044	I'm reading the reason: The main goal of the Law on Free Zones 3218 is to promote investment and production of exports, and the incentives brought by the law under that purpose are mainly aimed at producers and exporters. In this way, producers and exporters are given significant support for reducing their financial burdens due to employment. The revenue-stopping incentive is not an advantage for workers, but an incentive to reduce the employment costs of employers. Therefore, the employees will have no claim to this incentive. This arrangement aims to clarify the fact that the labour-based revenue tax block incentive belongs to the employer and to resolve the disputes in the application to ensure predictability. In accordance with Law 6745, it also opens the way for the free zones to support investments of special importance in terms of our foreign trade, which have been decided to be supported by the subject, sector and quality of the project. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. With the motion adopted just now, the 7th article of the bill is fully regulated. Therefore, there is no way for Muş MP Ahmet Yıldırım and his friends to adopt the motion to change the clause. I'm removing the motion from the process. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three separate motions on the 8th article, which I read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Free Zones 443, we propose and propose that the terms of the Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in the form of the Article 8 of the Law. Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Çetin Arık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last joke of the Law Bill 443 shall be changed in the form of a last joke and a temporary one. Ahmet Yıldırım Aycan İrmez Çelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the same clause referred to in Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed in the form of Article 7. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Baki Simsek İsmail Faruk Aksu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Kamil Aydın Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0112par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0110par0076	On the motion, Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0113par0079	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group for Article 8 of the Law Bill 443, which will change the legislation on the free zones. Reverend citizens, the Justice and Development Party, which has ruled our country for fifteen years, has stated that it is preparing this bill to attract international investments to our country. First of all, it's really hard to do that in a country where there's so much law and justice, where truth is brought down. Clearly, the AKP government has not implemented any social, economic and legal reform based on democratic principles, and this is where our country is today. If we have millions of victims across the country today, there is no need to look for the cause here and there, the AKP must take full responsibility for the power. Look, our pensioners and our officers don't get paid to live like human beings. In January, inflation increased by 2.46 per cent less than a month after the AKP government raised 3 per cent of our officers and pensions at the beginning of 2017, so the increase you gave has only melted from the first month. Judge and prosecutor's salaries have just been raised by 25 per cent with a decree of law, which is a $2.100 raise for some of the staff. Of course it's done, it's done, but are there only judges and prosecutors living in this country? So 40 million of our population is a judge, 40 million is a prosecutor, and you've only raised these two professional groups? As the National Movement Party, we believe that you should provide our officers, pensioners, all workers and minimum wagers with a fair increase in income. Today we also ask for tax cuts and incentives for the contractors and businessmen. When will you hear the citizens' rights, the citizens' demands? Honourable Justice and Development Party MPs, you have a different love for merchants and contractors, we know that, but if you feel the same love for all our citizens, let's discuss this proposal quickly. For citizens, we want a little bit of prosperity, not a grant land, not a pro bono loan, just for peace and work. We're a big country. After the earthquake in Çanakkale Ayvacık, we saw again that the only people who should get a cut of the national income are our plain citizens, weird citizens in brick walls, Turkish children who can't even put plaster on the brick wall. We're talking about the free zones today. Of course, let the investor come, and of course, our share in international trade will increase, but our citizens will not be left alone. There is a 30% loss in tourism. Thursday's arrival was obvious from Wednesday, and we warned you then. As the National Movement Party, particularly Antalya, we visited with a large delegation and presented proposals for solutions, as well as for you. I'm afraid you're too late to take precautions. Reverend citizens, we've become a country ruled by a government that takes back what you gave with a teaspoon. If the AKP governments had also read the reforms of their 2023 vision from the National Movement Party, our country today would have been a fair, peaceful, border neighbouring, technology-producing, quality education, and an attraction for foreign real investors to invest in the real sector. But the AKP took the easy way out, and unfortunately, it didn't even put a brick on it, taking the policies of the last coalition government that flattened our country in exchange for a painful prescription. If you'd listened carefully to our counsel as the National Movement Party, our country could be a truly shining star today. As we greet all of you with love and respect, I'm afraid today we wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who are also martyrs in El Bab. May their place be in heaven and their souls rest in peace. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0114par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last joke of the Law Bill 443 shall be changed in the form of a last joke and a temporary one. Ahmet Yıldırım (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0115par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0114par0099	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0116par0100	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 8 of the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of the Free Territories No. 443. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in the context of the bill we discussed, I find it necessary to address a few points regarding the free zone in my constituency, Mardin province. Mardin Free Zone 27/9/1994 and the Council of Ministers' Decision 6028 have been established and its borders have been established on 21/11/95. The Mardin Free Zone is located within the Mardin Organised Industrial Region on a gross area of 515,000 square metres. 51 per cent belong to private administration and the remaining 49 per cent belong to 29 local entrepreneurs. The GAP, part of the world's number of development projects, is also the only free zone in the Southeast Anatolian region. Of course, both the GAP project and the Mardin Free Zone have been implemented with high ideals and dreams, but at the point we're here today, it's pathetic. Mr. President, there was a consultation held on 8 April 2015 in the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey concerning the general issues and proposals for solutions of Mardin, the home of the Kızıltepe Trade Exchange before the 8th Trade and Industry Company, attended by then Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. At the consultation meeting, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce from almost every district of Mardin were involved and a joint declaration was issued. The emphasis made on the Mardin Free Zone in the Declaration is exactly this: the Marchin Free Zone is on the loose. There is a symbolic free zone in Mardin, but there is a local company that produces only detergent. This free zone has failed to create employment or to produce added value. At the same time, it is evident that the foreign capital entry, one of the aims of setting up free zones, does not work in the Mardin Free Zone. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are particularly sad about Mardin and the GAP provinces. Like the project of the free zones, the GAP project, instead of improving the region, has made the region's present problems more cathartic, and has become a hump. GAP irrigation channels and Mardin storage have not been completed or implemented. Again, in Mardin special, energy is not properly supplied. Energy supply in Mardin is problematic both in agriculture and industry. In particular, long-term energy shortages in agricultural irrigation have obviously paralyzed the region financially. Dear lawmakers, look, when we look briefly at the economic situation of the cities under the GAP today, we can clearly see the reality of the situation. According to the 2016 TÜİK data, Batman, Mardin, Siirt and Şırnak have been described as the highest unemployment counties in Turkey. Again, these cities continue to migrate at much higher than the Turkish average. Adding to what's been going on in the region over the past year, the GAP region has been facing massive economic destruction. In addition to the immediate suspension of all trade activities, the local people were left homeless due to the destruction of their settlements. Even one of the basic human rights is suspended. Dear lawmakers, it is unrealistic to expect that the country's economy will be brought to the ground by legal regulations concerning the so-called free zones, when our citizens are prevented from taking even one small step at a time when their basic security, housing, health and education rights are suspended. Once again, at the point of developing realistic policies about our real problems in government, I renew my call, respectfully greeting the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0117par0109	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Free Zones 443, we propose and propose that the terms of the Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in the form of the Article 8 of the Law. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0118par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0117par0119	On the motion, Mr. Erkan Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0119par0122	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 8 of Law Bill 443. First of all, I wish God's mercy to all of our soldiers who were martyrs in El Bab. And my condolences to our nation. At the point where we're here, we're all together, witnessing the efforts of power to change regimes, a process that hasn't been normalized; it's the opposite; it's getting worse every day. The dismantling of parliament, the amendment of the Constitution, foreign policy based on wrongs and concessions; officers, intellectuals and academics that we have raised hard and difficult, and a Turkey that is polarizing with fucking no. To me, the end point of the republic is the end zone. Among those who feel the same way as I do, I'm sure we have citizens who are part of the Justice and Development Party who are voting. Look, where do we get this idea from? Yesterday and today, many fellow journalists, columnists have rebelled from their corners; enough is enough to expel these academics, these patriotic, intellectual academics! They said, "The president is being deceived." They said, "There is a bureaucratic massacre." In fact, like you, they saw that it wasn't the way we were going. We'll put everyone in jail; we'll silence everyone, we'll intimidate them, we'll take them into custody. I'm afraid there's not a single example in the world that's gone too far and brought democracy. The solution to democracy's problems is just more and more democracy, not getting away from democracy. So I think we should all change the course of this country, which is imprisoned and headed into darkness for one person, when we can all increase democracy, freedoms, and better habitats under the rule of the Great National Assembly of Turkey. I'm asking if this movie is called the horror empire, and I'm asking you how far it's going to go. We also had to change the names of the KHK's people to darkness in the rule of law because each minute is a KHK, which is presented with decisions taken a month earlier each day, and the KHK, which is the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, has nothing to do with terrorism and the use of snow tires, which have nothing to do with security. A matter that can be published by a Ministry of Internal Affairs generalize comes with a decree of the law. The suppression of opponents is incompatible with democracy. Authority institutions may be attractive to authoritarian leaders, but it's a very backward situation for the country, and it doesn't end well. Everyone knows the ship's getting water, everyone knows the captain's lying, and everybody knows the dice are rigged. A country where a small minority rules the majority, and the entire majority is ruled by its will, will not yield a good result. When the day comes, the citizens of this country will answer for their wrongs. It's always been that way in history, whether it's right or not, it's a win-win. We don't want to break hope; of course, hope is the greatest value that we have, and it's the most important thing that keeps our fighting spirit going. However, those who feel that they will break hope must write down that their efforts are futile. It has been written many times in history that the empires of great horror were destroyed by the influence of a person who appeared in the darkest of days, through a domino effect. And finally, I want to finish with this verse: "How many things have come and what have they wanted? / Those who went were always like you. I say, good evening, and good luck to you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0120par0131	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the Law on Free Zones 443, which is currently in session, it is necessary to remove the 9th Article of the Law from the draft text of the 9th Amendment to the amendment of certain Laws and Laws. Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Spring Atila Sertel Yasar Charter Murat Minister Hüseyin Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0121par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0120par0145	On the motion, Mr. Hussain Yıldız. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0148	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who are martyrs in El Bab, and for the sake of our country, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. Dear friends, you know, on August 19, 2016, a law proposal was accepted in Parliament, and a fund was established with Law 6741, called the Turkey Entity Fund. Of course, this is also established in other countries around the world; in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Germany, Japan, budgetary surplus or revenues from oil, from natural gas, are used to invest in future generations. I thought that day, either we don't have gas, we don't have oil, we don't have budgets. The citizens of this country have made one of them mayors, made one of them mayors, made one of them MPs, made one of them presidents, given him a palace of 1,560 rooms, gave him 10 private planes and gave him mansions. I thought that one day I'd go from here to the world, and I'd bring one tenth of this money from Swiss banks, 50 billion dollars, and transfer it to this fund, and I'd make it up to future generations. But for some reason, all the investments of KHK and Republican People's Party, Ataturk, Ismet Innenu, Adnan Menderes, Ozal, Ecevit, and Ecevit...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0123par0151	Lies, lies.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0152	...Zirat Bank, BOTAŞ, PTT, Turkish Airlines Association of Turkish Oil, Stock Exchange Istanbul, TURKSAT, People's Bank, Eti Mine, CHAKUR, Milli Lottery all transferred to this fund, friends. With what? With the KHK. Do you know what the total corporate activity of these institutions is in 2015? $643 billion, dear friends. So you're creating a separate treasure, a separate fund. Think about it, all the money of the Republic of Turkey comes to one place, it's distributed there, but you, my dear friends, are creating a new treasure situation before you've had the referendum, before you've had the results.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0123par0153	It's all a lie.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0154	Yeah, it's a lie.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0123par0156	It's all lies. You're shaking it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0157	Now, do you know what you're doing? The Turkish Entity Fund is the evacuation of the state's treasure; it is the creation of a single man's royal treasure.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0123par0158	Lies!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0159	It is the disintegration of the state's fiscal union and integrity, the dismantling of parliamentary control.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0123par0161	That's a lie, too.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0122par0162	Dear friends, the treasure is one and belongs to the state. Therefore, government revenues are collected in a single account, and expenses are made from here. But you know what you did? You transferred those $643 billion investments to the fund. Let me ask you something. I asked you from this podium, you didn't answer. You've used three trillion dollars in 15 years. If you've been building these companies for 15 years, where are they? Where are your $3 trillion investments? Why didn't you transfer it to this fund? The tunnels, the airports, the highways, the bridges... because you didn't pay for any of them. You built it as a do-or-do, none of it belongs to you. Do you know that you are now building a second treasure... with the investments of what we call the two drunkards? Dear lawmakers, dear AKP lawmakers, when you really think about the men who were put in charge of this fund, what are your children asking you tonight? What about my dear father, what are you doing? You're giving our future into the hands of four people. Aren't you called? A 12-year-old boy e-mailed me, you know? Mr. Deputy, we sent you there. We wanted you to give us our rights, our country, the right way. But, unfortunately, you're destroying the country for the sake of one person's future. And a 12-year-old is questioning, dear friends. Don't your children ask you that question, dear friends? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I regret to inform you that the manager is wanted, the fox has applied, the interview has passed, how much do you want? They said, "I can't talk about laughing, give me what you want." The salary of the valiant Cloud, appointed to the Fund of Being, was a trade secret. It's all yours.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0124par0170	Thank you, Mr. Star. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 9th article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part covers the 10 to 15th article. The first speaker on behalf of groups on the second chapter is İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0125par0179	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the second part of the bill we discussed. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the free zones, which are expected to create sufficient value for Turkey's economy, have unfortunately missed the attention it has been waiting for for for for a long time and have not received the necessary support. It's a project that we're interviewing, that's still in negotiations, that can't afford the current problems, and unfortunately, it's still late. However, I will endeavor to express our views on the second part of this bill by reminding him of his promise. And that is why the fact that our free zones in operation have never been able to achieve the success they've been asked to attract investments, especially attract foreign investments, develop technological innovations, and increase exports is completely naked. When we look at the last five years, unfortunately, the volume of trade in our free zones is going back and forth. Members of parliament, as almost every speaker has expressed on this bench, the number of our free zones in operation is 18. Unfortunately, there is no activity in our regions, such as Mardin, which is not included in the 18th. However, the four free zones established during the 57th government, one was established in 1999, the other was founded in 2000, including the free zones of the Denizli and the same year. It was first released in 1985, and as an economic policy tool, the free zones were bequeathed to the economic practices of today's Turkey. However, it was later adopted by Customs Law 4458 in 1999 and was also provided to harmonise these areas with EU customs legislation. In the following years, organised industrial areas, which were first released during the 57th Government in 2000, then in 2001, and eventually in 2002, the industrial regions, which were introduced in 2001, and the laws of industry, in order to make this type of economic policy better, better, better, more efficient, have been established in order to encourage investments, in order to attract investors, and in the end, in the form of approved production zones. In this way, it is intended to encourage and enhance foreign capital entry. But again, as I just stated, when we look at our practices over the last 14 years, unfortunately, all of these areas have been ignored, and the economic losses here have opened the door to other crises in Turkey's economy. With this bill -- particularly in the second chapter -- the Council of Ministers has been given the immediate executive authority on land and facilities, and will then be granted permission by the Council of Ministers to establish free areas abroad by the hands of a company located in Turkey. Members of parliament, the financial system in our country does not provide enough financial resources needed by companies, and it brings two basic problems in today's economy, especially in terms of SMEs. One of them is the lack of access to the adequate funding of the COBI, the engine of innovation, and as a result, there is the issue of the lack of sufficient employment. The second issue is: Turkey's economy faces the problem of high debt in exchange for foreign currency, which includes all companies on the medium scale and several companies, especially large companies, because they have limited funding in terms of TL. And these two basic problems have led us to become more sensitive to external shocks that could be caused by sudden pauses in capital currents in the economy. These developments have caused large companies and exporters to continue to borrow in exchange for foreign currency, resulting in a limited reduction in the rate of dollarization. I'm saying this as an introduction, especially in the last two or three months, where we've been living, the extreme fluctuation of the courses... yes, there's a fluctuation system in Turkey, but this wave, whatever it is, has always reflected upwards as of last month, but recently, especially in the last week, it's caused a few cents' worth of landings. But because our domestic savings are low, the banking sector's need for financing, again, because it can't afford it enough, the problem that I'm talking about is that these companies, particularly medium and small-scale companies can't find low-cost resources in terms of TL is still going to be more serious. Well, if we're in debt, let's look at that painting briefly. Our external debt has increased by 222% in the last 14 years. As this increases -- I just told you -- the private sector's debt has actually increased dramatically. The exchange position deficit -- this is the one we talked about -- came from $6.5 billion in 2002 to $213 billion in the last year. Some of this debt is guaranteed or not, but it's not our debt, it's the private sector's debt. Dear friends, this debt has also cost companies about 2.1 billion euros of currency due to a fluctuation that I just told them about. Assuming there was an average increase of 60 cents in the wolf last year, 126 billion Turkish dollars in damage to the private sector, the small and medium-sized companies I was talking about have suffered damage. As our companies' debt increases so quickly today, their costs have increased greatly, while the opposite is a decline in profit rates. Dear friends, there are many other reasons why this growing stock of foreign currency in the private sector is a fundamental cause of vulnerability in our economy, but it is now one of the main reasons, and it is often expressed by all international agencies, who are competent, who are researching it. One of them is the International Fund for Money. In recent reports, the International Money Fund has noted that this vulnerability in the Turkish economy should be taken into account. The reflections of foreign policy naturally affect our foreign trade. Again, let's say we had 157.6 billion dollars exports in 2014, so put 2015 aside, and let's move forward a year, and last year, in 2016, there were 142.6 billion dollars. We have a serious loss. And we have $198.6 billion in imports. So when we put numbers in the middle, there's also a decline in foreign trade. Look, the other pen that affects our external source of resources or foreign currency, let me just put it to you right now, we have a serious loss in tourism. Tourism revenues have also dropped by about 30 percent in 2016, we have a $22 billion income, that's about $9.3 billion missing, and that's a serious loss of currency. These figures show that the economic relations of Turkey's economy have also been unfortunately reduced, and our position, our share in the world economy, has also been reduced. Dear MPs, we always say that the National Movement Party Group is always ready to support constructive proposals and drafts. I wish you all the best in this way, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0126par0194	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Second speaker for the groups, İstanbul MP Didem Engin on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0127par0198	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our exports have been stuck on $140-150 billion tape for years. Foreign direct investments in our country have, unfortunately, dropped by half last year. 44% of direct investments, unfortunately, come from selling real estate to foreigners, so investments that will create jobs are getting smaller every day. Turkey is now listed as one of the most risky three countries in developing countries. Credit rating agencies are lowering our country's grade and no longer calling it an investment-able country. On the contrary, we are faced with the lack of economic and technological leadership in the world to address the problems of the people's staff, who alone rule our country, who are supposed to take revolutionary radical steps to bring economic resilience, but who are tired, lost their excitement and dynamism, who are just distracted from the agenda of the people's presidential ambitions. The bill for the amendment to the Law on Free Zones, which we discussed in parliament today, is a very clear example of this situation. It's designed for so-called free zones, but look, what issues that are not related to each other are attached to this bill: First of all, as with every incident with a runt in it, the AKP is in a hurry, so there is a rush of publicisation; there is a necessity for AKP laws; and there is a reflection of AKP's mindset on this bill. The bill includes land and buildings dedicated to the use of the Turkish Armed Forces in a quiet hurry to publicisation. We have seen that the Ministry of Economics has not made serious preliminary preparations for which institutions will be considered on this issue, but the AKP Group remains in the position to draft three amendments to the relevant clause. The bill from the ministry states that the General Staff and the Ministry of National Defence have separate views for the land and buildings dedicated to the use of Turkish Armed Forces. During the commission talks, a motion came from the AKP Group, which was the first motion and was taken out of this sentence, and there is no need for the opinion of these two institutions on the grounds of the grounds. A second motion came in five minutes before we even started discussing this motion, and this second motion came, where only the view of the National Ministry of Defence was called. The reason was left the same as the previous motion, but the copy-making method. Following my warnings to Mr. Minister and AKP lawmakers, the AKP Group was forced to draft the third motion to correct the wrong, draft this third motion and redesign it. The AKP, which drafted all three of these proposals, has been running our country for 14 years alone and aiming for strong Turkey. In order to show what should not be done in the draft of a law, this bill can be read as a case study for students as well as for the preparation process and for the commission. Another issue, which has nothing to do with the free zones and is added to the bill by a sudden motion, is the liquidation of all sectoral advertising groups to increase exports. All groups such as the Skin Credit Group, the Nut Credit Group, the Machine Credit Group have been purged and replaced by Turkey's Promotion Group has been added to the bill at the last minute. In a sentence, such as pulling a rabbit out of a hat, Turkey's Credit Group was formed, and a sentence created its budget. No analysis has been presented as the basis of the decision, not the opinions of relevant advertising groups and exporters, nor is it a consistent reason to explain its purpose. It is unacceptable that our exports, such as branding and advertising, should be handled and evaluated in many ways, while this bill is practically compressed into it. As a member of the commission, I have been compelled to express this bill and the drafting of the motions, and to express it many times during the talks that I have found the way to address the issues unofficially. This is how we discussed these issues in the Commission, which is very important for the future of our country, so think about the other laws that are being drafted. Now, I ask the government: Is this how you're going to build the mighty Turkey? Is this how you're gonna make our country one of the top 10 economies in the world? Is this how you're going to increase our exports to $500 billion in 2023? Is this how you re-enact investments that have come to a standstill? No matter how hard you try to sell your dreams, everyone will soon see that the king is naked, as in the story of the naked king. While we need to deal with our economic problems in a broad way, the House has only been working until morning, unfortunately, for presidential ambition. In my speech at the General Assembly on the Constitutional Amendment proposal, I said no matter what arguments you decorate, you will not be able to change the fact that this path is steeped, you will never be able to coat the sun with clay. (CHP clapping in rows) The proposal that you rushed from Congress began to be debated in public, and the paints that you decorated began to fall out one by one. You are now trying to silence those who say "No" in every corner of Turkey so that the proposal will not be discussed in public as well as in parliament. No. By trying to detain young people who sing, by spraying pepper spray, by referring to everyone who says "no," the country is at risk of division if the presidency doesn't come. By putting a stake under the name of the president, you're very mistaken if you think you can turn our country into an open-air prison, by exporting thousands of academics, artists, and evacuating the universities, if terror comes to an end. You owe our people an apology for all you've done, sorry. Every chance you got, you said the people made the right decision in the chest, and now you're afraid that our people will find out the truth about your proposal. Yes, you're afraid, because soon your tactics will fall, and the truth that you're trying to smuggle out of our people will be revealed. Now you're telling our people that there are problems in economics, domestic and foreign policy, for a stronger Turkey, without questions, without questions, without supervision, provide us with powers that have never been seen in any democratic country so that we can save our country from its problems. In short, you're trying to sell a new dream. Don't you think our people will ever question you and ask you if you didn't bring our country into this swamp? What have you ever had tied your hands to, and now you're asking for more authority? Who are you complaining to? Won't our people ask you, aren't you the one who's been in power for the past four years? Haven't you passed every law you asked the House for? Didn't you design the bureaucracy the way you wanted it to? What measures did you want to take to prevent the economic straits of our country today, and who prevented you? You're talking about the problems of the coalition. Won't our people ask which coalition has ever been in your way? Of course he will. When our voters are alone in voting, they will not only question this antidemocratic constitutional amendment; they will use their votes to see that there is no excuse for the unrestrained support given to AKP (AKP) for the past 14 years, and the chaos in which our country is now in, our economic problems, our martyrs in Syria, our plundered cities, the cities on the Ranta coasts, when they do the accounting. As Namik Kemal, our great country poet, wrote in the province of Hurriyet: What could possibly happen with a bidad and destruction of freedom? If you can work, you can take it away. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0128par0212	Thank you, Mr. Engin. The third speaker on behalf of the groups is İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0129par0216	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have, as it is known, entered the Constitutional referendum process with an arrangement that could lead to a regime change, but despite the fact that our country has been subjected to significant criticism in terms of the way, style, technique, and content of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which has changed 58 articles of the current Constitution and lifted 21 articles of the Constitution, it has passed through parliament. Without even a healthy knowledge of the scope of society, without free discussion in democratic environments, bars, constitutional jurisprudences, universities, autonomous professions, democratic mass organisations and people's opinion was quickly submitted to the General Assembly of Turkey and quickly accepted. In voting for the proposal of the law, the secret vote was violated, as you know, in accordance with a requirement of the Council of Parliament. The law proposal was submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly as the proposal of only one political party's ruling party MPs, and was adopted by open votes under the control of the party's leadership of lawmakers only two parties. The proposed law on constitutional amendment, unfortunately, is not required to limit the powers of the authorities, which are the most fundamental feature of constitutional law. It also lacks a founding parliament, which includes system and regime change, which is the body of the constitution and represents the process of political, social change, the establishment of transformations. The proposed law will be presented to the referendum in the process of the provisions of the State of Emergency and the State of Emergency law, which have been declared on July 15th over the coup attempt, but have been transformed into a means of implementing democratic, social opposition pressure and intimidation policies. A public vote, which will be used by the President, the government and the ruling party, as the State of Emergency continues, will not in any way win a vote in democratic conditions. You know, two days ago, Section 686 was issued. 330 academics from higher education institutions were expelled, hundreds of education workers, employees were expelled under the law. Can you talk about a democratic process when thousands of public workers, education workers, are being suspended in this manner? No one knows where this is going. Do the AK PARTY MPs in particular know anything about it, how far is this going to go? These practices, which seriously threaten peace in the country and society, have, of course, become unacceptable, and its size has now reached a level that will no longer be discussed. Making enemies of everyone who isn't himself means nothing but betraying the savings and values of this country. You academics, you slaughter the academy, you slaughter the science, you have no idea of this country's development, its future, and you will have murdered the future of this country. Dear lawmakers are the ones who allow the President to be party leader, so that the names appointed by the party president can be MPs, and the Constitutional amendment proposal to the President is, in essence, a path to the one-man dictatorship, which allows him to appoint all the high-level public executives, all the high-ranking public officials, and nothing else. The people of Turkey will, of course, say no to these constitutional amendments to the presidential system. The working people of Turkey, the poor, the oppressed, the others, all of our people living in our common homeland, will surely say that this amendment to parliamentary democracy, the balance between legislation, judicial, executive forces, the braking and control mechanisms, the capacity of parliament to be the only and most senior body for legislation, the functioning of independent judiciary, the functioning of public institutions on the basis of public benefit and liabilities, the public benefits, the service and control of autonomous professions. The party's party will say no to the amendment of the Constitution, aimed at enforcing legislation, execution, justice, state, politics, society and economic life as a totalitarian and almost absoluteist, autocratic rule over the whole of life. In order to protect the future of our country and our people, the republic, democracy, secularism, the whole of social life, our achievements in the field of public struggle, we will say no to the Constitutional amendment. We believe that we can achieve lasting peace in our country, the restoration of ancient ties between our peoples, the arbitration, despite all the negativity to build the democratic republic in our common home, despite all the injustices, injustices, and practices. And we have no hope of you coming back this way, but our people, our beliefs, their determination to fight, and their project for the future gives us hope. Dear lawmakers, look, no problem has been solved in the fifteen-year period of the EC PARTI, despite the fact that part of society had fundamental issues in government programmes regarding the problems of society -- no regulation, no constitutionally speaking, no other legal planes -- has been solved. The government has ignored any of the European Court of Human Rights' decisions on Alevilik. Alevis would, of course, carry problems we couldn't solve in our own internal law to the level of international law. These problems he's carrying, as a win in international law and international courts, the Alevis don't see it that way, but we have to solve our problems. We have faith and teaching. Our faith and our teaching have at least 5,000 years of history. We've determined the point where the zahir meets the bat as our magnetic north. Just as we Alevis respect different beliefs, other beliefs will respect the Alekis. We view this respect as a condition of mutual peace, brotherly association. Dear lawmakers, there is also a matter of mandatory religious lessons brought together with the Constitution of September 12th. Again, this was moved by the Alevis to the international court, and the international courts, the ECHR said: "You can't make this mandatory. I personally, as my party, as a member of parliament, people who want to take religious lessons should take religious lessons, if they need help in this matter, but if you subject people to mandatory religious lessons, if you subject the Alevis to mandatory religious lessons, the non-Muslim children of non-Muslim religions will become democratic and become a means of oppression. Let's form together the conditions of co-existence -- Parliament, a parliament with very important experience in Turkish political life. This country is a common country, this country, we built it together. It's a community of values, in the community of values, everyone has their work, everyone has their power. If we want this republic to live, this republic has to be democratized. When it becomes a democratic republic, there will be no mandatory religious lessons, and there will be no religious affairs presidency, an assimilation institution. There's also a serious problem with the Head of Religious Affairs today. It is not accepted by our Sunni citizens that religion is created by the Head of Religious Affairs, and they say: "We do not understand it ourselves. Let people live their beliefs freely. That's one of the reasons we're focusing on liberal secularism. Faith must be free. Look, friends, the founders of the republic, the founders, were not actually set up for this purpose when they formed the President of Religious Affairs. Especially in the form of an organization where this belief, these teachings, these religions can all live together.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0130par0233	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0129par0234	You can also see on the grounds of the law issued in 1924 that the President of Religious Affairs should only act as a co-ordinator, but today's Ministry of Religious Affairs has unfortunately turned into an assimilation institution. And I don't think an assimilation institution would agree, of course, with the Alevis and other groups of beliefs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0130par0237	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now, on behalf of the individuals, the first speaker is Alizığ MP Metin Bulut. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0131par0242	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Bill of Free Zones, number 443. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. You know, free zones are important tools of development and foreign trade policy in our country, with support services for free trade, the capacity to implement new technologies and employment opportunities. Our free zones are our investment areas, where bureaucratic transactions have been reduced, run by professional operators, with no domestic-foreign investment distinctions. The most important doors to markets in this precious geography, where the West lies east, pass through our beautiful country. With this strategic position, we can crown our country with our free zones and turn our country into a global production and trade logistics base. These provisions, which will be the complement of the project-based incentive system that was previously adopted in our Veteran Assembly, will hopefully live through this bill. We don't want any part of our country to be incomplete in achieving investment, production, employment and export goals. In this scope, when we look at this current bill, we see that it brings the investor ease to do business, and on the other hand, it serves to improve our country's logistical potential and to provide our country's free zones with an advantage over its competitors around the world. Today, the service industry in global trade is as important as the trade of goods and perhaps more important than that. When we look at the trade composition of the developed country's economies, we see that services are about half the volume of trade. In this virgin area, our country's experience is undeniable. As a matter of fact, our country, the world's 6th largest tourist destinies, also has one of the largest fleets in the world in road transport. Dear lawmakers, it is our responsibility to our country to use these opportunities more actively in trade. We are in a very good position to increase our share of international trade in many service sectors, as well as our young population and our current geography. I especially think we should refer to logistical services in this sense. We have to draw investors' attention to this point where global trade intersects. As a matter of fact, it is the experience of the Mersin Free Zone that has attracted the attention of the Singapore capital. Now, with this bill to the General Assembly, I hope we're doing the math for taking this one step further. This shows that these areas do not only encourage the investor who invests in this region, but also provide positive externality, allowing the development of the region to become attractive to foreign investors. The bill we're negotiating is primarily aimed at preparing a business environment suitable for investments in our country. In the short term, attracting foreign capital investments is intended to increase competitiveness and added value in the medium and long term, while supporting service sectors with free zone applications will also enable institutionalisation and opening to foreign markets. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings, I hope this bill will be good for both our country and our House.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0132par0251	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. On behalf of the individuals, the second and final speaker is Mr. Khakat MP, Mr. Ancient Durmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0133par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The government, who has been in power for 15 years, is passing us through days of mercy reading even the 1980 coup. Students raised by professors who were expelled from universities during the 1980 coup are today expelled from the universities by the AKP coup, with laws in accordance with the law. With the power of power, there is the greatest academic destruction in the history of the country. The tragic thing is, it's been carried out by those who say it's anti-democracy and so-called anti-plot. What if there was a coup? Patriots, democrats, progressives, intellectuals, opponents would be put into prisons, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be virtually dysfunctional, lawless, and headless executions. So, is it different today? Doesn't today's government put our people through all this together? The coupters are unknown, but their practice lives on power. The country's economic life vessels are being wiped out by morning decrees as the future of scientists is blackened by night decrees. And this morning, we woke up with a new bill of law. When we looked at its content, we saw that the embezzlement barrier had been removed, not for public benefit, but for the removal of the banks. From these provisions, it appears that the arrangement called the Presence Fund is becoming a looting fund. This mortgage fund, called the Presence Fund, is now seen as a public project to fund the values of the republic to the side. With Turkish lira turning into dollars, this country has become a land of poverty, not of existence, with investors you've kidnapped. The AKP government's political preference for the so-called Entity Fund is evident. This political choice is not for the pensioner, nor the worker, nor the minimum wage, nor the peasant, nor the farmer. AKP's political preference is to take the pensioner's, minimum wager's, labourer's, subcontractor's, villager's, farmer's table, reduce education budget, health, culture, art, and move our assets from side to side. The Fund of Being is a non-supervical project, with its lack of supervision, with its legality, with its organizational philosophy; wherever you look, it is unlawful and unlawful. In 15 years, state-owned factories were destroyed by privatisation of public institutions, and now you've opened a way to exploit future generations' assets as well. The republical values of this country, our national heritage, will be destroyed by the Hand of the Entity Fund, and destroyed by the ego of one person. Beytülmal is no one's farm. This practice is the unsupervised plunder of treasure goods. This illegality must be returned immediately. Dear lawmakers, every morning we wake up with news of a new disaster; you strike science at night; you adjust the referendum in the morning with another decree, regime change, unjustly competitive legislation. Remember, victory by persecution and injustice is never victory. The High Election Board will not be able to punish private radio and television broadcasts that violate the principle of equality, so the supporting media will continue to promote power as much as they want. As it was yesterday, all the resources of the state will again be unfairly submitted to the command of power. The Faculty of Theatre, Political and Communication of Ankara University's Faculty of Language and History-Geography, has been officially closed with a decree issued under the law. Today, the President wrote a self-criticism by saying that we were weak in art and culture. Good morning, Mr. President! Over the years, you've been raised with great effort, creating great works of art in the theatre, you've taken teachers from a mission, appointed the rectors, who have no contribution and no science, and you've shut down the theatre departments in these schools, and of course we'll be left behind in art and culture. On the other hand, the sons of their homeland who love their homes in El Bab have become martyrs, while the palace and its avant-garde continue to lecture the eunuchs over this sea of blood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I will.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0134par0262	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0133par0263	After what you've put this country through, our wish is to give up the haste to ensure their future in the state of emergency, in the presence of these lawless and dead, before we sacrifice more of our children to this wrong policy, and to make sure that the future of our country is blessed and blessed, and I salute the High Assembly, our beloved people.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0134par0265	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 15 minutes. I'll give my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Half of the time, which is seven and a half minutes, belongs to lawmakers, the remaining seven and a half minutes belong to the government and the Commission. Now, in turn, I'm going to turn on the microphones for the MPs to ask questions. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0135par0271	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions were for Mr. Veysel Eroglu, an honorary citizen of Adıyaman. He was just here, and I hope that our other Minister, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, will deliver my questions to him. 1) Does Adıyaman know that Adıyaman was thirsty four months a year, surrounded by water? 2) Does he know that the images of our very few forests, the Herons, the wild goats, who were said to have been identified by drones, were killed and our forests were burned? It happened 20 days ago in the villages of Akçalı and Azikan. 3) Does Turkey know that its main plain, plain, Adıyaman (Adıyaman), is condemned to dry agriculture? How much of our land has gone into watery agriculture? 4) How do you view the approach that I make during the day to ban steelhan tobacco, a brand of people's only income?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0136par0277	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0137par0278	Mr. Secretary, there are thousands of people in our country who are Turkish royalty and are not citizens. Western Thracian Turks, our descendants from Bulgaria and the Turks of Ahikka are in this situation. We defend, of course, the benefit of every human being of the most basic rights of health. There's also an unfair practice on health care. In this country, millions of Syrians are being offered health care, of course, but these Turkish nobles who live in our country, who are not citizens, are not being given health care. Even parents can't even benefit from that, even if their children are citizens, producing and paying taxes in this country. Will you have a study of health care in this regard? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0136par0280	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0138par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a social facility in the District of Akçaqam in Düzce Province, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. There's free weekend accommodation here. Is it true that some people spend a week there for free? If so, who are they, whose relatives, what bureaucrats? From 2015 to 2016, until 2017, how many people were held for free? Is Nevzat Orhan the director of the same social facility? Is Nevzat Orhan the nephew of Nevzat, the wife of Mr. Melih Gökçek? How many people in the same social facility work there in the middle of winter called lifeguards, even though they don't have sports licenses, even though they don't have life certificates? How much do they pay? Is it right to have these running here when the pool season is over? Is it illegal for people who come to stay at the same social facility to listen without a court order? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer some questions about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0139par0284	Dear Liberty... Mr. Hurriyet isn't in the General Assembly. Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0140par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. The price of paying the sugar beets of our national, strategic product, which is the most planted in our country after the grains has been announced. The AKP government's current fee is 164 lira per ton, the figures from a year ago. It's 2015, and it's the same price. Despite the hikes to a number of entries, Mazota, the villager, farmer, and again the privatisation pool, the dynamics of Turkey's republican era, the sugar factories are now given to the asset fund, and we don't know if they'll send it elsewhere, but the Anatolian farmer is confused. I want this cleared up as soon as possible. The list of thermal cities was declared by the government. I'd like to know the reason why a rare thermal in the world with many thermal sources and also a lack of radon gas is not on this list. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0141par0291	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0142par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our young sons, who have died in Syria, and for the patience and patience of their families. Public enterprises such as the most important achievements in the history of the Republic of Turkey's Agriculture Bank, PTT, Turkey's Oil Corporation, TÜRK TELEKOM, Turkish Airlines, Halkbank, Milli Lottery, BOTAŞ, CHAKUR, Eti Mines Corporations, have been handed over to the Fund of Property, which is the most important in the history of the Republic. The head of this fund, which was exempt from audits, including the Court's audit, was given to Hero Cloud, who had no government experience, and had no integrity. Minister, does the real will to appoint Hero Bulut belong to your government? Also, how many Turkish liras will Hero Cloud receive? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0143par0296	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0144par0297	Mr. Secretary, there is a drinking water problem in the village of Doverek, in Şanlıurfa Siverek. Our citizens have reached out to us because they can't make their voices heard. Although they have repeatedly applied to all of the state's institutions, they feel that their most basic need for drinking water is unresolved and punishable. Although numerous promises were made during the election, not a single politician visited their districts after the election. It is a shame for the country that we have villages in the 21st century of Turkey with water problems, without even drinking water. Isn't it a contradiction that your government, who boasts about signing major projects, doesn't even solve a village's water problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0145par0300	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0146par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. My condolences to our martyrs, and to our wounded soldiers, I wish them a speedy recovery. Mr. Secretary, word on the street is that it was the Russian plane that shot down our soldiers, and there's conflicting information coming in. Can you enlighten the High Council about this, please, and make a statement?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0147par0304	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0148par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of people have been laid off by decrees under the law, and they have been cut off from where they work. Among them are thousands of people who deserve retirement. However, some of the practice has been retiring, while others have been unable to respond to its petition for months. Mr. Secretary, how does the practice work here? What is the government's policy on the rights of those who are discharged on various grounds, who are unable to exercise the right to retire, even though they have earned the right to retire? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0149par0308	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0150par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Although the plains, which the Ministry of Agriculture had previously declared to be a agricultural area, had passed as a large plain, unfortunately, they did not take Aydın to the great plain, even though it was Turkey's second largest plain. Mr. Minister knows very well -- he'd come to Buharkent. He'd often promised the people there -- about geothermals -- all of the Enlightenment plain, as it were, to the geothermals. I suppose, as I understand it, you're trying to destroy a city of 1,200,000 to protect five companies. Do you have any work on this CED report? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0151par0312	Sir, can we ask the Deputy Minister a question?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0152par0313	No, you can't.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0153par0314	You can ask, but there's no time. Mr. Secretary, the time is yours. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0317	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed in an accidental bombing in El Bab, which I believe was a mistake. May my Lord make your dwellings a paradise and your loved ones a paradise. And to our wounded soldiers, I pray to God for a speedy recovery. Mr. Star's -- of course, if I answer to the District of Aydın first -- but, in the end, it concerns the Ministry of Agriculture -- but, in the end, if it's the Plain of Aydın, which flows from its plains, from its mountains, and from the plains of Light, we're all sensitive in this, but we have to present our subterranean wealth in order to protect the environment, to protect nature, and to promote sustainability to the economics of this country. You know, in order to be sustainable, these geothermal resources have to be extracted and re-infused after they've been used. And without these, they're not licensed anywhere, anywhere, as far as I know. After all, this is supposed to be our country's extreme political sensibilities. And I know, I know, I know, I know, I know. And I want you to know that I will stand up to a countermeasure with all of you. With the decrees of the law - the question of the brave - we have begun at the end, let me continue - those who have been discharged, those who deserve retirement - not that they deserve retirement. If he's retired, he's out of the question. But if he didn't retire, even if the process continues, if he had sufficient reasons, valid reasons, if he was discharged, he would probably lose his pension -- as far as I know, he would also lose his pension. But it's the right to appeal, and it's the right to take any legal action. That's what Mr. Tarhan said about our soldiers from the Russian plane. The Russian plane accidentally shot our soldiers, the Russian President and the Turkish Armed Forces announced.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0155par0321	Is that possible at a time when technology has developed so much, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0322	Dear friends, that's the bet, that's the word, that's the official statement. And you say, well, that's not it. I say, that's the official explanation. We'll talk until morning. But it's a case that upsets us all. Of course, it's unlikely that there are such mistakes on the battlefields. The village of the Dove, which is called by Mr. Pineak. Yes, at this time when we are now approaching the first quarter of the 21st century, it is also the duty of our citizens to benefit from all the services of the state -- the road, water, electricity -- even at the furthest point in Turkey -- on the condition of being legally licensed, as well as by the state and local governments. That's why I'm going to follow this, as a former mayor, and that's what I'm going to be sensitive about. The question of Mr. Tuncer is about the transfer of public institutions such as Agriculture Bank, PTT, Eti Mine to the Entity Fund. The procedure is extremely legal, my friends. However, one thing to note in these statements is that the asset Fund is subject to control. The Entity Fund depends directly on the Prime Minister himself and is subject to the control mechanisms the Prime Minister will appoint. Also, if you look carefully at the law, the Entity Fund is also subject to the control of the Plan and Budget Commission. Plus, all of the institutions that have been transferred to the asset fund -- more than 51 per cent of the public-owned corporations, the OSCE or the Court -- are subject to all of those audits, never, never been exempted from anything -- will continue to be subject to these audits as public assets. Since he is not here himself, he has no such right to answer... he has not been brought to the head of the Heroic Cloud Entity Fund. Those who are the head of the Entity Fund are bound by the Prime Minister. We also have a friend named Mehmet Bostan, appointed by the Prime Minister, who is appointed head of the Entity Fund.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0156par0326	Is there a special assignment for Hero Cloud?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0327	Besides, there is no obstacle to the appointment of the Heroic Cloud to the Entity Fund. I mean, to be a citizen of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0157par0328	Mr. Secretary, you're shutting down the Prime Minister's office. Why are you doing this? Why is he using the Prime Minister's authority?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0329	Just as you and everyone who lives in Turkey, which is legally qualified, is entitled to be brought to the head of the Entity Fund until the end of time, I believe it is sufficient. Dear friends...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0158par0331	Were you notified when the fund was being transferred?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0332	We all know that, fellas.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0159par0333	How do we know?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0334	We all know that. If you look at where he's from, you'll see our signature on the official newspaper.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0160par0335	It's the signatures you threw away.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0336	That's your bet. I guess that's what happened to you, and we don't.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0161par0337	The signatures you put on the blank paper, on the blank paper.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0162par0338	That's why I asked you about the Constitution after you threw it away.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0339	Dear friends, privatisation, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0163par0340	My questions have failed again, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0341	Mr. Tanal, I'm coming to yours. Mr. Yilmaz, since I started at the end -- you said 164 TL about the sugar beets payment costs, I'll take a look. Our friends, by the way, as information... So in 2016, sugar beets were 190 TL/tons, 2017, 210 TL/tons, 10.5 per cent increase, our friends said as information. You check it out, and I'll check it out, because it's the same as last year. So our government, including the wages and salaries that concern our farmers, concerned our fixed-income citizens, has always paid attention to an increase in inflation. The list of thermal cities, you're right. We know that Tokat is rich in this regard. Together... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0164par0346	Madam Secretary, I'll give you two minutes. Please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's see if we can't get a lead on the thermal cities. Yes, Mr. Tanal. Düzce, Akçaabatta, Ankara Metropolitan...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0165par0351	He's a white man.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0154par0352	White husband, I'm sorry. As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I believe you will get all your rights as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Ankara, when you ask the Metropolitan, and they are obliged to give you this information. Now, what major cities or... The municipalities don't belong to any ministry, but the Ministry of Internal Affairs has a different way of connecting with a side connection, called the Mahalile Administrations. Otherwise, the capital cities also have an autonomy that means total localization. I think that's the way I want you to ask. About Mr. Kayishoglu's giving health care to Western Thrace, Bulgarian, Ahiska Turks, Turkish noble citizens, Turkish noble brothers, non-Turkish citizens who live in Turkey... let me put it this way: it has to be given. With your description of it, it's certainly something like this, those opportunities should be provided to our brothers. The 3 million Muhajires don't belong to us as well as to us as to our nation's resources and resources, as well as to about 450-500,000 children, if they are provided with school opportunities, health benefits, or other royal distinctions, but, of course, as a nation, I'm also going to follow in the sense that they have relatives on the other hand, so I'm going to follow them. Yes, Mr. Yıldırım was thirsty for four months of the year... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not acceptable, and on the other hand, wild goats being shot at by the thought of being human, that's all about the bet. BEHCET GREEN (Name) - Truth. I don't think it's real, but I still think it's worth checking out. Mr. President, thank you. The governor claimed it was real.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit04spe0166par0361	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 443. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 10 that I read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 10 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed in the form of a statement. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Baki Simsek İsmail Faruk Aksu Deniz Depboylı Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the requirements for the amendment to certain Laws under the Law and Law Laws, which are in 443 rows, to be changed after the 10th Amendment to the 10th Amendment. Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Spring Atila Sertel Yasar Tuğün Murat Minister Ali Özcan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current Law Bill 443 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Erol Dora Behçet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0167par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0166par0030	On the motion...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0168par0031	We're rolling.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0166par0032	The motion has been withdrawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the requirements for the amendment to certain Laws under the Law and Law Laws, which are in 443 rows, to be changed after the 10th Amendment to the 10th Amendment. Murat Minister (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0169par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0166par0041	İstanbul MP Ali Özcan on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0044	Mr. President, very valuable MPs have been handed over to the asset fund by Turkey's very large institutions, quietly, without consulting anyone, without consulting anyone. The wealth fund, the absence fund, some say the tightdown fund is the way out of the Justice and Development Party. (CHEERING) What presence do you take from whom and hand it over to the fund? If you're going to place your personal assets, Turkey can be saved. The Finance Minister said there would be an important actor in the market. Sure, it'll be the actor who broke the economy. Why did they make you Minister? To cover the budget deficit, create a planned and balanced finance and invest in the welfare of the nation, or to fund the allies? It's the first time a Prime Minister has self-determinated himself, and a Finance Minister is liquidating himself. Balanced budget, controlled budget. So, is there a control here? No. Is there an inspection? No. Any transparency? (No. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is there a court? (No. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are there laws? (No. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, is there a bidding law? You always ignore it, no. Not all laws, no.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0171par0047	But there's Jell-O, Jell-O.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0048	You've drained our country with your unproducing economy. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says you have to put a bowl of water in order to draw water from the tulumba.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0171par0049	Who ran out of water?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0050	But, he doesn't know, you've already dried the water out of the well. (CHP cheers) That's not how the economy works. The Entity Fund has meaning to leave something for future generations in countries whose economy exceeds them.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0171par0051	They're heirs.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0052	In the past, people used to save money. We had piggy banks, you remember. But, do you have a problem with saving? No. You're a spending machine. With overpriced, unplanned and unscheduled projects, you have loaned our future generations to our grandchildren. The institutions of this nation are not your father's farm, you will know that. You say the last word, people. Know that the first word will be the last word, and the last word will be your people's, and no. If you transfer people's resources to the fund without asking the Parliament, the account will be huge, you'll be undermined. You're like traders who feel like they're going bankrupt, and they're smuggling money around, and they're funding themselves to be safe in the future, and you're doing just like them. You have appointed five people who are irresponsible and have no authority but no responsibility to the Entity Fund. Did these people earn a lira or lose a lira in their life? No. So, did he take any risks and trade in his life? No. Don't you think someone's fooling you again? The PKK has tricked you, the PKK has deceived you, Assad has deceived you, now Russia and America have deceived you... you still haven't sobered up. Is it possible that international economic power centers are deceiving you? Even drunks get sober where they fall, and you're still drunk. We weren't fooled by anyone, why are you being deceived? We haven't cheated on anyone in our lives, we haven't lied, slander isn't in our vocabulary, there's never a word, there's no humiliating people, especially the political party he's up against.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0172par0055	Mr. Ozcan, please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0056	Thank you. It's not in our language to insult and slander. Everyone has to be honest, politicians have to be more honest. Especially people who swear honor and honor on neutrality should be more honest. When we say these things, you sound loud, but Trump has been bullying Muslims for weeks, and you don't complain, you don't complain. Look, there are Christian people on the streets. They say we're all Muslims. The judgment is resisting. Be sincere, be sincere, be honest, don't chase after the eunuchs. There are no more Muslims, no more patriots than you, but stop and look in the mirror, the situation is weak and very weak. Now, if the President approves, the referendum will be held. You're going to use all kinds of government opportunities to run campaigns, pass the hard money on TV, spend it on TV, but you're going to be the best Muslim in words. And those who have turned over their property to Muslims like their father's farm... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just half a minute...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0173par0061	We can't give him half a minute, Mr. Ozcan. Please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0063	As for those who do wrong to the Muslims, those who do not speak loudly will surely answer before the people. Now you've got a fear of the media, you're afraid of the academy, you're afraid of academics, you're afraid of justice, you're afraid of politics, you're afraid of honest politicians, and now everyone sees that you're afraid of the public, but I have to tell you that fear is of no use at all. I tell you: this referendum will be very good; it will be good for the workers, it will be good for the young, it will be good for the academics, it will be good for the farmers, it will be good for the officers, it will be good for the decent, it will be good for the honest.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0174par0065	Yes, it will be, yes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0170par0066	So far, those who say no have not changed. Those who have said no to history have changed it, and those who say no to history will again change it. I wish our High Council good work. Tomorrow the House is closed, and may Friday be a blessing and a blessing.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0175par0069	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 10 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed in the form of a statement. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0176par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0175par0079	Congressman Baki Simsek on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0177par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Law of the Free Zones. Before we begin my words, I ask the grace of all our friends in the case, who have been brought to eternity, who are the founder of this case, Alparslan Türkesh, who are the founder of this case, of the forty-eight-year-old Nationalist Movement Party of Turkish politics, which we celebrate the 48th year of Turkish politics today. Dear MPs, the first law on free zones was issued in 1985 and was established in Mersin, Turkey's first free zone in 1987. In the conditions of that day, Prime Minister Turgut Özal will be Mersin Dubai, Mersin will be Singapore. However, the required support has not been given, and the expected development in the free zone has not been achieved. In the same years, Antalya was declared a tourist zone, and all of the state's tourism investments were shifted to Antalya, leaving the fate of a major city with a coast of 318km. Today, in the Free Zone of Mersin, people have not been able to solve the property problems from 1987 to this side. Many facilities remain within the shoreline. There is no deed to a factory that manufactures in the free zone. Who's a manufacturer without a deed to give a mortgage, who gets a loan, what kind of business will he keep going? Today, due to the lack of legal regulations... normally the free zone is a place where free trade can be done. A business owner in Mersin must be able to take the pebble from the Nile and sell it to the glass factory in Czechoslovakia, but he can't do it, only through an offshore company on the British islands. All companies that trade in the free zone are considered smugglers. Whoever's smuggling, whoever's doing illegal work has to be made legal arrangements for these things, the maximum penalty. But today, all the warehouses, the warehouses, the camera system, but unfortunately, the range of products that can be traded is very small. In the free zone, not everyone can buy and sell the product they want. At a meeting last year when our Minister of Customs and Trade came to Mersin, a businessman who was a politician in the AK PARTI, said to the Minister of Customs and Trade: "Unfortunately, the Ministry of Customs and Trade is the ministry of preventing trade." They're going to sell goods to the United Nations from the free zone, the United Nations wants boxes, say five kilos of sugar in each box. But our legislation doesn't allow you to put 5 kilos of sugar in each box, but it says you can put 2 kilos of sugar in each box. Businessmen are really suffering enough from these legislations in the free zone. It has to be opened up, it has to come to the right place, or... 7,000 people work today, most of which are in the free zone; they work in textile workshops that shouldn't be, the manufacturer works in workshops. There is a port of Mersin, where the trade of ships must be opened. Many products that come with ships must be bought and sold by companies in the free zone, but this, unfortunately, is not at the desired level. In sensitive products or chemical products, many products have been constraints in the same way due to suspicion that they were used in smuggling, mixed with gasoline. Although the government has had two executive ministers from Mersin, although Kurdistant Tüzmen has made many promises as Minister of Customs and Trade, the free zone has not been struck by nails concerning organised industrial areas, unfortunately, concerning trade zones. In the past term, if India has Bollywood, then Turkey will also have Mersin. Your colleague Mersin has made these promises, but Mersin is still watching the theatre. Before I end my words, I want to talk about the good things that have been done. Last week, the city hospital opened in Mersin. I thank everyone who's done it, from the municipality, the investment firm, and the government that has given the necessary support. However, it was said that the tender had been made before the elections, but unfortunately, there are 350,000 people who are now unaccounted for, when the city hospital would be built, when the Çukurova airport would be finished.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0178par0092	Complete, please, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0177par0093	Mr. Minister of Tourism was here, but I think he's leaving now. The boilerd coastal area has been declared a tourist zone, but unfortunately, it hasn't been finished in ten years. Today, all the companies in the tourism area who are investing have given up investments, and right now they're probably looking for Arab investors. In order for Mersin to stand up, trade and tourism must be done together here. With these developments in Syria, Iraq, Iran, it is impossible for the free zone in Mersin to make a healthy trade, and I expect our government to do the necessary work, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0178par0095	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 11th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 11 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed by the ministry. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Baki Simsek İsmail Faruk Aksu Deniz Depboylı Ruhi Ersoy The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 11 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 11th Article of the Law under which there is a amendment to the Law and the Law. Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Male Cetin Arık From the heart to the best of them. The signatures of the other motion are: Ahmet Yıldırım Erol Dora Behçet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0179par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0178par0123	Mr Ahmet Yıldırım is the first speaker of the same motions.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0180par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we believe that a specific debate has been carried out regarding the 443th Bill, including regulations for the free zone, and has been matured for both the ruling and opposition party. However, we, for the past two days, will address our criticisms, not politics, but moral and conscience, as a human responsibility, to eliminate the effects of these decrees that have been made by political witnesses, which have been revealed as opposition to the people that this has exposed. I've just said it, and I'll say it again, it's the only way to run a decision that would be a victim of a society that he's led by a political power. It's not like we don't get the feeling that a community structure is guiding the government while we think that political power is actually cleaning up when it's fighting parallel structures, and we're leaving it, and we're moving towards different social opposition areas. Because it is of no use to the political power, to the government, to these people, to those people, to those people, to those people who were expelled as a result of the decrees of the law. I'm sure the representatives of the ruling party are as confident as they are that the majority of the academics who have been expelled by this KHK and who are well-known to the public in Turkey are divisive and that they have no relationship with the Laughing Congregation. With movement from here, we're really having trouble understanding what power is trying to do. Because some of these academics have actually represented this country in the best possible way on the international platform, not only with its contributions to the field of authority and its contributions to this country, but with its scientific knowledge and good manners, who have made serious contributions to the country and the world scientific community. We can name some of them, but we need to know that the practices that we've developed against them now have led to the turning of a political resolution into persecution. The majority of these academics will become buildings with no scientific activities written on the country's sign if they are also rejected by authority and themselves in their field. This is true of the majority of these academics, both science and health sciences, who work in discipline of social sciences. We want the government -- what it does -- to work a little more carefully, to deal with the removal of the victims that have been exposed with this KHK, not only with these exported people and scientists, but with the promise that this country will seriously damage its future, its science, its enlightenment. The sooner you move from here, the sooner you get back from the wrong, the better. If not, let us take into account these well-intentioned, constructive criticisms that are not only aimed at hitting and forcing political power; despite all their mistakes, let us take into account these structures that scientists can contribute to this country's contribution, scientific knowledge and good manners, which are not limited to its platforms and amphithic issues, and let the country take advantage of them. Let's not let this country be deprived of these people, they haven't come to this day so easily. If not, if you're deliberately trying to victimize him because he doesn't think like power, it's called persecution. In response, we say: "If you want persecution, fear, intimidation, social dissension, the afterlife of the oppressor and the oppressor will be ruined," says Ziya Pasha, and I say, "If you make this persecution chronic and perpetuate it, it will not be good for you." I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0181par0132	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Bkent Öz, Mr. Çanakkale MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0182par0136	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 11th Amendment on behalf of the CHP Group. I salute the General Assembly. Because of the earthquake in Çanakkale, I wish all my countrymen once again to get well. I also ask for mercy on our children who are martyrs in Syria, and I ask for patience on their families and on our nation. The work of the 11th article... for the brand recognition and promotion of Turkish property... will certainly affect the cost of exporters and products exported by our industrialists. We have always supported these initiatives as CHP, but it is clear that such important matters will not be met with last-minute motions aimed at saving the day. It was supposed to be the establishment of this bill by taking the views of exporters, industrialists, academics, economists. As always, the AKP quickly passed this bill, ignoring the warnings of sector representatives and opposition. Turkey's need for external financing is over 200 billion dollars annually, and economic problems, which are directly affecting the lives of our citizens, where energy dependency leads to low-profit production policies, medium-tech and medium-income traps. The crisis in our country, the cause of anxiety and fear is not global, it is due to Turkey's stable internal dynamics and AKP's insistence on presidential office. Moreover, the political power, which has confronted our country with terrorism and security weakness and the July 15th process, has been the main actor of economic instability today, calling the congregations that led the state to the brink. At a time when all sectors expect structural reforms, for the sake of presidential stubbornness and under the conditions of the State of Emergency, our country is driven into a deep economic crisis that is not named after it. You can bring all the arrangements you want, the investor will not trust the country, which will be ruled by decrees in a system of legislation, governance, and judicial action. There shouldn't be a single man's regime to have trust in the country. In the first place, we need to ensure peace and social unity in the country. The more he insists on bringing in this system change, the more polarizing the country is. Due to the presidential debate, our currency debt has nearly doubled. How would an investor invest in this situation, increase exports, increase employment? The AKP is trying to divide our country by talking about the upper mind. But I think no one wants the upper mind, the presidency in our country, and the regime of one man. There's not a country in the world that grew up on a single man's diet that went straight. All the destroyed countries in the Middle East were ruled by one man's regime, and that upper mind, that one man, has always played the lead in regimed countries. Such countries as Egypt, Libya, Syria, Iraq, ruled by one man, have always experienced chaos; Gaddafi, Saddam, as a result, have fallen from power. Whoever that superior mind is, Mr. Erdogan is setting a trap for our country, I want to say this in particular. I ask those who will give: Is there one clause in this constitution for the benefit of the country and the nation? Can they please read these items, is there a pensioner in it or a farmer? What's in the ingredients? The President determines the judiciary, the President determines the rectors, the President determines the ministers, he determines the deputies, he determines the MPs, the President dissolves the Parliament, the President issues the decree. All the materials are in one person's best interest, there's not a single substance in the interest of 80 million. Dear friends, it is not the matter of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, it is the matter of not leaving the will of the country in one person's hands, no matter who it is. Ataturk was one man. Those who called him are lying to the eyes of the people. On August 5, 1921, before the Battle of Sakarya Square, Ataturk was given the power of commander-in-chief by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for only three months. Ataturk is a nation of states. No authority outside the Grand National Assembly of Turkey could control the national agreement, saying that the country's administration would be by Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's too short, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0183par0146	Please complete, Mr. Oz. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0182par0148	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk dedicated his life to his country's struggle for democratisation. Dear lawmakers, our agenda should not be the presidency; our agenda should be the future of 80 million, not one person's future. Thank you, I'm paying my respects. Good evening, everyone.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0184par0152	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 11 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed by the ministry. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0185par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0184par0162	Mr. Deniz Depboyli, MP of Aydın on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0186par0165	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veteran Assembly. Today, on the 48th anniversary of its establishment, my country and my nation, and then the cause, which is acting on the principle of my party, which rises from the shoulders of the martyrs, to all of our friends, who have come to this day, with their presence, with their hard work, with the presence of the National Movement, with all of our own friends, and especially our archnephew, Alparslan Turkesh, all of our elders, who have been brought to eternity. Members of lawmakers are certain to contribute to our economy as a result of the decent governance of the free zone, along with the addition of the free zone to our economy. First of all, for my own constituency, Aydın, the values of the project are of absolute importance to our province of the free zone, which we expect to live soon. As a candidate for free zone ownership, we want our Crazy Airport to at least fit commercial flights in order for the fruits and vegetables that grow in our region to reach consumers faster. However, the Enlightenment-Sea highway, which you promised each election, but is always postponed, needs to be finished as soon as possible. According to data from the Aydın Trade Exchange, 60,000 tonnes of crops were collected in 2016 alone and are still wanted for exports. It seems necessary to establish a free zone in which products such as figs, olives, and cotton can be processed and marketed. In this way, we hope that Aydın will become a commercial centre, especially on food. Moreover, for our fig quality to continue, a resource such as the field care unit must be created. Because the number of geothermal plants that are growing rapidly and are not properly operated are occupying our agricultural fields. You have to stop these businesses from hurting their environments and people that you don't even need to get a CED report for its establishment. In order to understand how important the control of these businesses is, you have to look at how it affects agricultural products, water resources and people around the plants, but it's not enough to look at them, you have to see them. The world's highest quality fig grows in Aydın, and for that, its climate - specific humidity is of great importance at this point. No matter how much they prevent the release of sulfur, which is toxic gas, you won't be able to eat the fig you're eating in the near future because it changes the humidity in the air. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, geothermal plants that have been opened with uncontrollably planned and are not well controlled are damaging the ecological system. Perhaps you've heard, at the CED meeting in Germencik, a beekeeper's wife tried to burn herself because 450 hive bees died from geothermal plants. Fortunately, he was interfered in time, saved his life. Fadime and Ahmet Camuz, the owner of the casings, were not first taken into account for the application to investigate the cause of the bees' deaths to the district and county agricultural managers in March; then, after the change of the county manager, the inspector was appointed to answer the request in August. Four months after the incident took place, they went to the scene to investigate, and unfortunately, they did not find these destroyed bees, so they wrote a report saying, "There is no such event. After the citizen's lawsuit against the geothermal firm, the firm agreed to a deal with the citizen so that it would probably be a small number of fines to pay, so that we could compensate for the damage, but we found out that he also gave up the deal. Congressmans, it is the state's duty, especially to protect the rights of our beloved nation, to help those who have been wronged. The government's officer and chief must make the arrangements on time. Of course, geothermal is a resource that needs to be evaluated. However, these plants, which work unsupervisedly and rapidly increase in numbers, are supposed to be dependent on a discipline that violates the health of locals and harms the environment. I call upon you to make more sensitive decisions about these and so on, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0187par0174	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 12 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed by the ministry. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Baki Simsek İsmail Faruk Aksu Deniz Depboylı Ruhi Ersoy Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Law Bill 443 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Erol Dora Behçet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı The signatures of the other motion are: Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Güceçenı male Erkan Aydın Çetin Arik Okan Gaytancıoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0188par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0187par0202	The first speaker on the same motions is Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı of Bitlis MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0189par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 443th Law of Free Zones, and on the 12th Amendment to Amendments in certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. Dear MPs, domestic market impacts must be analysed as well as positive examples of the issue of free zones. While it is not entirely wrong to view this practice as the necessity of economic progress, there are flaws in it. Most important of all is the analysis of the balance of imports and exports. Turkey is an importer of many subjects, and it is possible to see it when you look at TÜİK 2016 data. The total export 432 billion, total imports of 600 billion euros, when the Turkish Statistical Agency reviews the 2016 Foreign Trade Report. In the 1990s, the International Labor Organization (ILO) reported that imports in free zones, in countries such as Brazil and Barbados, are usually on exports and work as an imported processing zone for these regions. This should be an example of imports and exports. Free zones can also help with technological development, but we're also very technologically dependent on the outside, especially if we say that high-tech products only have imports. See, according to TÜİKTİK technology density in December 2016, manufacturing products are higher in foreign trade than in high-tech products and import exports in medium high-tech products. Only medium high-tech products and low-tech products develop more than export imports. In the long run, this could put Turkey in a position of importing, especially technologically. The implementation of liberal economic policy, under the rules of the World Trade Organization, will reduce the importance of long-term home free zones to attract foreign capital, increase exports, provide technology transfers and create employment. This could create contradictions in the establishment and purpose of free zones. Foreign companies or domestic companies in the free zones may also leave these areas in the increased cost of raw materials or labor. Companies operating in free zones usually do not invest in large amounts of infrastructure and infrastructure, allowing them to leave the area easily. In addition, the lack of large investments in tools and equipment is more flexible for companies to choose a place of production, such as assembly and demotion in the region. So, any cost-enhancing change in the host country could also cause free zones companies to leave the area very quickly. Such a situation means abandoning expectations along with foreign capital. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that the issue of these free zones be evaluated seriously in an environment of different opinions, civil society organisations and experienced representatives. Especially with globalisation, the race for increasing trade volumes, the formation of free zones of developing and developing countries, with these areas leading international capital to world trade, thus strengthening the capitalist system. The priority of power on this issue is not to be a company, but to be a human being, and to ensure the safety of business law, job security, and labor. Any economy without the basis of law and justice is doomed to fail. My science, Bitlis, is that there is no economic free zone, and only through the AKP government and the governor, political free zones have been created by placing their hands on municipalities and districts. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all, and wish you good evening.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0190par0216	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu of Edirne. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0191par0220	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to say something about the Minister of Economy. It's about the free zones again, but I want to talk about a very large free zone, the European Union. I read one of the Minister's last interviews, so I made a pledge to my party on this clause. I read an interview saying they wanted to open the customs union to agricultural products and that Turkey was ready for this. We're not ready for this, and as a scientist who's worked on it for years, had books, had literature, I'm saying it as a politician. So what you're saying is, we'll do customs with the European Union, and we'll lift up the customs walls for agricultural products. Let the meat, which is 15 liras, come to Turkey. It may be true for the consumer, but what do we do with 17 million producers? We work in a very high-cost industry. We're dealing with a mass that uses the world's most expensive diesel, uses its most expensive electricity, uses its most expensive fertilizer, uses its medicine, uses its land, is small and fragmented, seriously owes structural problems, tries to come back with four, five credit cards in its pocket, sells its tractor when it comes to selling its money to pay off its debts. We have to make this mass grow. Turkey should have carried out structural reforms in the Customs Union, which we entered on January 1, 1996. Turkey's agriculture should be adapted to the European Union's common agricultural policy. These were the things you should have done in your 15 years of glory, knowingly, not willingly. You didn't support agriculture, you didn't care about the migration from village to city. It's always, if you don't have it, you're keeping Turkey busy with artificial agendas right now. Instead of solving these problems, you're thinking of pushing Turkey into a one-man regime, and you're not thinking about anything else. You're thinking of collecting the revenues of the republic that Turkey has been saving for years in a fund, making expenses here, and giving Turkey a pink picture for four months, but you're always sweeping the problems under the carpet. If you want to solve problems, you have to care about structural policies. You have to support the manufacturer first. So, you're going to lift the shackles off his feet, and then you're going to say, "Run." Your farmer has very serious weights on his feet, you call him run 100 meters and come first. Do you know how much the budget of the European Union's common agricultural policy supports the business head, the average income? I'll tell you: the average income of a farmer's family is 10,000 euros. Our farm family's average income is not even 1,000 euros. How are you going to race it, even it out, open it up to competition? You can open it, maybe you can sell a single lamb, maybe you can sell the groceries that you've forgotten, but now Turkey imports peas and lentils and beans from Canada. The inner Anatolian is empty, 26 million acres are not planted, the Turkish fencer goes door-to-door to get his kid to be a subcontractor, he sells his fields, other people buy businesses, big farms are created; you still ignore them. Your mind is to turn Turkey over to one person. Let's put the speakers in, let's silence the speakers, the free thinkers, the realistic thinkers, the interests of Turkey, the interests of science, the interests of the world. Not like this! You'll see it's not like this soon enough. Our people will tell you no. You will not be able to stand still. See the facts. Turkey has no problems that can't be solved, but instead of solving problems, you're thinking about creating new problems. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0192par0225	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Before we move on to the other motion, Mr. Secretary has a request for a word at his place. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0193par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to present information not to correct the issues expressed by the speaker, but to avoid misunderstandings with the General Assembly. Our government has had a very important work in updating the customs union since the last three years. Starting in January 2014, we are in agreement with the European Union on updating the customs union. As you know, the customs union has continued since 1996 to date, in an area that has only covered industrial products for 21 years. As of now, Turkey has made 49.5 per cent of its exports and 42 per cent of its imports with the European Union, and has recently gained 75 per cent of its direct foreign capital inputs in the past 13 to 14 years, as well as 75 per cent of the capital entry of around $175 billion from the European Union. The issue we repeatedly complained about was that we did not participate in decision-making mechanisms, we discussed our views with the European Union that Turkey would not be able to continue with the European Union if such agreements, such as the upcoming TTIP, could not continue with the European Union, as we automatically opened our doors to free trade agreements with the third countries and so on. In May 2015, together with the European Union, we announced a joint declaration in Brussels and the update of the customs union. And the scope of that was, we said there: 1) Turkey must be involved in the decision-making mechanisms of the customs union with the European Union. 2) A free trade agreement signed by the European Union with third countries and Turkey automatically side with its counterparts. 3) We have issued a joint declaration of understanding to discuss the extent of the customs union, which is only industrial products, agriculture and food products, services, public purchases, and so far we have continued processes, both as the government of the Republic of Turkey and as the European Union. Both sides did separate impact assessments, and that's over. The European Union has made presentations of them in itself, and we as Turkey have shared them very clearly, both within ourselves and with the government and with the public. At this point, the Council of Commissioners of the European Union, the Council of the European Union, has asked the Council for a unanimous request for authority on updating the customs union. Here's the valuable speaker's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since it's important, may I have a few more minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0194par0236	Mr. Secretary, normally there's no such thing, but I'll give you two more minutes, so please complete.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0193par0237	Thank you. Now, at the point where we're here, after our agreement that agriculture and food should be part of the customs union, what we do as Turkey is that we do, like wheat, many more strategic agricultural products like wheat, we do it by protecting them with customs walls around 140 per cent, protecting agriculture in Turkey, where we make our farmer pay for support at high prices. What's the European Union doing? He supports his farmer in the same way, but as you're talking about, he supports meat production with budgetary resources while consumers consume meat for $15, $20, for 15 lira, that's how he covers the difference. And that's what we as Turkey are going to do, of course, is we're going to do the first one, a commercial transition in agricultural products, and the second one, we're going to put the support of agriculture that we're making consumers pay for in the budget resources, and it's going to be the support of agriculture, the producer. As an agricultural country, Turkey is truly number one in the domestic product in Europe; in this sense, we are in the world's top ten. We can never give up agriculture. It will change shape to support our farmer. In this sense, the upgrade of the customs union with the European Union as Turkey in the coming period is also very important for the Turkish economy and for Turkish agriculture, as it will have a full economic integration with the European Union. Mr. President, thank you so much for your patience.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0196par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0243	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0196par0244	We've discussed it with groups, and I'm not going to make a request, but in fact, with the information the Minister has given to the Parliament spontaneously, the Civil Code 59 is entitled to a ten-minute evaluation of the groups...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0245	Oh, my... don't...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0196par0246	...but not to set an example, we'll waive our rights this time.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0247	Well, thank you for your understanding, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0197par0248	Let's get him on the record.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0198par0249	Congratulations on your gallantry, Mr. Freeman.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0253	Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in Article 12 of the Law on Free Zones No. 443 is changed by the ministry. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0199par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0195par0261	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy of Osmaniye on the motion.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0200par0263	Congressmans, the valuable preparedness; first of all, the news of the testimony from El Bab. As I thought to all of you, has brought new fires to the Turkish nation, but the nationalization of geography, the struggle and national security can be made possible. May their souls rest in peace. Hopefully, I'd like to rephrase that will, that determination, in the hope that it doesn't come from now on. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, as our deputy chairman of the group stated during the day, today is February 9th, the founding anniversary of our party, the National Movement Party. The Republican People's Party turned into the Nationalist Movement Party on February 8th, 9th, and I ask that this holy journey be a blessing to the great Turkish nation, to the Turkish state, to the country itself. This glorious battle of sweat, labor, blood, martyrdom, as it was yesterday, continues with the same determination and will last forever. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you a few examples of the issues we've been talking about in the free zones and the laws we've been talking about, the laws on the legislatures, and I'd like to give you an example of what issues such as this may be facing in my own knowledge, and I'd like to present some demands while we've found the Government and our Minister here. Dear MPs, I'm the MP of Osmaniye, from the geography, where the country's children have the highest interest in being soldiers, who have recently been on the agenda with the news of the martyrs, who want to be a soldier right behind them. Osmaniye is a younger province in the 1890s with the reformatory and the departure from Adana in the mid-1990s, not from the recent provinces, but from the 80th province to be considered a new province. There are four major cities surrounded by Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Adana, and Hatay, and a province that is stuck in the middle of this, pondering its development by expressing itself in some way. If you think about Osmaniye's intrinsicity with the Adana borders, Osmaniye is now a province with a population of 522,175 inhabitants, whose name is called the "great-city" in the final count as the number of citizens living at its border, but with serious problems in terms of the area of employment, in terms of production, in terms of economic contribution. First of all, I would like to ask as a deputy of the province that this study should be closely monitored by the Ministry of the Ministry as to the immediate implementation of the logistical base, which was planned within the structure of the organised industry. Again, I am grateful to the government officials and supporters who are holding this issue on the agenda, especially the organised industrial executives, which are the cause of a joyful development of the technology development zone in the organised industrial region, but it is imperative that this area be raised with applications, not enough. In Osmaniye, the port initiative and the port development, after a step, may be a sign that new free zones such as Mersin will also be possible in that region, which we have to think about, we have to have such programs, because Osmaniye has an infrastructure that can be a very serious base for Hatay, Kilis and Gaziantep, the Middle East and Syria. But our wound, our Band-Aid, the Ottoman Trade Exchange, which is on the agenda today, has a problem with us and the relevant authorities as of yesterday, which is to include the scope of supporting the peanut of Osmaniye, just like in corn, cotton. In our province, which meets 70 per cent of Turkey's potential, or rather 70 per cent of the peanuts, the entire region of Çukurova, which is the central base for the production of peanuts, unfortunately, a planned, programmed plant and there is no farming possible. Since rude order, support purchases are not part of strategic planning, each year's product has its own stock market, and in the stock markets, the situation of the farmer who worked in some years can be pathetic, and the situation of the investor can be seriously pathetic. We're going to ask that it be part of products that are part of a plan to include it in the program, and we're going to have a very intense request from the government as all political parties in the coming days. I'd like to present that as well. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0201par0271	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on Free Territories of 443, and in accordance with Article 13 of the Law on the Amendment of Some Laws and Laws, we would like to request and propose that the declaration of duty be replaced by at least three years of service. Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Güceçenı male Cetin Arik Erkan Aydın Ali Yiğit Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0202par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0201par0285	Smyrna MP Ali Yiğit on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0203par0288	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 13th Amendment of Bill 443. I salute you all. Dear friends, for the past two days, there have been funerals coming from El Bab, and we are burning inside. Me and my dad, we always grew up with Yemeni songs, we got burned, we got hurt, but I guess my kids and my grandkids are gonna grow up singing El Bab. I'm so sorry, dear friends. Somewhere beyond our borders, our children are dying, and the deputy just came out, and he mentioned the witness sherbet here. Surely it's not normal to go and die for someone else in another land, dear friends, there's nothing to brag about, please... look, dear friends...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0204par0291	He's dying for you, he's dying for Ankara, he's dying for the Turkish nation, he's dying for Turkey.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0205par0292	Get out of here! What are you doing there? They're dying for nothing.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0206par0293	They died for us in Yemen.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0207par0294	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0295	Please listen, listen.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0209par0296	They died for us, for us.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0297	Look, fellas, 400,000, 500 grand, Syrian with a gun, eating, drinking, lying on this land, and they're not dying, our children are dying. What kid's dying? The child of the poor is dying. Pay close attention, funerals come to dry houses.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0209par0298	They're attacking us from there, us, us.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0299	New people are ready to die, he says. Of course he's ready. People are hungry, thirsty, in poverty, in poverty. There are 10 million people suffering from misery.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0210par0300	Nobody's hungry, nobody's hungry in Turkey, nobody's hungry.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0301	These people are going to die to see if I live. No one goes to death on purpose. Please, gentlemen, put your hands on your conscience, please. There's nothing to be done about it. 100,000 children were born in Turkey, the children of the Syrians, and we protect that land to entrust it to them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0211par0302	Weren't you the one who separated Izmir?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0303	Please, everyone, get your heads out of here. We don't have to die for the Syrians. Our kids are on fire. [[Applause from CHP rows]] SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY COMMISSION Tomorrow the funeral of our child will take place in Karabağ, and Izmir. I'm in pain here, dear friends, please, Congressman. I'm getting to the point. The clause includes changes in the economic ministry's organization structure, which regulates conditions for foreign deployment. In fact, with this clause, there's been an offer of law to replace people from abroad who have been laid off under executive decrees. There's no time for bureaucrats to be assigned abroad. And for the rest of the staff, he wants at least a little while. From here, we've always said that it's very important for people who are worthy of this job to go there for representation abroad, with knowledge, knowledge, foreign language -- three years -- not important. If this country is sending them abroad, let it send people with real vision, knowledge, knowledge, everything that's in place. Whoever goes, son of a bitch, son of a bitch, doesn't matter, but let those who deserve it go. Whatever happened to us came from the collapse of this merit system, dear friends. In domestic policy, foreign policy, education to the military, all the problems are based on the problem of integrity. Here, on July 15th, the AKP is trying to destroy all opposition to itself, dear friends. This understanding poses a serious problem in government administration. As long as you don't get the job done in that sense, these problems will continue to increase. Let's give a simple example of ourselves. If we go to a doctor, we try to choose the best doctor, the best hospital because we're going to trust him. So, just as we're entrusting ourselves to him, we have to hand over the government to the people who really deserve that job. Because the managers have cleared the state today because they want their allegiances. It's the same with colleges. The only reason is to oppose the AKP (AKP) or to sign a declaration. Whereas these people are both the backbone and the brain of the state. It's not their worldview, it's their brains, it's their services. Look, I'll share with you a story about this: Ekrem Pakdemir is going to the State Planning Agency, Mr. Özal, Nejat Köçen is a leftist, Republican People's Party, he says. Ozal answers: "Yes, but he has a great mind. I'm not taking advantage of his worldview, but of his brain power, he's successfully coming out of the most difficult of subjects. You're going to look at it with the right methods, but that's the way it should be, but the government doesn't do that, it's very easy to end up with a constitutional professor's job and his job in accordance with the law. Hopefully, this will be a blessing and we'll be rid of you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0212par0311	You'll be waiting a long time.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0208par0312	Thank you all, thank you, exist.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0213par0314	Thank you, Mr. Hero. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0214par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0213par0317	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0214par0318	Mr. President, the speaker who gave his speech on the stand, has tried to attribute other meanings to the speech of our predecessor, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy. There's bullying, we want promises, sir.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0213par0319	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0214par0320	Ruhi Ersoy will speak.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0213par0321	Two minutes, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0325	Members of parliament, those who fail to comprehend the concept of the concept of "voluntary geography" keep the state of the Republic of Turkey limited to 81 provinces and 73,000km. (MHP and AK PARTI) We are in this parliament today as representatives of a civilization that has set out from Samarkant, from Eusken, from a nation that has taken off with its country of life, to honor Islam, and to establish justice on earth by the case of Ilaakelimollah, whatever business we have in Yemen yesterday in Galicia, and what business we have in Çanakkale, as a member of the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0326	Canakkale is our own country.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0327	...what we're doing in Caucasus today is the same spirit and the same character...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0328	Sixty-two martyrs.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0329	...for the safety of Ankara, Diyarbakır, and the great Turkish nation, where we can drink the sherbet like lions.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0331	What kind of logic is that? Sixty-two martyrs, 62!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0332	Today, if necessary, as an honorable member of the Turkish nation...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0333	62 martyrs in the desert of Elin.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0217par0334	Dear Yım, please...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0335	...where I claim to be a martyr and ask for duty.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0336	Can you talk like that if your brother dies?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0215par0337	Because I believe that Turkey is neither a country for Turks nor a country for Turks, Turkia/Vatan is a great and life-long country, Turan to the Turks. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0216par0340	Shame on you! Shame on you! That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0218par0341	Dear Yım, please... Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0219par0343	At the beginning of his speech, Mr. Orator made it clear that he spoke of the words of our orator, speaking of the geography of the heart, to taunt our group.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0218par0344	Here, I'll give you two minutes. [[Noises]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Special Court, the speaker is on the stand. Here, Mr. Special, you talk to him.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0220par0349	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on such a painful day, let me say that I regret having had such an argument on the day that we lost our five children yesterday, our three children today, and our two children on the day that we lost our two children. We, the Republican People's Party, have expressed the pain of all the martyrs who served in the Armed Forces of this country, from the president of this party to the most junior member of this party, on every occasion, in our hearts. However, coming here on charges of breaking the promise and then bringing it to another place would be missing the fact that in the days when the issue of the Republican People's Party of Syria began to become a problem, reminding the founder of this country's founder's will, saying peace and peace in the country, peace in peace in peace in peace. No one in particular listened to the serious dangers of working with non-state elements to promote the internal affairs of its neighbours, saying it was not in accordance with Turkey's traditional foreign policy to promote a regime change in its neighbour. Those mistakes were made, and today, desperately, the Turkish Armed Forces have to be found in that swamp. The source of the matter is... Aside from what you just said about Turan, just two years ago, we took all kinds of nationalism under our feet. You had a speech that ended with those who said, "You're blood drinkers" clapping for you right now. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0221par0354	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0222par0355	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0221par0356	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0222par0358	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I truly regret this conversation. It's very upsetting. He's not out of context, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, our speaker.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0223par0359	He went to Yemen. He went all the way to Yemen.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0222par0360	But if you reconsider the speech of your own speaker and...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0224par0361	That's a rebuttal.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0222par0362	You wanted to move the issue to another location, Mr. Special, while you were actually trying to communicate with Syria. If we're going to bring what political parties and leaders say to each other here, we probably don't want to say what all the leaders say to each other, and we don't want to repeat it, and we don't need to. [[Repeat after CHP stations.]] But we must know for certain: Did you say yes to the last Syrian thesis as the Republican People's Party, or did you say no?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0225par0365	Why don't you refresh our memory, and since you're so sure of it, you can refresh our memory on the stand.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0226par0366	Why can't you tell me your decision?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0225par0367	No, here's our memory, Mr. Group.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0227par0368	Yeah, refreshing the memory.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0226par0369	Can't you express your will?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0228par0370	Maybe the CHP lost his memory.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0227par0371	I remember he voted yes for a thesis, and he voted no for a dissertation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0229par0372	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0227par0373	No? Well, maybe. Now, there's no need to keep the House busy with this kind of unnecessary polemics, and it's more dangerous to get into a number of negative polemics based on testimony like this. You need to be a little more careful, Mr. Izmir MP, because of what you said earlier, you've caused these polemics.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0230par0375	Are we going to ask you how to talk?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0231par0376	Izmir is cutting off Turkey from Turkey, connecting it to Europe.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0227par0377	You gave talks that tried to pull Izmir out of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0232par0378	Sixty-two martyrs, Mr. Akçay, our sons are dead, Mr. Akçay, my heart is bleeding.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0227par0379	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0233par0381	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0234par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0233par0383	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0234par0384	Mr. President, you all know, especially when one side of polemics is Mr. Erkan Akçay, I don't like them, but in particular, he said some very misleading things about the Republican People's Party. I have to answer for these.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0233par0385	Don't give me another pick-me-up, Mr. Special, please. I promise you one last time. I'll have to vote on the item and take a break. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0235par0391	The Republican People's Party said that they would be trained and equipped in one country, while the non-governmental elements were being supported within one country; one of them kept saying a lot of the Republican People's Party's Committee, one by one, in the seats here, during the meeting of a terrorist organization and another terrorist organization there. Without touching ISIS, we have issued our warning regarding the Syrian regime. The following year and the ongoing one included the fight against ISIS. You may be in an agreement today, you may be in an agreement over a regime change, but...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0236par0392	System...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0235par0393	...that day we were critical of policies that supported ISIS and aimed at the Syrian regime, and you could see in yourself that day, blindly supporting and expressing the mistakes made that day.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0237par0394	The bad ones aren't strangers.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0235par0395	If the changes that the parties have said about each other on this platform and then they're going to talk about it, this group will put its back on its back without any anxiety, whatever it said yesterday, in domestic policy, foreign policy, polymics, they're saying the same thing today. We're not the kind of people who called the traitor yesterday the leader of the world. No one, but no one, in search of a branch that will only be held as a result of a single exhaustion, will today experience the shame of arm in arm with their worst criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit05spe0238par0398	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0238par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 443. The Commission and the Government are here. Mr. Special, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0239par0008	Mr. President, I've just told you, it's really hard for us as the group's vice presidents, both in the past law and in the same constituency, to have two vice presidents face each other in the process when the atmosphere is so tense, and it's really hard for us to have a word in a row. We hope that our words, our words, will be judged within the limits of political criticism. Otherwise, there is no way that we can take a hurtful approach to the political party and the task that Erkan Bey represents. I'd like this to go on the record.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0238par0009	Thank you, Mr. Special. Members of parliament, I now submit the 13th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. There are two motions on the 14th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the decree shall be changed on the date of the publication of the decree, which is included in Article 14 of the 443 rows of the Bill of Law. Ahmet Yıldırım Erol Dora Behçet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Aycan İrmez The signatures of the other motion are: Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Male Erkan Aydın "Glory to the Heart" "Glory to the Heart" "Glory to the Heart" Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0240par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0238par0032	The first speaker on the same proposals is Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0241par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 14th Amendment of Bill 443. I really don't want to talk about the bill too much because it's neither human nor moral to talk about the laws you've made when there are so many problems in our country, with so many human rights violations, and so many illegalities. Therefore, we all know that unfortunately, the AKP has officially cleaned up a routine road with the AKP government's pre-referencing a referendum on the regime change of our deputies, co-Chairs, and 10 of our deputies, who have been removed from parliament at jet speed. This is road cleaning... the total number of people who were expelled from public service was 95.669, who were issued during the State of Emergency on July 15 on the grounds of coup attempt, with the export of 8,323 public employees from KHK, released on January 6th. On February 7, 2017, the result of the 686th Turkish Cypriots was exported, with 4,464 members of the ministry exported, and nearly 100,000 public employees were unfortunately discharged. All of these exports were carried out as a savings of running without any judicial and administrative proceedings being run. It has become very clear at the point where export lists are created in a completely illegal way, according to intelligence chips, administrations' arbitrary savings and tips. Another rule of law in these exports is that the judicial path is unfortunately closed. Turkey has now become a country ruled by the Turkish Cypriots. Parliament's will is almost destroyed. Hundreds of thousands of people are sadly wanted to be disciplined by hunger, with the SECs announced by the Council of Ministers' decision. Dear lawmakers, especially one of the main reasons for academic exports is the removal of the academy, a new concept of university, rather near the ruling regime, instead, is being built out of critical, scientific, and free thinking. The number of academics who were expelled from office without question and without question from the State of Emergency has increased to 4.811. One of the 35 academics has been expelled in Turkey. In particular, the practice that exposes the power's intentions in this area is that members of the Academics for Peace Initiative, which has nothing to do with the coup attempt, have been exported by the OHRK, whose entire lives have been fought against such interference. In response to the most important political and social issue of this country, the Kurdish issue, being resolved by security policies, we will not be a party to this crime. The expulsion of academics offering democratic and peaceful solution proposals to the declaration, which reads, "We will not be a party to it." This unlawfulness has once again shown that the voice of peace, which does not submit to lawless rectors, is systematically subjected to pressure because of the ideas of academics fighting for freedom of science, freedom of thought and freedom of expression. With this recent wave of exports against academics, unfortunately, Turkey has suffered another blow to its mind and common sense. In particular, Turkey, with its latest release of the KHK, is perceived by the world as an anti-Academia country. None of the conscientious academics who seek peace in the world of science and academy regret what they have done, what they have said. Asking for peace should never be considered a crime, but the AKP's power, which is trying to dominate every field, is making enemies of every scientist who opposes it, and in this sense, it is in parallel with the mind of September 12th. We know from September 12th that this will not succeed. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0242par0042	Thank you, Mr. Irmez. Mr. Erdin Bircan is the other speaker on the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0243par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yesterday and today, with the news of the martyrs from El Bab. Unfortunately, our hearts are burning, and I think we have 13 martyrs yesterday and today. We have more than 60. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs and to our veterans. But here, in this House, I certainly don't agree with our martyrs becoming polemic. Dear friends, families are calling us, saying: "We didn't send our children to Syria, we don't accept their martyrdom in Syria. I have the dramas and the crying of these families, I can show you all through e-mails and the SMS on the phones. There's got to be a cure. Along with the Free Syrian Army -- the Free Syrian Army, I don't know about that -- it's a matter of conscience to take my Mehmet-chuk there, and I certainly don't accept it, and we certainly won't. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our Turkish Armed Forces have announced today's attack on our soldiers was accidental by Russian planes. We don't know if it's possible, but will your government have any sanctions against it, Mr. Secretary? I want you to answer that, too. My dear friends, you have not neglected to add two things to the offer you've made: a rush of publicisation and a free zone of farmland and mera. Wherever there's a rush to publicisation, there's a AKP coming out of it. The AKP, again, shows that agricultural land is not after the farmer, but after the range, as quickly as the meadows are nationalized. You left no farmers in your power. Now you're looking at our farmer's land? Is there a shortage of land in the country, where agricultural areas and mechas are considered a free zone? Aggression is a quick run in AKP language. You don't eat, you don't drink, you put the land of agriculture in the bill. Tax advantages and incentives for investors in free zones, but why were they encouraged? What will the ministry's entrepreneurs contribute to employment, production, and the country's economy, which they also have incentives for? They are likely given such an advantage in exchange for their contribution to the AKP. You don't realize this, but Turkey has become a semi-open prison for those who love their country and want to live here as human beings. Unfortunately, ISIS has become a free zone for PKK, Ferhat and other terrorist organisations. Terrorist organizations can enter and exit anywhere in the country. Unfortunately, there's no terrorist organization left in this geography that hasn't detonated a bomb in our country. All these terrorist organizations are your old roadmates, I'm afraid. You've sat with all of them and negotiated with them. Now, take care of your past as a conservative party, and don't try to patch up your old roadmates to decent people. Don't forget your crying poems, your calls yesterday, the negotiations you made behind closed doors, the men who cut their heads off, not terrorists, but angry young people. Another thing you've accomplished is coupism and unfortunately opportunism. Once again, in the final decree of the law, you have shown that even the Kenan universe can't hold a candle to you in the coup. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've kicked out modern, democratic, and respected teachers of these areas of law enforcement. We fill universities with people who will do what you say, like the Lamb. But know that those universities, unfortunately, are another place, out of the university. You're trying to throw our country off the cliff under the name of a constitutional amendment. You can go after someone when they want to jump off a cliff, but we won't go, and we won't let our country go down that road. We didn't benefit Turkey from your free zones. You have also made Syria a free zone, so free that there are no more people there, and you have made them into refugees. There's no more traffic light in our country than a Syrian boy begs for. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because of your dreams of praying in Emevi Mosque, our soldiers are now being martyred in Syria, and it is time to call it "stop." I surrender you all to your consciences. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0244par0064	Thank you, Mr. Bircan. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 15th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on Free Zones No. 443, which is currently in session, and by some Laws and Laws shall be changed in the following way. Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Male Erkan Aydın Cetin Ağek Güçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Ünük Üçük Ünük Ünük Ünük Ünük Üçük Üçük Article 15- These provisions are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0245par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0244par0079	İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek on the motion.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0246par0081	I salute the High Council. Of course, I had prepared a speech on free zones today, and I would like to make a speech on the establishment of free zones, not so small, as in the Central Turkey Project, in terms of regional and world-renowned areas, but I would like to share a few insights regarding the situation in which the state and state institutions have been downgraded, as well as our martyrs in Syria. Of course, on this occasion, I salute and cherish our martyrs and veterans in Syria. In the technology we're coming from today, it's against technology, it's impossible for a Russian plane to accidentally bomb a building with a Turkish soldier. Of course, in our talks, especially after the plane crash, it's possible that this kind of loss, this kind of loss, this kind of loss, will increase even further. The conflict between our NATO ally, the United States, and Syria, in Iraq, will also lead to increased losses. The foundation of this is mismanagement, unfair governance. I'd like to share a few examples of him. A dialogue between the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister of the period. Source: Chief of Staff. Following information that the Musul consulate will be raided, the Chief of Staff of General Staff of the period will go to the Prime Minister of Staff, saying: "They will raid the Musul consulate." It's important for our reputation and for our regional interests. Let's reinforce it, prevent it from being printed. You know what the Prime Minister of the period says? My commanding officer, ISIS will do us no such harm, you do other things, and the Chief of Staff will come out of the room with grief. This will happen, our Musul consulate will be raided, our employees will be taken prisoner, the same Prime Minister will come along and say: "Let's save these prisoners. The Chief of General Staff will answer: "Your relations with ISIS are very good, you use your own methods. Otherwise, we'll operate; they'll be together, and our staff will be hurt, and you'll bring it down on us. You'll greet him again, and he'll leave the room. Now, that's not how the government operates. The sledgehammer case was issued in June 2010... a warrant for the arrest of most high-level 102 officers. Again, dialogue between the Prime Minister of the period and the President of the General Staff is fixed in the Supreme Court. The Chief of General Staff says: "These officers are the victims of conspiracy; there is no evidence against them; therefore, I want this arrest order lifted." The President, the Prime Minister, says: "Mr. Chief of General Staff, you will send him." No, I will not send him, if you want, remove me or correct this decision. He says. After all, the Supreme Court is correcting this decision, removing the arrest warrant, but on February 11, 2011, 170 officers were taken prisoner this time in Petty Officer Silivri. In fact, in that dialogue, the Chief of Staff gives orders to the authorities -- the police, of course, want to go around, hire the soldiers who have been ordered to arrest them, get promoted -- says: "Those who live outside, come to the army house, don't leave, I won't hand you over. The ones we've been living with in Syria after the state administration, the martyrs we've given, of course, are making our consciences hurt." There is a secret witness, Efe, who led us to Erzincan. He now confesses that he came to Ankara and was encouraged to meet with the Deputy Prime Minister of the period and to become a confidential witness in 2010. That's no way to run a state. If it's run like this, Turkey will continue to give martyrs and veterans. I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0247par0091	Thank you, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0248par0092	Where's the document on the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, Mr. Cicek?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0247par0093	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, to be in favor, Mr. Zeki Aygün, the Alderman of Marseilles. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0249par0100	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I found that the opposition and the government are in agreement with the Bill of Free Zones 443 in terms of time management. This compromise, of course, is important to us. And I respect that compromise, and I say yes to that compromise. However, I also thank our friends from the opposition that supported both the General Assembly and the Commission. I wish this law would bring blessings to our country, to our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0250par0104	You're history, history! Tomorrow you're on the front page at the Bigeli.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0251par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0250par0106	I'll put you on the front page tomorrow. You're history.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0251par0108	Against him now, Mr. Tahsin Tarhan again, the MP from Kopeeli. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. For about three days, our fellow lawmakers and I have expressed our opinion on the Bill of the Free Zones. The Minister didn't answer our questions either in the Commission's process or here. There is a fine saying: Do not hold anyone's arm to preach what you are saying, for it is better to keep your mouth shut when people are not willing to listen to you. So I'm going to shut up about this law and explain the color of my vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there will be a public vote, I hope. I hope so, because as 339 lawmakers, the one man who you've considered smuggling property out of a fire hasn't accepted the amendment in three weeks, he's been holding it up, and I think he's gonna rewrite it. Well, that's how weird it is to hand everything over to one man.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0253par0114	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0254par0115	For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0116	It's going to be a public vote sooner or later.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0254par0117	Reads, reads 18 articles.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0118	However, the people will say, "Good things, and good things, and the people will say, "No, for the sake of not giving up the universal law achievement that has passed through the strain of centuries." (HPP cheers) The people will say no to show that they are with the oppressed in front of the tyrant. The people will say no to say that the poor are poorer, the religious traffickers are richer than they are without producing.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0254par0120	Yeah, those bridges were self-inflicted.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0121	The people will say, "No, for a transparent government, where there is no protection from the insolent, the thief, the rapists, the lovers." The people will say no to not mortgage their great state, freedom, personality to one person. People will say no to lose their job, their vaccine.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0255par0122	You can't read the text, the text, the text!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0123	The people will say no, to know who you are friends with and who you are enemies with. The people will say, "No, let go of your grandson, and let go of your grandson's grandson." Instead of violence, the people will say no, to live in peace, to live in the beauty and peace of democracy against brotherhood, dictatorship.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0256par0125	Do the people accept what they say?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0252par0126	We said, "What the people have done is good, good things, and I too am joining our people's caravan with honor, with love, with enthusiasm." I say, "No." I invite you to attend. (CHEERING) Then no be pure, get out of here! Thanks.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0257par0129	There's no good for people in your condition, that's the problem.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0258par0130	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0259par0131	According to 60...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0258par0132	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0259par0135	Mr. President, I'd like to express that we've been following the negotiations with great patience. I would also like to point out that we do not accept the allegations that the speakers have made during their talks, and that we cannot accept them. Sir, someone told me that there's been a dialogue between the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister, we're not bad with ISIS, we're not bad with ISIS, we're not. There's a dialogue like this. We're not going through dialogue. You're obliged to come here and prove what you know.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0260par0138	He has to present his document, his document, or he'll be slandering it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0259par0139	Otherwise, these phrases are written in heads, expressed on the stand, not beyond that, meaning nothing to us. Another one, look, what are our soldiers doing in Syria? In Syria, our troops are there for the safety of the Republic of Turkey and its nation. From there, rockets are launched, falling into our borders. There's a full-scale fight against terrorist organizations there. A fight is being waged against DAİSİSK, where a fight is being fought against the PKK's arm, DYD ▪. Our Armed Forces are there to ensure the safety of Turkey. Today, it is the glorious Turkish Armed Forces who have struck the biggest blow against the DAİŞ terrorist organization. A coalition has been established around the world, their distance is clear, but it is clear that within four or five months the Turkish Armed Forces have demonstrated their success against this terrorist organization. From this point on, valuable lawmakers, our armed forces have a clear objective there. Turkey does not act with terrorist organisations, the state of the Republic of Turkey is an ancient state and is there to fight against terrorist organisations. And other than that, there is no merit in Our sight, and We do not accept it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0261par0143	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0262par0144	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0261par0145	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0262par0146	In his statement, Mr. Mush said that he had just repeated a statement from Mr. Dursun Cicek, who was on the stand and invited him to explain the source of this, and he continued to say, "If otherwise." Mr. Dursun Flowers would like to exercise his right to an explanation.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0261par0148	In position?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0262par0149	If you appreciate it, it'll be on the stand, but...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0261par0150	It doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Flower, on the stand.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0263par0155	I salute the High Council again. I told you the source, the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister of the period, very clear.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0264par0157	Did they pass it on to you?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0263par0158	Yes, first... yes, I...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0264par0159	Did they pass it on to you? You'll show me the document, the document.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0263par0160	Yes, I am, I am.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0264par0161	You'll show me the document, you'll show me the document. You're not making it up, you're not making it up.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0265par0162	They'll come out, they'll deny it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0266par0163	Congressmans, please... Mr. Bonekara...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0165	Now, that's it, violence doesn't apply to us.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0268par0166	You won't make it up.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0167	It's a fabrication.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0268par0168	Document, document...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0169	Here, go ask the Chief of Staff, and he'll talk. It's a document.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0268par0170	The document, the document. The Chief of Staff told you?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0171	He's a witness, isn't he?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0269par0172	Get him out, get him to deny it.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0173	I'm a soldier, loyal to my oath, I don't lie.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0270par0174	The Chief of Staff will tell you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0176	Now, look, here's the document, here's the document.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0271par0177	Look, the Chief of Staff...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0270par0178	I can tell you're lying.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0179	It's a document, look.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0271par0180	Explain this, you said the court's transcripts. You are called the Judgement Reports.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0181	The secret witness, Efe, the secret witness, Efe...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0182	I can tell you're lying. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0273par0183	Mr. Bonekara...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0184	...in Erzincan's case...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0185	Don't change the subject, come to the matter before. Come to the matter before, sir.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0186	...Be a confidential witness with Sadullah Ergin. Go and assist the prosecutor in this case. We'll make you a prosecutor, we'll make you a judge. Didn't he say? Here's the document.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0187	Come to the matter before.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0274par0188	Look, you've been turned around in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0189	Running Turkey is not like running a municipality. Being a statesman...
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0190	We run the government.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0191	You're going to run a bit of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0192	Look, you're gonna give us the right information, the right information.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0193	What happened to government institutions? Where are the Armed Forces? Where's the judgment? Where's the government?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0194	You'll give me the right information.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0195	Where's the powerful government, the powerful government?
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0272par0196	You won't lie, it won't suit you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0197	Too bad, too bad! We served five years in prison as victims of you. You've turned us over to the authorities. Now you're talking about law, government. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] You don't have the government.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0275par0201	Lying doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0202	I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0275par0204	You're not gonna lie.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0267par0205	It's the bastard who lies.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit06spe0276par0206	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit07spe0276par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 443. The commission and the government are in place. Now we're going to vote on the whole bill. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system, and I'd like to ask them to deliver the ballots to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, if there are those who are going to vote, I'd like to request that they vote for any minister who will vote for the vote, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his signature with his name and name, again, within a three-minute period scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the open vote on the Law on the Law on Free Zones and the Amendments to certain Laws and Laws is the result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 212 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439, which was found at the 2nd place of the agenda, and with the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit07spe0277par0027	CHP's here. There's no commission, but the CHP is here.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit07spe0276par0028	We begin negotiations with Law Bill 440 in the third place and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit07spe0278par0033	The Minister is there, Mr. President. Look, the Minister is standing.
tbmm-2017-02-09sit07spe0276par0034	There is no commission, Mr. Tanal, I beg you very much, please. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 340 in the 4th place and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 14th 2017), according to the decision taken, to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
