tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. Of course, today, this week is both Brotherhood Week and Hidirellez -- I mean the Fast and the Week of Elias -- both Yunus Emre Culture and Art Week. That's why I'm going to mention all of them, but I strongly condemn the downloading of Arabic signs by municipalities from Adana, Mersin, Hatay, AKP, and MHP. For days now, our Arab citizens, our brothers and sisters have been expressing their discomfort in this matter, giving it to us. In the week of the Brotherhood, we must not attack the language of the people we call brothers, not interfere with their signs. Look, I want to read a verse about this. In the 22nd verse of the month, the Book says: "There are signs for men of understanding, in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the diversity of your languages and colors." So Allah did not create the world monolingual, nor did Turkey create the world monolingual. It says in my scripture: "I have created you in multilingual and multicolored. So we have to respect all languages, all colors, and as part of the Brotherhood Week, I'm also transferring an incident about brotherhood that was said a thousand or four hundred years ago: you don't have complete faith unless you want what you want for yourself, what you want for your own soul, you don't have complete faith, unless you want it for yourself. So, why don't we want what we want for our language, for our race, for our culture, for another culture, for another language? We need to start here. In this sense, we expect explanations from municipalities from the EC PARTY and municipalities from MHP. The first concrete act of their alliance at the referendum was to download Arabic language signs. Our Arab brothers and we are also asking for their account here, and I want to condemn it in Arabic: I mean, now that I'm speaking Arabic, I don't think you're going to come and rip my tongue out. God has given me this language. Please, let us fulfill the need for brotherhood. These applications are of no use to anyone. Foreign signs, of course, don't download them, but foreign signs, English, French, German, Japanese, whatever, but there's an attack on the Arabic signs. This is also a matter to discuss, to discuss, to discuss. We also said Dolphin Emre Cultural and Art Week. Look what he said: ▪ Once you've broken your heart This isn't your prayer. Seventy-two nations, Your hand is not soft. Let's get acquainted. Let's make it easy. Let's be loved, let's be loved. The world doesn't belong to anyone. Don't worry about it. It's from the Creator. Don't think it's the profit of the tyrant. The victim's head will be down. There's a time for everything. Good thing Yunus Emre didn't live in this time, in this century, this year, or he probably would've been writing poetry in the same ward as our husband, because he called it peace, brotherhood, because of its quads. It may sound funny, but the teacher Ayþe is sentenced to 15 months in prison for saying, "Don't let the children die, don't let the mothers cry." So asking for brotherhood, asking for peace in this country should be rewarded, not punishment. I hope that this wrong path will soon be turned around and the pain, the tears will be eased. Also, thank you all for listening, and happy Brotherhood Week, all of you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Deniz Gezmiş and Mersin MP Serdal Welcuoğlu, who wants to talk about the anniversary of the execution of his friends. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on May 6th because Deniz Gezmis, the leader of the revolutionary movement of Turkey, is the anniversary of the execution of his friends. On this occasion, I salute you all. May 6, 2017, the 45th year of the execution of the Seas two days later. Because they opposed imperialism and its collaborators, Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan were executed. Not only were three revolutionaries executed that day, both justice and conscience were executed. (HPP clapping in rows) At no stage of trial, the law was not kept within its rules, it was the product of biased and dependent courts. The consciences were blackened with vengeance; the revolucing counter-revolution was seeking revenge; their minds were crushed and crushed under betrayal. You don't learn from history, you want history to flow backwards. Young people wanted independence and democracy for their country, brotherhood and unity for their people. (CHP cheers) History has justified them, glorified them. The imperialist armies and collaborators based on our borders then press on the governments and the people they destroy and threaten us with flags. Fifty years ago, in 1967, Israel, supported by the United States, attacked and invaded its neighbours to gain new land, to drive the resident Palestinian people away from their homeland. Of course, the Palestinian people have taken action. Three young revolutionaries who were executed fought alongside the Palestinians; they fought for the brotherhood, freedom, independence of the people; they joined with their blood, their lives; they fought for the struggle of the peoples; in their universities, in the streets of their cities, in their squares, they fought for Turkey. The U.S. 6th Fleet returned its men to the sea, the Butcher of Vietnam, to the country of Komer. (CHP) The worker was always at the forefront of the peasant resistance. We know well today, and we remember that they were defending the freedom, brotherhood and unity of the people on this vast continent, where people have been slaughtered for a hundred years. Who was right today, 45 years later? The revolutionary youth who hanged them and the collaborative executives whose names are not even remembered today? They have left us and our country with a back-up problem while we are dragged with dishonor in the ranks of the imperialists. In 1975, they provoked domestic turmoil in our embargoed country and dragged it to the coup of September 12th. The dictators and supporters of September 12th tried to find allies in order to eliminate the achievements of the republic's revolution; they saw Iraq's invasion as an opportunity by the United States; they tried to sell it as a means of disintegrating Iraq; they waited shamelessly for a share when their wealth was being looted; Libya was being looted by bandits. Then came Syria. The imperialist lie in the Arab-Muslim world was called the Arab Spring. Our people joined the campaign by opening up the borders. After all, U.S. flag armor has appeared on our borders. Imperialist invaders must withdraw from the Western Mediterranean, from the Middle East. Locals solve their own problems. The accounts and games of American imperialism on Turkey and the Middle East continue. We need unity and solidarity in order to be the subcontractor of these collaborative imperialists, to save our country from monotheistic and oppressive governance. Dear friends, Sea Gezdi, Joseph Aslan and Hussein, once again, with respect and love and longing, we cry out with all our excitement and sincerity: Down with imperialism!
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Konya MP Halil Etamamaz, who asked to be spoken on the week of occupational health and safety. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise that it will be Business Health and Safety Week from May 4th to May 10th. I salute you all. First of all, I want to thank them for this peaceful day of solidarity by our workers and unions, who celebrated May 1st Day of Labor and Solidarity last Monday. One of the main elements of social harmony is study peace. We have no doubt that for the establishment of labour peace, occupational health and safety must be ensured. In this regard, the level of business health and security in a country is also a reflection of the value of human life in that country. Dear lawmakers, occupational health and safety is a common problem for the whole world to address. Over 2 million workers in the world lose their lives every year due to occupational illness, 350,000 work accidents. Business accidents cost the world economy around $600 billion. This figure is estimated at about $12 billion for our country in 2016. In the field of occupational health and safety, we have submitted Law 6331, which includes all of our employees, both private and public, to the service of working life by enforcing law 6331, the first law of our country's occupational health and safety. In addition to having the standards that fit our country's vision for business health and safety, the approval of international Labour Organization contracts is of great importance. Contracts 155/161, which were not approved by 2013, were signed by the Treaty on Health and Safety in Buildings 167, and contracts on Health and Safety in Mines 176. A total of 36 regulations, 7 notifications have been issued, which ensured that occupational health and safety legislation is harmonised with modern and international norms. Dear lawmakers, 98 per cent of business accidents and 100 per cent of occupational illness can be avoided. I think the measures of occupational health and safety should be seen as an element that protects the health and safety of employees rather than a requirement that must be followed, which enhances efficiency and quality. The creation of culture will help prevent business accidents and occupational illness, prevent material and spiritual loss, thus bringing in the concept of the working person, instead of the concept of the working person, and all the workplaces and businesses gathered under the same law. A proactive, preventive, healing, and developer approach is adopted based on risk assessment rather than a strict approach. In order to reduce business accidents and occupational illness, improve the working environment of workers and improve the quality of life, we have done and done important work as the EC PARTI government. So, in this sense, we are aware that prevention is cheaper and more human than paying. The project for integration of occupational health and safety of students into the Education System has been launched into higher education before school. With the amendment to the SEC Law, we've imposed a mandatory job health and safety course in universities, where graduates can become occupational safety specialists. The mines were regulated by internal regulations, such as the shelters that could save the lives of workers during the accident or in an emergency. In addition, the employer will be banned from public tenders for two years with a court order at mining workplaces in which fatal business accidents occurred. Unaccompanied workplaces have been rewarded and the social security employer's share has been reduced from 2 per cent to 1 per cent. Building control agencies have been obliged to check conditions for occupational health and safety. As of 2017, there was an appointment of occupational safety specialists and workplace physicians. The number of joint health and safety units that present occupational health and safety services to workplaces has reached 2.384. As of today, a total of 105,475 occupational safety specialists 32,974 workplace physicians have been documented for service. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the distance and distance we take in the field of occupational health and safety is important and significant when we look at the work that I can and can't express all the time.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0006par0063	In this sense, we are not just walking to the health and safety of our employees, but to the goal of 2023, knowing the value of the health and safety of the entire community and doing whatever it takes to protect it. Again, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0007par0066	Thank you, Mr. Meatball. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who are now entering the system and asking for a word. I read the names of the MPs who requested the statement: Mr. Atici, Mr. Arik, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Arslan and Mr. İrmez. Ten people asked for a word today. Here we go. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the AKP continues to punish Mersin for not giving in to him. Mersin is number 6 in tax payment throughout Turkey, while 22 in investment. Investments are made by the sale of Mersin's assets. Moreover, the AKP is profiting from these sales, openly exploiting Mersin. For example, the Tefik Sırrı Gür Stadium was sold to the TOKI (a) and sports facilities were built with only part of its income. And now the Mersin Loafing Harbor is clearly attracting. It was announced that the Port of Taşlu would be privatized by handing over the right to operate for 36 years. Now, with a cheer, the port's very valuable backfield is clearly on sale. The country is being sold by the AKP. The AKP must remove its hand from Mersin.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0009par0077	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. President, history repeats itself for those who do not learn from history. Despite all the events that the AKP has dragged Turkey into the abyss, we can see that it does not learn from history despite its negativeness and suffering. Yesterday, the AKP, which handed over Turkey's key points for appointing a supporter to the country on July 15th, continues to ignore the truth and take sides with false interviews. What happened to the judgment being neutral and independent? Look, 90 percent of the 341 judges you appointed are lawyers who manage the AKP. Is this how you're going to pass a neutral and independent judgment? You're putting dynamite on the basis of the Republic of Turkey, based on this attitude, which is not based on Liyakati. I warn you, the judge, the police, the teacher, has no allies; the government has a judge, police, teacher. Make the appointment according to the law, not by the side. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0009par0082	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. I called the agency where a citizen who had been assigned to KPSS, but had been held for months, was bound only to find out why he wasn't launched. My advisor, Hüseyin Çanaak, MP of Mersin, would like to hear from the person who is concerned. The response on the phone was, "AK PARK MP, right?" Unfortunately, after we learned that we were CHP MPs, we didn't get any information about the matter from the person involved. I ask all of you, are the opposition MPs not the representatives of this nation? What are we doing in this House if the right to information that is not offered to a citizen cannot be given to that citizen's deputy? It's not acceptable for a bureaucrat to be treated accordingly by asking about a deputy's party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0012par0088	Thank you. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0013par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Omar Çelik (Muhammad) is: You know, there is a border dispute between Ceyhan and Erzin, even though investigators report in favor of Ceyhan. While this has not been resolved, the ports of various companies now in the area of BOTAS have been handed over to Alexanderun. You know as well as I do how this will affect the economy of all Adana, especially Ceyhan. When will you attempt to correct these two issues? Is Ceyhan and Adana supposed to be unclaimed, Mr. Secretary? You're from Adana, you're the Minister of the Government, when will you take care of Adana, and not today? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0014par0094	Thank you, too, Your Highness. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0015par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a virtue to know your rights and your place. Next to a great sycamore tree, an vine sprout grew along with spring and began to climb up into the trunk of the poplar tree, growing rapidly and almost reaching the height of the poplar tree. One day he asked the poplar tree: "How many months have you become like this?," said Karak: "In ten years." In ten years, the vine with its leaves waving and laughing? I came in almost two months with the same paint as you. Karak said, "You're right." He said, "You're right." And he didn't say anything else. Then, autumn came, and the leaves of the vine began to fade away, and they began to shrink down, and he was anxious to ask the curve, "What is happening to me?" Karak spoke his word, saying to the vine, "Because you tried to come to the place where I came in ten years in two months." Those who bow to the right bow to the right.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0016par0100	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our dear friends and all our citizens in the Republic of Turkey have reached the highest rate of inflation in the last eight and a half years, with an average of 14. Unemployment is now a victim of over 17, producer victim, shopkeeper victim, factory maker. Unfortunately, the AK PARTI government has squandered the country's entire budget in the referendum, and I'm afraid these figures will be even higher by next New Year's Eve. I'm inviting the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to the post. I specifically state that steps are being taken to improve the country's economy. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. President, we're surprised that the President, who took an oath of neutrality but had never been cut off from his party and was not bothered to side with it, was longing for the EC PARTY. The Prime Minister, who cried during membership, probably cried because the Prime Minister left. After the referendum, Mr. President agreed to what we said and said that they were hiding themselves well. He said that they were still hiding themselves. We warned him every time, but it can't be done." They said. This is a confession. What is your understanding of the hidden? What if a self-subject is appointed Vice President? We've been cheated again? The attacks are over. I speak to those who say, "A wrong assignment can deliver our country to ا." In order not to put our country in such danger, we said no. We don't call it that, but it's possible. We're fighting the law and we're looking forward to tomorrow because no, it's not over yet. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0020par0112	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Partial President clause of the constitutional amendment, which has been disputed by the YSK intervention, has been implemented. In the coming days, the party president will also be head of a political party. He'll use all the powers vested in the party-free president who's sworn to neutrality. The Constitution is the head of the state, representing the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. Will he represent the state or the party he's in love with? Will he defend the interests of the government or his party? I offer these vital questions for our country and for our future once again to the appreciation of all valued lawmakers and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0022par0118	Thank you, too. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0023par0121	I'm asking the Minister of Economy: due to the wrong economic policies you've implemented, annual TIFE inflation has been 11.87 per cent and producer inflation has been 16.37 per cent. Unemployment has risen to 13%, and the proportion of our young unemployed has increased to over 25 per cent. We're in the 130th place in 187 countries in terms of creating jobs. The State of Emergency economy has reduced our growth rate. From 1950 to 2002, the average growth in the single party and coalition period was 5.1 per cent, while the growth average between 2002 and 2016 was 4.6 per cent. We buy high-tech goods all the time, and in return, we export goods of low-end value. What kind of measures do you intend to take for this growing-down, economics-blocked market? When are we going to move from the economy of consumption and debt to the production-oriented economy? Do you intend to guarantee our exporter a prize in the face of fluctuating currencies? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0024par0125	Thank you. Mr. Irmez...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about one o'clock last night, the police who were on guard outside the MHP County Building in the District of Silopi last night were drinking a lot and drinking a lot of alcohol and driving while two brothers, Furkan and Muhammad, were six and seven years old, were sleeping in the living room while they were sleeping, and unfortunately, the wall fell on them and they lost their lives. The governorship, which has legally protected these law enforcement forces from using alcohol in the line of duty and such reckless behaviors, is the accomplice to this murder, calling it political power and the promise. We'd like to state that in particular. It is not acceptable for the governor to cover it up, especially by calling it fate. It's open and...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0024par0131	Thank you, Mr. Irmez. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0026par0135	Between May 4th and May 10th, it is the week of Business Health and Safety. The working environment and conditions of employees are a continuous improvement in health and safety. Occupational health and safety are a matter of uncompromising importance. You can't just see this area in the technical dimension. There are sides to the legal and social state of consciousness. On May 13, 2014, we established a commission after the accident that killed 301 of our miners in Soma. The commission's name:.... in the Soma District of Manisa, was researched for Mine Accidents on May 13, 2014, and we did a very important study on this commission for the Council Research Commission, which was designed to determine the measures of Business Health and Business Safety in this sector, and eventually came up with a two-volume report. This report included crucial assessments and recommendations for business health and safety, along with opposition martyrs. However, this report was not discussed in our Parliamentary General Assembly. I would like to remind you once again that as of today, we've come to understand the week of Business Health and Safety, the report of the Soma Mining Accident Commission must be brought to the agenda of the General Assembly. In this way, the legal and social consciousness of occupational health and safety will be shaped by the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is a duty to our citizens and hundreds of thousands of employees who died in business accidents, mining accidents. On this occasion, I would like to say once again that the needs of our country, as well as the legislation of occupational health and safety, as well as the developed country's legislation...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0024par0138	Complete, please, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0026par0139	...have to be re-examined under consideration. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0024par0141	Thank you, too. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0027par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the first hearing of the Suruç massacre, which took place 21 months ago and killed 33 people, was carried out by ISIS and some dark forces, will begin in Hilvan. Young people on the other side of the border were not silent about human suffering and the massacres of ISIS, and with all their good and revolutionary feelings, they had come to Suruç to make daycare, to build libraries, and Suruç was one of the darkest attacks in the history of Turkey when they made a press statement about their journey. After this attack on peace in Turkey, dozens of other attacks have been carried out and thousands of civilians have lost their lives. We are confident that there are very dark forces behind this planned attack, and those who planned it are not being tried in this case today, but they will be found out in the future. In the Suruç massacre case, the indictment was filed exactly 18 months after the massacre, and 21 months after the massacre, the first hearing is held today, 21 months after the massacre. Even this shows the point of justice and punishment in Turkey. The indictment charges only three defendants with a life sentence of a hundred and four times. There is no required punishment for responsible public officials, and so far only the Suruç Police Commissioner has been fined 7,500 lira for abuse of office. Today, in court, the families once again expressed that they wanted the case to be carried out seriously, with respect to the memory of their relatives.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0028par0150	Complete, please, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0027par0151	We will not give up the fight for justice until the original perpetrators are caught and the political responsible are tried. Today, likewise, is the 80th anniversary of the class massacre. We also honor the people we lost there. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0029par0154	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0030par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 32nd anniversary of the death of the revolutionary Mayor Fikri Sönmez, who ruled Fatsa with the people's committees. In 1979, Terzi Fikri was elected independent mayor of Fatsa district of the Army and ruled the district with the people. He was on the target board of the period. He was taken into custody on September 12th. He was kept in prison under the conditions of the coup, tortured, broken health and continued to be kept in prison, and he died suspiciously in prison on May 4, 1985, as a result of the operation, which began on 8 July 1980, under the direction of the Kenan Universe. We remember Terzi Fikri with him once again, with gratitude and mercy all his friends who have brought publicist municipalism to Turkey, with the people and the local government. In the week of Business Health and Safety, as Mr. Deputy Group President Erkan Bey has just mentioned, the Soma Commission report, which we were members of at the time, in spite of the great public expectation, said in those days that the Assembly had remained on dusty shelves and had not been brought to the General Assembly's agenda, and had the Ministry of Labor and Social Security failed to do any of the work on this matter, when the Ministry of Energy and High Resources had not taken advantage of any of the suggestions in the new mining laws that had been created by the Ministry of Energy and Precessssive Resources, and then the next disaster had come back and said these things, and the Commission would not have suffered if those measures had been brought to the agenda.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0031par0161	Complete, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0030par0162	We'd like to draw attention to this report, which has been held on the shelves of the House until they're close. We're really having a hard time understanding the opposition the ruling party has shown to bring this to the agenda of the House, its retreat. Today, twenty-one months later, the trial of that massacre in Suruç took place in Hilvan. Mr. Senal Sarıhan, Necati Yilmaz, Mahmut Tanal, Ali Şeker and Mehmet Gökdağ MPs are following the case today in Hilvan. As the Republican People's Party, the Suruç Solidarity Platform, as well as the public's true instigators of this case, and those who can't prevent that massacre with their deliberate flaws.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0031par0165	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0030par0167	We say we will follow the Suruç massacre, both with all its connections and with its intelligence weaknesses and with its deliberate defects, to be revealed in all its dimensions, considering the controversial process of that day between June 7th and November. I'd like to take a closer look at this case, which began 21 months later, and make it clear that we're not going to let it go until the day all the responsible are tried and punished. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0031par0169	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0032par0172	Mr. President, we wish our seven heroes, who have been in combat today in Haqkari Çukurca, who have been trying to infiltrate our military base district, who have neutralized eight terrorists and wounded them, an urgent cure from God the Lord. The issue now appears to be the result of the state of Turkey's determination to fight terrorism, and with major operations in the last period, the terrorist organisation's back has been broken and has reached an important point in the complete end of terrorism. In the northern Iraq Sincar region, the terrorist organization has suffered heavy losses with operations carried out in northern Syria, and domestically. In particular, the shock and sudden air operations against Sincar have destroyed PKK's lairs, destroyed ammunition depots and destroyed bloody terrorists. Every bomb that fell on the terrorist's head in Sincar was echoed by the delusional words of those who supported terrorism. After the Sincar operations, those who spoke for terrorism invited people to the street, called for riots, and betrayed the terrorists who died there as their brothers. No one has participated in the calls of the rebels who claimed the bomb that fell on Sincar had fallen on Diyarbakır. They have been frustrated and frustrated. No matter what anyone does, no matter what they try to innocentize terror, Turkey will not stop fighting terrorism and continuing its operations. If there's a terrorist with a gun, if he's shooting at our soldiers, our civilian citizens, our children, that traitorous terrorist will eventually be destroyed, and no one can stop him from being called his brother and destroyed. While hero Mehmetdjik Hakkari was a hero in the fight against the terrorist, he was a martyr, while a veteran's spokesman praised some politicians has hurt his public conscience. Does every politician with a mind, compassion, conscience and morality represent a terrorist with a bloody hand, a terrorist who kills children?
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0033par0177	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0032par0178	As we see this kind of praising of terrorism, our nation has seen once again how well the legal investigations against those who support terrorism by the independent judiciary were justified.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0033par0179	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0034par0180	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to file a report...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0033par0181	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0034par0182	Of course, there's a lot going on, and when our Mersin MP, Mr. Hussein Pineak, expressed it, he may have missed your attention. He's making a phone call yesterday, calling the Chief of Staff of the Turkish Public Hospital Foundation, asking for information on something. He's asking if our successor is an AK PARTY MP. No, the Republican People's Party MP. He says he can't give us information from the moment they're called. He's the Chief of Staff of the Turkish Public Hospital Foundation. The phone number is 705 10 00 and around 11 hours. I think that's something you should be dealing with directly. We are asking the attention of both the Council and the Council of Ministers to take into consideration the fact that this matter is being investigated, that the civil servants who serve in parliament's reputation and state institutions are not officials or government party officers, but officers of the state and that all Parliament must act equally at equal distance from the efforts of the citizens to address their problems.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0035par0185	Thank you. Mr. Pineak, get well soon. You've come across a situation that's really unintended. I just wanted to let you know that I'm interested.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0036par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit01spe0035par0189	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of our farmers in production and marketing, to attract fertilizer and diesel prices to reasonable levels, to properly use agricultural land to increase production, and to take the necessary measures necessary to all these issues, we propose that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98th, Article 104th and 105th of the Civil Charter. [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 14) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Isparta]] 20) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] Turkey's 77.9 million hectares of land are 26.3 million hectares of farmland. In recent years, however, agricultural land has been unconsciously used in many of our provinces due to distorted urbanization. Again, an unscheduled and unhealthy construction brought about by population growth in our major cities due to migrations within the country has caused the use of agricultural fields unconsciously. Much of our current farmland has been destroyed because of the lack of crooked urbanization, migration, and necessary measures, and it has become virtually impossible for our farmers to produce the rest of our farmland. So that, until recently, when our country was one of seven self-sustaining countries, the recent wrong policies in agriculture, the procurement of agricultural products abroad, the fact that the manufacturers were able to purchase their products from abroad, within six to twelve months of their purchase, our farmers were insolvent. In addition, when we add high gas prices and fertilizer prices, we can see more clearly where farming and production are coming from. In 2002, the price of a litre was $0.94, while in 2014 it was $4.56. Similarly, there have been huge increases in fertilizer prices, and in 2002, fertilizer was worth 162 euros, and in 2014, it was $546. In order to investigate the problems of our farmers in production and marketing, to attract fertilizer and diesel prices to reasonable levels, to properly use agricultural land to increase production, and to take the necessary measures necessary to all these issues, we propose that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98th, Article 104th and 105th of the Civil Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the recent increase in child disappearances, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental investigations of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105, under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate the causes of these cases, to clarify public opinion, to address concerns and to determine what may be done to prevent losses. [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 3) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mughle]] 18) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] Nearly 2,000 children are reported missing in Turkey, according to official records. The suspicion that children have been kidnapped by criminal organizations for many frightening reasons, such as organ trafficking, drug distribution, prostitution, has seriously occupied public opinion. Society is now shaken by news of the disappearance of several children almost every week. The long absence of lost children causes social trauma, causing families to live in fear. It is known that 75-80 per cent of the losses in Turkey have been found in the first 15 days, and that the best efforts of the family have been effective in finding losses, and that the remaining 20 to 25 per cent will not be underestimated at all or have been found years later. This causes a public unrest and insecurity. In 2009, three children who left the house to collect sugar on the 2nd day of Ramadan Day and were never heard from again were found a year and a half later, and children were brutally murdered. Also last December, after 8-year-old Bajram Erol, who had children next door in Tokat's Reshadiye district, and Dursun Khan Taşçı, 5-year-old, disappeared in the park near their homes, there was still no news from the children. There are hundreds of families in Turkey who have suffered the loss of their children. It is important that both families and children are trained in kidnappings. It is also necessary to review our legal arrangements for child abduction, to correct their inadequacies if they exist, to make the law a deterrent. Due to the recent increase in child disappearances, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental investigations of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105, under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate the causes of these cases, to clarify public opinion, to address concerns and to determine what may be done to prevent losses. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of our country's most important export products, the in-laws, including the town of Mut of Mersin, are required to open Parliamental research, as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order for Turkey to contribute more to the economy, to increase its share in exports and to take the necessary measures needed to address problems. [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 14) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Isparta]] 20) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] Although apricots are geographically scattered all over the world, the countries with the most intensive production are the countries next door to Europe and the Mediterranean. Apricot trees grow very well in areas where the summer is hot and dry, in the mountains, in the sun-lit south of the mountains, and in areas where there is no water. Malatya is the province of Malatya in our country's production of apricots. Baskil (Elazig), Elbistan (Heromanmarash), Gölbaşı (Adıyaman) and Şaş (Sivas) are often produced in the districts of Gürün (Sivas). The apricots produced in these regions, which are geographically close to Malatia, have almost the same properties as the Malatian apricot. Other cities produced in apricots include Nevşehir, Kahramanmarash, Iğdır, Kayseri, Elazığ, İcel, Ankara, Sivas, and Erzincan. In addition to Malatya, Niğde, Elazig, Nevşehir and Erzincan are used for drying, while other cities produce table apricots. Even though Malatya is the first to come to mind when it's called absorption, the town of Mut of Mersin will cover 80 per cent of Turkey's table apricot exports. According to data from the Food, Agriculture and Petting District Directorate, a total of 55,240 dekar apricots yields 912,113 fruit in the garden, while the county's annual recital of apricot trees is around 80,000 tonnes, but its apricot has not yet been asked to contribute to the region's people and the country's economy. Malatya apricot production is approximately 50-55 per cent of Turkey's age apricot production. In our country, almost all commercially dry apricot production is carried out in Malatya Province. An important portion of the produced dry apricot is exported. In Malatia, more than half of the people earn their living directly or indirectly. Not the apricot manufacturers produced in Turkey, but the most overseas vehicles win. There is a significant price gap between the price sold at the market and the price produced by the manufacturer. This causes the manufacturer to become unable to afford electricity, water, fertilizer, and so on until he collects the apricot, and to face criminal cases because he cannot afford to pay the loans he has received. Price instability has not been achieved at the level required for basic reasons such as spring frost events, lack of agricultural business sizes, lack of active producer and export troops and a regulatory institution. Again, the lack of serious publicity or publicity of the apricot in the national and international media, the lack of a study of apricot production and marketing problems is one of the reasons why our producers are in the situation today. Apricot production is still being done in traditional ways, causing significant damage to products. Therefore, new agricultural methods must be used in scientific methods. The sweet ones of apricot seeds are consumed as nuts, while the bitter ones are used as raw materials in cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. In studies, however, the apricot core, such as the apricot, is not at the level required to be considered as a shell and an inner shell. For these reasons, I would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be conducted to ensure that the in-laws contribute more to the region and the country's economy, increase Turkey's share in exports, and take the necessary measures to address problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, we will now discuss the suggestions of the groups. However, in the group proposal of the Nationalist Movement Party, which we will first discuss, I think there is a common position among the other parties. I'm gonna take a 15-minute break for this, and I'm gonna call a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. At a meeting Thursday (March 4/5/2017) of the advisory Council, İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush, Deputy Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair Mehmet Mus, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Manisa MP, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu, Deputy Chairman of the Nationalist Movement Party, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the groups, the proposal for a joint Assembly inquiry signed by the General Assembly on the behalf of their group, is to be read in the Union's unification today (now). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Erkan Akçay Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. As part of the decision is made, we move on to the part of the agenda for General Discussion and Parliamentary Studies. Since the motion for parliamentary research to be discussed has not been submitted to information, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The disease of celiac disease, viewed as a disease of the world's future, is also common in our country. In order to create awareness of the celiac disease, to take precautions on the diagnostic process, to investigate the reasons and consequences in detail, and to produce solutions in these matters, and to provide permanent assistance for patients who have been exposed to this disease, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104,5, and 105. MP for MHP Group CHP Group Deputy Chairman Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Mush HDP Deputy Leader of the Group AK PARTY Deputy Chairman of the Group The celiac disease is a systemic disease in children and adults with genetic predispositions of various proteins such as wheat, rye, oatmeal and barley (gluten) and, more than likely, an absorption disorder in the small intestines. The celiac can affect almost every organ, which is caused by various grain proteins, which have been damaged in the forefront by small intestines. As a result, celiac patients are unable to feed on any nutrients made of grain and grain products (bread, cake, cake etc.). And considering these victims, it won't be too hard to predict how difficult they are in everyday life. In this case, celiac patients have to pay attention to what they eat, drink, wear, and even take medications for other diseases. In order to be diagnosed with mostly secret celiac disease, this disease must be recognized by individuals and taken into account. The next stage is the diagnosis of the disease with blood tests and a biopsy from the small intestine. Diagnosis can be delayed due to non-recognizable health workers, and the cost of a diagnostic test is paid by the state, but is not made by unconscious health workers. In addition, health workers need to follow the innovations in post-professional literature and improve their awareness. At the same time, to increase that awareness, the number of gastroenterology sections found in hospitals must be increased and improved. After being diagnosed with celiac disease, the treatment is only by diet, and there are no other treatments. This requires a gluten-free diet. If celiac patients don't pay attention to their eating and drinking diets for the rest of their lives, they face many diseases, such as bone meltdowns, many forms of cancer. In order for celiac patients to take care of their diet, their products must be gluten-free. These products are sold at certain large shopping malls and are very expensive. The government's aid to celiac patients is very rare. Patients are paid $78.75 in age of 0-5 and $120 in age 5-15 and $108.75 in age 15. The social lives of celiac patients are also at a standstill. The places where they can eat outside are limited. In places that prepare menus for celiac patients, prices are very expensive. For example, one slice of water pie is $20, four slices of baklava is $50, one bagel is $5, and one bar is $12. Food and other sectors in Turkey do not make special products for celiac patients, so products come from abroad. A single brand produced in Turkey produces only cakes and biscuits. This is not enough, and these products are not available in every market. In addition, food products, medicines, clothing and cleaning products are also produced for celiac patients abroad, not only in the food industry. A parliamentary study is also seen as necessary in order to create awareness of celiac disease for the reasons revealed above, to take precautions on the diagnosis process, to investigate the reasons and results in detail, and to provide solutions to these issues, as well as to provide permanent assistance to patients who have been exposed to this disease. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0037par0044	Mr. President, I felt compelled to take a stand because we just received this footage. It's the one our Şırnak MP just mentioned, and it's 01 a.m. We're talking about the armored car, the police car that broke into the house and made a house look like this. I mean, human life has never really been this cheap. Two children, six and seven years old, died while sleeping. So let's all think about our children and put ourselves in their place. It can't happen, and these vehicles are going around the city without a care in the world, and they don't care about human life at all. For example, Van Edremit hit 3 citizens on April 17th; 1 dead, 2 injured.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0035par0046	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0037par0048	On the same day, on 17 April, they hit an 18-year-old citizen and were severely injured. On April 23, the Elif Age was injured by a police vehicle crash in Van's headquarters. That's the last thing in Silvio, and there's a lot of stuff we haven't recorded yet. And there's no investigation into it. So the Home Office should probably take care of that, too. Really, human life, right of life is respected for everyone, and everyone has to pay attention to that, especially the Home Office. There's gonna be a directive, or what's to be done, that these vehicles are going to have to move around the city and take care of people's lives. I'd like to point out that we hate to condemn this.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0035par0049	Thank you. Members of parliament, in order to determine the reasons and consequences of the celiac disease, we are starting talks on a joint parliamentary research proposal given by Justice and Development Party Deputy Mehmet Mush, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Manisa MP Özgür Special, Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Chair, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir and Milliyetci Movement Party Deputy Chairman Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of their group. Government? He's in position. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups and the first signees in the motions, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. Their talking time is ten minutes for the government and groups, ten minutes for the motion makers. Now, Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You will also speak on behalf of your group as well as as as as as a motion, so your time of conversation is 20 minutes. Mr. President, I've taken a pledge from the National Movement Party to express the expectations of a genetic disease -- desertiac disease and desertiac patients. celiac disease is a genetic disease, and it's a lifelong allergy and sensitivity to gluten. This allergy and sensitivity affect a person's immune system, disrupting many balances in the body, causing other diseases to occur, and unfortunately, it has a bad effect on the quality of a person's life. A genetic disease, celiac disease, can sometimes arise from birth, sometimes by triggering environmental factors, at an early age. It's a disease that is very affected by our traditional feeding habits. Gluten grains, such as wheat, barley, rye, and oatmeal, take a great place in human feeding. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the Reverend citizens, the celiac, a genetic disease, is a disease that is very badly affected by our traditional feeding habits. The gluten - bread, wafers, pasta, and chocolate, which our non-infected citizens can easily consume, can cause severe problems in celiac patients. The celiac patients who visited our group the other day told the National Movement Party about their problems. In our consultations, with a few changes, we felt that we could make our citizens' lives easier to deal with. And we think the government will consider the suggestions we're about to deliver in a very specific way. Respected lawmakers are only dealing with a special diet of celiac disease. The only known cure is the consumption of non-gluten foods. In fact, although it is very simple, the application is very difficult for various reasons. In order to do so, the government must use positive distinctions with celiac patients in the role of regulator. What do we mean by positive separation? For example, a small change of legislation should ensure that gluten-free food aisles are established in markets above certain square meters. In order to encourage non-gluten food production, taxes must be arranged. Although the exact number is unknown, I'd like to remind you that there are about 750 thousand celiac patients in our country. Let us make the lives of our brothers and sisters who live together and work together and who serve for this country easier. We, the National Movement Party, are on the side of all celiac patients and families in their nutritional sensibilities, as we have stated earlier in our motions. The gluten-free food found only in our major cities, such as Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir, is essential to all parts of Anatolia. If we are a great country, we must resolve this matter together if we cannot provide our child with a chocolate from Antalya Hebrew, or from Nevşehir, who is sick of desertia, or if we cannot get the pasta to our brother. Anatolia, which has hosted many civilizations for thousands of years, was originally referred to as agriculture and livestock. Today we have to move to industrial agriculture. For food safety, we must definitely remove genetically modified organisms from our food chain. The government and state are responsible for the health of its citizens, and the most important way to build healthy generations is to maintain a healthy and proper diet. It's very easy to control the food industry and provide the demands of our citizens with the resources we have as a state. Look, I'd like to share with you the price of a few gluten-free foods that celiac patients have to consume: the gluten-free pasta we get for two liras is $6, the gluten-free cookie sold for 75 cents, the gluten-free one is $9.50, and it's really not easy to find. Honourable lawmakers, honorable citizens, as you can see, celiac patients face an important cost of feeding. Social Security is paying between $78 and $150, according to age groups, for our patients who have a report. God bless our state, but this payment is not appropriate according to the terms of the day, it must be corrected. Most of the food consumed by celiac patients can now be imported from abroad, gluten-free foods, which are taxed like ordinary foods, make living conditions difficult for celiac patients. Look, from the moment the price of tomatoes has tripled, the price of tomatoes has been on our agenda for a week, and the celiac patients have had to pay at least three times as much for each purchase over the years. For this reason, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry must quickly implement programs to encourage the production of gluten-free foods in our country through a joint study. It is possible to facilitate the living conditions of nearly 1 million celiac patients and their families while state support is being planned. Maybe we're healthy today, but there's a tomorrow, so let's not expect trouble to befall us or catch a disease to take precautions. Great governments make great efforts to sustain every component of the health system. The most important part of the healthcare system is health workers. Speaking of which, I'd like to point out that there are certain rights that day and night health workers don't get, and they don't expect, and that's one of the rights to demand a share of wear-out. As the National Movement Party, we've expressed a sense of wear and tear about every word, and we've offered laws about it, and we've expressed our demands to Mr. Health Ministry every March 14th and then for the loss of interest. Both the Justice and Development Party government, their prime ministers and our health ministers have expressed their promise at various openings and meetings, and finally, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has voiced his right to the loss of health workers. We hope our Ministry of Health is about to conclude the work on this issue after 50 days, and we're about to hear about it. We think Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the founder of the Justice and Development Party and our President, will now bring up this waste share of health care that he gave to the medics, and we hope again that our Ministry of Health will implement the arrangement on this matter as soon as possible. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our fellow citizens, the reason we insist on this issue is that I am a health worker, and these health workers have been really persistently looking for us and have been expressing them to all parties in this House for nearly 15 years to get their demands done as quickly as possible. In fact, all of our parties agree on that. And I hope that with our President's instructions, this issue will come to the House as soon as possible, and we can all give this good news to our health workers together, because it's not a political issue, they've been waiting for a long time. And I see that the officials of all parties have just spoken -- they agree on that. In fact, our Minister has just expressed it here, saying he'll bring it up again. So, actually, as Congress, I think we can give our health workers some good news here. However, by God's permission, we will leave behind a period of distress when we are fighting coup attempt, terrorism, domestic and foreign resources. Fortunately, we have a strong state that can provide the answers they deserve to every focus that threatens the Turkish presence. Once they think they've destroyed us, governments who have left behind dozens of armored ship wrecks must learn from history once again. History tells us not to be dark. History tells us you have no need to fear any enemy. History tells us never, ever turn your back on your enemies. Now we must work for the peace of our citizens, especially security issues, after the referendum approved by the High Election Board. Our chairman and leader, Mr. State Garden, has summarized our country's agenda in the following four topics at our last group meeting: First, it is imperative that the fight against terrorism be carried out with a very effective, very ruthless, very determined, and very intense participation of the national forces. Second, in order to ensure stability in the presidential government system, harmonisation laws must be adopted by compromise, adapting state and community life to the new system as soon as possible. Third, social and economic improvements and structural reforms, which our citizens have been waiting for, delayed, neglected, simultaneously with the first two agendas, must be carried out immediately. The fourth is a chain-opener due to foreign policy, and the blinds must be dealt with together as soon as possible. For that, we must all work together in respect and love. As I end my speech here, I would like to thank all of you in your presence, thank you, and convey my love and respect to all of you, that this motion, which the National Movement Party has given to all parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we have expressed the expectations of the desertiac patients and their relatives, has been given a collective motion to be accepted together, especially our government and our opposition. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0038par0084	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the problems with celiac disease are at a very serious stage. We've already submitted several research proposals on behalf of our party, but it's a good thing that four parties have agreed today to come to the stage of the joint commission in this matter. First of all, I'd like to express it. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I would also like to point out that, really, there is a need to be special awareness of celiac disease, to be diagnosed correctly, to be investigated at the point of taking precautions. In fact, Turkey needs a map of its celiac disease to be detected, and that is why... The celiac patients also face a very serious economic challenge in feeding, so there is a very expensive supply of nutritional needs in their visits to our party, to our group, and to our knowledge. I'm sure all these measures will be considered in the commission. For example, their association has determined that their daily diet is $120, according to information that we have. We get the bagel at $1, but they have to buy it at $11, and they don't have gluten-free bread, they don't have ovens, because they can't get their own food at airports, in public spaces, and it's also a vital matter of finding food for them to live on. I'm saying that all of this will be resolved with this commission, hopefully by taking the necessary precautions, and I want to say that we, as the party, will be able to make the necessary contributions to the commission. But I also want to say that there are celiac patients in prisons, and they're in much more difficult conditions there. Years ago, I saw a lot of patients in a study on behalf of our party about sick prisoners. For example, I personally interviewed a prisoner called The Shield. He told me all about his difficulties. It's terrible to have a celiac disease out there, but being a celiac patient in prison is even scarier. We hope that in the future this commission will take the necessary measures as soon as possible. Dear friends, I don't want to bring this up any more since we're partners in celiac patients, and everyone's going to talk about it anyway. The country has a very busy agenda, and the developments are very hot. Actually, we had a motion for judgment, and we're going to download it again next week, but it's very urgent, so I'd like to mention that in a few headlines. By the way, I found out after I came in, and I saw it in the press, and with these CDC exports, they're really starting to cost us a lot of life, and we're hearing a lot of suicide reports in prisons, out there, but one happened next to us, and I read it in the press. On April 27th, seven days ago, here, backstage, in our lobby, a police officer who served in the lobby of the opposition committed suicide; Hasan Erkuş. So at the same time as that vehicle, I want to say how much damage this S.E.C. and the State of Emergency system has caused, even the security staff we're working with has been affected by it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as empty as it may be, I'd like to start by saying, "We're still our people." The judgment is in grave practice. Recently, there have been some staffing activities that Mr. Ydyak has been working on, and I have made a few proposals, and we have watched them carefully. It was very, very advanced, and 900 judges, 800 of the prosecutors from the AKP. So it's not a claim, it's all coming out day by day; it's names. It's not enough to say that there's something else going on here. Now, whether there's a judgment or not, what the judgment is doing, I actually believe we should discuss it. Because we're living in a process where he gets arrested for judgmental decisions, and we've said that a lot. The judges are ordering an arrest so they don't get arrested. Let's never let this out of our sight again. I mean, lawyer friends have a lot of classmates, college friends. I studied at Dicle University, and the law schools at that time were very few, and 80 percent of my class became judges, prosecutors, and I see most of them from time to time. I assure you, other than that, we have contact with judges, prosecutors, and everywhere we see them, we can see very clearly how much pressure they are under, how little contact they are under, how much freedom they lack. It can't be expressed by fear. So the judgment, along with the staffing, is also a major threat, outside of addiction, outside of commitment. Because he can't do his duty, he can't decide with his conscience. Our vice president, Idris Bauken, is still in Sincan Prison. There's been a lot of talk from this bench, and we said it, and we watched it, and it's Diyarbakir 8. The Chief Justice of the High Criminal Court has been appointed to Ankara as an executive judge for the decision to release him, and he has been punished. Again, while I was in Silivri, I'm not going to say this much, but I do remember that 21 people were released from Silivri, and we didn't sleep until morning. Why? Because the evacuations are out. We said, "What's going on?" They said, "21 people have been evacuated." Then the noise started again, and we said to the officers, "What's going on now?" They said, "What's happening now?" We looked at the news in the morning, and this is God, the entire court committee -- in front of me -- court chief Ibrahim Lorasdaku, Peace Giver, Necla Yeşilyurt Gülbiçim, HSYK; this is the delegation that has decided to evacuate. On top of that, they've been taken back into custody, and a significant part of them have been arrested. Now, we can't call it a trial, let's not kid ourselves. He's got to be suspended, he's got a kid, he's got a wife, he's got a life, he's got a career. What's he doing not to be suspended, not to be expelled, not to go to prison? He has to decide in the desired direction. So actually, the judge and the prosecutors aren't free, they're the ones in prison. They're trapped in their consciences by their own consciences because they can't make decisions based on their consciences. I mean, we're going to talk about the intervention of politics and stuff, and then we're going to talk about them in detail in our motion, but the clamps are so big, it's the judges who decide whether they're arrested or suspended. It's already from the AKP, right from the ruling party, there's nothing wrong with the people who were taken, the party is already doing what the party wants. I think it's time for the judge and the prosecutors to put an end to this. We also invite judges and prosecutors to the resistance, and in their conscience, they need to fulfill the voice of their conscience, the need for their legal education, before they really forget their sense of justice, without dulling it any further. Where's the fear? You don't live in fear, you live in courage, you live in resistance. We've always had a basic slogan. We'll win against the river. The judgment must really stand because there is no other way. So if a few judges go out and challenge me, I can't account for this conscience anymore. I'm sure thousands of judges will follow. They can't decide, they can't, I see, I hear, I speak, I get letters, I'm in touch, I'm sure you all have a lot of pressure because now there's a lot of pressure to clean it up. In the meantime, I'll write down, we'll clean up the ruling party, we'll clean up the community, we'll clean up the communities. Really, the judges who decide by order are not in the bars, but we think they're in the bars because their consciences haunt them for the rest of their lives. So instead of blaming the judiciary, I'm actually saying that we're all going to have to do great tasks so that the judiciary can become neutral, and I believe that's one of the most important issues these days. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0039par0095	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Gaye Beceer will speak. Here you go, Mr. Niceer.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0040par0099	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As a physician, I'm really happy to be speaking on a medical matter, not political. The celiac disease is a wound to society, one of the most important issues for medical staff and physicians, as well as the population of patients is a very important issue for their relatives. I think it's very important for those who are suffering from the issue, for the opening of this issue as a research motion in parliament, and then four political parties to agree on it. And from that point of view, I'd like to thank everyone here for this compromise. Now, celiac disease in Turkey is one of the major health problems. Of every 150 people, one is in Turkey. The prevalence of sightings actually varies from 1% to 3%, which we know is even more important in countries where relative marriages are high. Now, 10 percent of these patients -- it's the same in many countries, in our country -- can only be diagnosed. The estimated number in Turkey is between 250,000 and 750 thousand cases of celiac disease, but when we look at the number of diagnosed patients, Turkey has between 25,000 and 75,000 cases of celiac disease. Now, gluten allergy is a life-long, life-threatening, life-threatening food allergy that disrupts the patient's vital functions, and for the rest of his life, the individual needs a gluten-free diet. Now, when we say gluten, all we think about is barley, wheat, rye, oatmeal, and we say life without bread, not really. Imagine that a person does not eat a lifetime of bread, does not eat pasta, cake, baklava, wafers, boyz. We're talking about children, adults, a lifetime of allergies. Now, what are the problems? Why do medical staff, metabolism doctors often bring this up? Why do sick owners often visit all political party members, lawmakers, because of problems with desertia? For one thing, the disease has diagnostic problems. I've just told you, the actual numbers, the numbers that are diagnosed, represent a group of one-tenths. When we look at it like this, these patients are polyclinical, hospitalized, and they get very different diagnostics until they get a real diagnosis. We need a diagnostic problem solved with cooperation. Another major problem is that when we say treatment in celiac patients, we have to discuss gluten-free diets, easy access to gluten-free nutrients. Of course, with the diet, we can see that the costs of food, along with the easy transportation, are immediately involved. Some of these men's patients, along with the military, are not able to take this job together, but must be provided with the necessary arrangements and conveniences for military exemption. Another important problem is that we also have to accept these patients as disabled because of their current condition. It must include determining, documenting, and their entire lives. See, in the 24th term, our Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Free Private, has an offer on the matter. It's really important this semester, it's important last semester, and it's important in the period before that, but I think it's important that a different research commission be set up, that perhaps necessary steps can be taken on the way to a solution. In April 2004, an arrangement was actually made during the Justice and Development Party rulings, and they said: "Let a metabolic disease be reported to patients as a metabolic disease, a delegation report, and let the definition of the disease be defined by this mission report, and let those patients provide free transportation to food. Look, it's a very good arrangement, and it's possible in May 2006 that when the cost is too high, a new arrangement has been made, they say: let's give people 5 kilograms of non-glutenum product per person. Now, there's no production of gluten-free foods in Turkey, that's the problem. As Turkey approaches this problem, we must first ensure the production of these products. Gluten-free products are brought to Turkey as imported products, and we see in imported countries that the price of these products is seven times higher than the price of gluten-free bread in Turkey, with customs tax added because they were imported when the prices were very reasonable, for example, seven times higher than the price of non-gluten foods abroad, seven times more than ten times higher than abroad. So the first problem, and the problem we have to solve, is to ensure the production of gluten-free products in Turkey. Look, we're facing a much worse arrangement in 2011. On March 11, 2011, the Social Security Agency publishes a notice and says: "We're taking back some of the food products for the patient in the desert." What does that mean? Let the celiac patients eat the products we choose, but let them eat the food we find expensive, let them have the money, if they have the money, but other than that, they say we don't pay for it as a Social Security Foundation, and the obligation to prescribe all the products is removed in 2011. Look, by 2011, the doctor's report and the gluten-free diet were able to reach the desertiac patients, but that changes after 2011. When we look at where it came from, they say: "Now that we're giving up this prescription business, the celiac patients will then reach gluten-free foods with cash. " For example, if there are 5,000 lira in cash for a gluten-free diet per family, it is considered that families use it to provide for gluten-free food, instead of buying gluten-free foods, and the sale of gluten-free foods is reduced by 50 percent after this notice in 2011. Is the patient running low? No, the number of patients is the same, but most poor families are going to use cash money not for their children, but for their patients at home, for the general needs of the house. Another problem is that the Turkish Armed Forces are actually exempt from military service according to the Health Skills Act. What's the problem here? These patients are often diagnosed with biopsy at university hospitals, but at the age of military age, the National Department of Defense says: "I will not accept this diagnosis, I will redefine it, I will restart the diagnostic process." But in order for the diagnosis to begin, the patients' gluten diet is terminated. So they say: start eating gluten, symptoms or findings, and then we'll do diagnostics on you. And here we need to create something in common. As a final problem, the condition of these patients' disability needs to be discussed. Look, these patients must and must be considered food-impaired; for example, in Austria, celiac patients are considered a 65% disabled patient. And we have at least 50 percent of the disability situation being accepted, tax-free, disability reduction, easier employment, free benefits from early retirement, public transportation; I think we'll all build a more hopeful future for desertiac patients together when we take care of all of this. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0041par0116	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Vural Katuncu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0042par0119	My dear President, dear friends, dear citizens, celiac patients and relatives, I salute you all. It's a good motion because it's to establish a research commission associated with the problems caused by four parties, which it perceives as a common problem, and to explore solutions. I would like to express my special thanks to the four members of the group, for their sensitivity and sensitivity, because, in fact, not only are complaints being met in treatment of a disease or substituted for the disease-related loss, but studies are now in our health description, as well as those complementary elements that we call social participation, professional participation, and the completion of what we call "compliance." I don't want to talk about a health lesson here, but very simply a few very simple definitions associated with celiac disease: they did, but it's an immunological disorder on a genetic basis, which is immune to the immune system. Some bodies have a sensitivity to protein called gluten (Gulten) in grains, and when this body encounters this protein, grain -- when these extra foods for the babies start -- an allergic reaction is developing in the small intestines. There's a lot of indentations and protrusions in there that give the intestines absorption. Because of this immune system, these indentations and bumps begin to deteriorate, and when the absorption breaks down, various vitamins, minerals can't get into the body, some flaws and problems start to arise. It can be sneaky, it can stay hidden, there's some gluten entropy that comes out years later or never comes out, so it's celiac patients. It is estimated that there is a frequency of sightings between 0.3 per cent and 1 per cent, which is that there is actually about 500,000 to 700,000 patients in Turkey at this point, and we currently have 67-68 thousand patients registered, so there are more jobs to do, and there are still unrecognizable groups of patients. Some of this may be due to the fact that patients are not careful, and some of them may be due to their lack of sufficient attention in their medical care for various reasons. Of course it's about research. But if this disease is undiagnosed, there can be irreversible damage, and there may be causes that disrupt the quality of life, sometimes shorten life expectancy. Of course, in cases suspected of this, there are primary allergy tests. Allergic tests can be tested later with a biopsy if they're positive. After this diagnosis is diagnosed, of course, that's when the real work begins: a new life for the family and the patient, a new way of life, says hello. Because the only cure for this disease is a very strict diet, and this diet should never be met with protein called gluten. It's not an easy thing to do. So much so that even when a teaspoon of flour is touched with this gluten, there's a fever. Of course, to be exempt from most of the nutrients we use in our daily habit of living, to prevent a lot of them, especially at a child's age, these are all very important problems. Of course it's our duty to get over it. First you have to understand, what do these families, what do these patients face? The material issue aside, but in terms of accessibility, do these patients, for example, have access to these foods wherever they want, especially in public consumption places, markets, and important areas? Of course, we can't say that this is very common in all of Turkey. This is especially common in major cities, but I think what we need to do in all of Turkey is to get these patients to this type of food as easily as possible. Some of them are imported, followed by a regulation of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, according to this regulation. Of course, prices can be different when they come from abroad. So it's a need to support, enrich, and spread domestic production models. Here, as a diet contribution to these patients -- which has just been mentioned -- the Social Security Agency is now paying between $88 and $120, according to certain age groups. Of course, these payments are not enough to satisfy all the patients' needs. For this, arrangements can be made, but our traditional products need to be taught and developed in terms of how to make them at home with gluten-free special grains. You really have to admire the activities of the associations in this regard. Associations can produce different formulas associated with this, and on various websites, virtually transmit them to their relatives and study to enrich their kitchens a little bit more. There's been talk of disability. Of course, disability is the problem of accession from health-related loss, so if a patient encounters some disadvantages in everyday life because of his problem, they are disability. First, we need to work on a reduction in disability. In addition to these trainings, it is the most important issues for these patients to be able to access these foods, to be conscious, to have the diagnosis spread a little bit more awareness. I believe that these will be discussed in a very detailed way and that there will be important solutions in this commission. In the 2016-2020 Action Plan, which our relevant ministries had previously done, an important road map was drawn up, especially in this chronic disease and celiac action plan. These can also be guides, and if they are lacking, they will be completed, and they will be placed on top of them, and ours will be done in the best manner. I, again, thank you to all the groups who have contributed to this motion with these feelings. Again, I'd like to thank patient associations, responsible patients. With the best and best results of our commission, and the quality of life for our patients and relatives, I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0043par0128	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. Now, on behalf of the motion owners, we're going to go to the speech department, but Mr. Durmaz has entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0044par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Today Turkey's Grand National Assembly is experiencing another exemplary day. In that sense, I'd like to thank our esteemed group of vice presidents and the Presidential Court. A study and commission will be established on the common struggle and the necessary legal arrangements for the problem of 750,000 celiac patients. With that understanding, I'd like to thank my fellow workers already. At this point, of course, the problems of sugar factories and sugar workers that we have to pull back are also important in this sense. So it was the study of eating natural food that didn't recognize our body organism. In this country, who can't see tomorrow's factory being privatized; who can barely afford to water its diesel, its fertilizer, its watering money; who has sacrificed their children to migrating, with a similar understanding of trade unions, agricultural rooms, manufacturers, professional rooms, and all political parties.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0045par0137	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0044par0138	Thank you. I believe our sugar mills and candy workers will also have a common understanding of the problem. Of course, to open these closing offices and make the peasant the master of the nation again; to give our farmer TITV/free and VAT/free diesel for production; to solve the staff problems of honorful labor workers; to remove the cost of producing beets, which led to illegal sugar entry; to reduce the sugar panting system of our country's health; to reduce its production and social development project to the privatisation pool of sugar factories that were sprinkled on our country in the early years of 2016; to reduce the sugar panting system, which threatened the health of our country's health, such as in Europe --
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0046par0142	Mr. Durmaz, I'll give you one more minute. Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0044par0143	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. ...we will have a common goal in any future arrangement regarding sugar; I invite our producer, the peasant, the SECAR-workers, and everyone to meet in common understanding for our national sugar production policy. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0047par0147	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. Now, Mr. Aytuğ Thrower, the MP of Mersin, will speak as the motion holder. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Pitcher. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0048par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to support the establishment of a commission to investigate the cause and consequences of celiac disease. I salute the lawmakers who realize that our children are the common value of society, who don't use their children for their own purposes, who don't really do racial, native language, sectarian discrimination. Dear friends, I've been told in general what to say about celiac disease, and I've been asked to make a summary. We know that celiac disease is a small bowel disease. We know there's an allergic condition in the small intestines against a protein called gluten, which is found in the grains. When celiac patients consume these gluten foods, their entrails get smaller and smaller because of allergies, and nutrients become inert, and babies are starving. So, in the end, there are very serious problems due to eating disorder. We know there are around 70,000 celiac patients diagnosed in our country. Hence, a commission, such as setting up a commission to address the problems of these patients, perhaps cheaper diets, or free of charge, will be printed. We support this commission from the heart. Okay, so we understand about the celiacs. They're sick, they don't eat food because they're sick, and they're stuck. So, even though his guts are intact in our country, I wonder if the children are eating enough or dying of hunger? That's the whole point. We're going to carry 70,000 of our children, our patient, over our heads, of course, but are we able to feed those with healthy intestines? One of the constitutional duties of the government, one of the constitutional duties of the government that governs the state, is to feed its people in good health. Now let's see... I'm a member of the main opposition party, and you may be suspicious if I give you some results myself, but I'm going to give you some of the figures of the OECD -- Economic Co-operation and Development Organization -- which is in your hands. For example, TÜRK-İŞ -- which is not too far away from you -- says that the hunger limit in our country, where the Asgari price is 1,400 Turkish liras, is 1,518 Turkish liras. What does that mean? That means everyone who works for minimum wage is hungry in this country. Now, how far is it to avoid this? We're gonna go over this. In a country with a minimum salary of 1,400 liras, as important as this one, the poverty limit is again set at $4,945. So he says: "One of the five digits is below the poverty line. Look, they're not celiacs, they're normal; my mother, my father, my son, my sister, my sister. These are one out of every five digits below the poverty line. Can I give you a more dramatic number? In our country, 6.6 million people live below the age of starvation. These have good intestines, and they don't have any sensitivity or allergies to gluten in their intestines. Think of your children. 6.6 million people are below the age of starvation in this country, so 2 million families, 2 million families, are below the age of starvation in our country. Now, how do we look from Europe, and how does Europe see us? According to OECD figures, one-quarter of our children are poor, the OECD has updated these figures. According to the report of inequality, poverty in general is 17 per cent in Turkey, while poverty among children under the age of 18 is 25 per cent in the country, so one percent of every four children are poor in our country. Well, let's see who's having their fill. The OECD says, "Look out, I'm giving you an important report: the poorest 10 percent of the population receives 2.5 percent of your total income, even 2.3 percent of the society's poorest 10 percent use only 2.3 percent of our total income. So, how much do the top people in our society use with their pockets full, their bellies full, their backs full? 30%. See, the poorest 10 percent use 2.3 per cent of our income, while the most wealthy 10 per cent use 30 per cent of our income. I don't know what else to tell you now. Of course we're going to look at the celiac patients, of course we're going to look at all of our patients. I'm a pediatrician, and I know exactly what desert oil means, and of course we're going to deal with them, but there's millions of them back there, healthy and the millions our government has to care for. Look, the OECD tells us that in Europe, or rather among the OECD countries, the country with the worst conditions for children is Turkey. It clearly tells us not to be children in Turkey. Look, it gives you a lot of numbers, it says: the average poverty is 13.2 percent in OECD countries -- remember that number -- when you say 25.3% in Turkey, OECD countries, you don't think of big countries like that, for example, 2.7% in Denmark, the lowest poverty is 2.7% in Denmark. Let us look at those close to us: Hungary, for example, we have 11.8 in 25.3 Hungary; we have 14.3 in 25.3 Estonia; we have 25.3 in us -- which you don't like economically -- 18.7 in Greece. Do you see the numbers? So, how do these hungry children, these poor children, come to us? They're deprived of education. 190 thousand children drop out of school every year because of poverty and hunger, every year; 143,000 are their daughters. These kids are exposed to child labor. Eight million children work in this country because they are hungry and poor, most seasonal farm workers. They're getting married early because they're hungry and poor. The girl's early marriage rate is 26 percent under 18 because of hunger and poverty. None of these are celiac patients, my friends. Before he's 18, his father wants him out of his house as soon as possible. Children fall into a drug trap because they're hungry and poor. I'll give you the drug numbers in a minute. Look, I'm gonna have to bother you a little bit more. 200 people starve in our country every year, and for no other reason, they're not celiacs. There are 200 people in this country who die of pain every year. 11,284 babies die every year for various reasons, and we can't live with that. The kids in prison... We have prepared for you a book, and We have visited the children's homes one by one, and We have made it known to you that the children in the prisons are hungry. Under 18 years of age each year, about 2,000, 3,000 children in prison, 8,000 to 10,000 children between the ages of 18 and 20 in prison. These don't eat enough; I go, I see, I report because these children's feeding fees are collected later. The kids who stay with your mother... About 500 children spend every year with their mother in prison. The prison administration says: "You will either eat or the child will eat." The mother says: "I will go hungry, give it to my child. These are people of our land, and they have committed crimes under hunger and poverty because we are not well ruled; their mother has committed crimes, they have fallen into prison; and now we cannot feed them there. Dear friends, of course the celiac patients are important, but we need to protect and protect all the children of our country together, and we need to set up more commissions for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0049par0171	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım will now speak as the host of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] And you have ten minutes to talk.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0050par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are really easy to say, 750,000 celiac patients, almost 1 percent of the country. This is an important number, and it's important that political parties in parliament, which are now a social issue, have co-operated, at least for the first step. But we hope that the research commission will be able to provide for these patients, to address their problems, to cure their illness, as the ruling party steps forward. We signed this commission and the motion to investigate, and we've co-operated, no doubt, but I will inform both the Court and the People of the General Assembly on a different matter. Before we get into that, it's May 4th. May 4, 2017 is the 80th anniversary of our class term. On May 4, 1937, a decision of the Council of Ministers, under the name of Operation Tenkil of Tunceli, is being issued, and in the ten-ten-ten month period following him, unfortunately, tens of thousands of women, children, civilians, are being subjected to immigration in our city, whose name is called "Tunceli" as of the period, are being taken away from their families, and many of them are being slaughtered, and the girls are being forced to adopt elsewhere. I honor the victims of this terrace on the 80th anniversary of the May 4th lecture and the drama there. Yes, one of the things I'd like to point out to you is that under a project run by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in Diyarbakır's central Sur district through TOKI, people are still being forced to evacuate their homes as a residence. We live in a period in which violence is increasing in the world and in our country, and cities, which are the savings of civilizations, have been transformed into subjects of conflict, destruction, and dissolution. We will do Toledo, a person who knows little about Diyarbakır, who has been expressed by the prime ministers and spokesmen of political power. We raise the new government with love. A project is being carried out under the name of the public conscience. The city of Diyarbakir is a place where uninterrupted life has continued for 5,000 years. There are two other cities on the earth today that have influence like the city of Diyarbakır Sur; one in the Aegean, Faselis in the Aegean, and the other in the lower Mesopotamia. Faselis de Ninova, however, is not a city that currently exists, but Faselis and Ninova, who were founded with Diyarbakır Sur, have ended their urban lives. An idea of power that compares Diyarbakır Sur to Toledo also gives away how much he really knows Sur. Because Diyarbakir Sur could be likened to certain places, there is nothing similar about Diyarbakır Sur. Toledo has a few hundred years of history. Diyarbakır Sur is an ancient city with 5,000 years of uninterrupted life, and this city is a city of poetry, narratives, literary works, and songs. The dough of men is carved with the young of this city, with its sorrows, with its love, with its tunes, with its songs, with its temples, with its walls, with its structures, with its mosques, with its churches. Those who don't know this are not making central decisions from Ankara, they are not doing Toledo, they are doing nothing, they are serving only one thing, which is cementing. Anyway, look, what did one of our present Ministers of Environment and Urbanism say during the AKP administration? The sound of the concrete machine should not be incomplete in this country. A Minister of Environment and Urbanism says so. Let the sound of the concrete machine never fail in this country. I enjoy this concrete machine so much, its sound, the way it pats like this. Here's the concrete you call history, the concrete you call structure, the concrete of politics. It is not only a feeling that is felt to Sur, but it is the same feeling that the city's blocks, its cities, its historical monuments, are being approached by the mayor's efforts to take his will away from him with a trustee freak, if he is trying to force it out of his hand and manage it with a political decision, as he is trying to lock up his co-Chairs who have received Sur's representation and power. Let's move it from here. People who don't know Diyarbakır Sur could get mixed up. Two neighborhoods, Diyarbakır Alipaşa and Lalebey neighborhoods, Alipaşa and Lalebey, which are now on May 1, 2017. Every time we bring criticism to power, they're drawn to conflict there with the curfews for the last year. The project of the Ministry of Environmental Urbanism, which had never ruled the curfew, was not declared by Sur chapters Alipaşa and Lalebey and Lalebey since 1 May 2017, as was the project of 2015, not the project of 2016. This decision was made in 2010. When local governments, the people, object to the community, in 2012, President Abdullah Gul said, "Surlar is now under my protection." This destruction, this plundering culture, is based on 2010-2011. The neighborhood doesn't want it. It's 33,000 liras for your house, along with the neighborhood's yard. Let me tell any AKP executive, MP or minister: "Someone come to you and give you 33,000 lira for the house you use, which is not destroyed, which you still live in, and get out of here."
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0051par0185	Let's ask the Minister right away.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0050par0186	It's called bullying, it's not a law table. Besides, if it's about the law, I'll tell you about the Constitution, some laws, some international contracts where it's against the law. The decision made for Alipaşa and Lalebey is in violation of the Constitution's ruling on the 46th amendment of the Constitution and against property rights on the 35th Article of the Constitution -- as well as another violation here -- against Turkey's protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage Charter in 2015, along with Hevsel Gardens around the historic city of Sur. There is a violation of the Constitution, a freak of the law, and a violation of international contracts above the Constitution and international contracts under which the laws have signed under Turkey. Do you know where the destruction is? There's a total of 7,714 parcels in the wall, the destruction was removed for 6,300 parcels, so the destruction decision for 82 per cent, and the remaining 18 per cent, do you know what that is? It includes areas which have been nationalized by the TOKI as part of urban transformation. That's the approach to history, that's the approach to nature. Is this just for Diyarbakir Sur? Of course not. If the Minister of Environment and Urbanism of this country is enjoying the sound of a concrete machine, we are no longer amazed. What the AKP understands from the environment, ecology, urbanism is concreteization; we know from Hasaykeyf, we know from Iztuzu Beach, we know from the cyanide in Bergama, we know from Cerrattepe, we know from the Green Road in the Black Sea, we know from Munzu. We can say that in a lot of ways, and in a lot of ways, it's a lot more forestry, olive groves...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0052par0190	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0050par0191	I say that the political power, unfortunately, has a rather vulgar approach to nature and history, especially to many other places that we can care about and count, I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0052par0193	Thank you. As motionholders, Mr. Ismail Tamer will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0053par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about the motion that we've made for all parties in the parliament to form a parliamentary research commission together. I salute you all with respect and love. By the way, I'd like to thank my friends at all four parties separately. I'd like to express this union's reflection on our work in Congress as my greatest wish and desire. The valuable speakers who spoke before me, four of my fellow doctors, have explained more or less the whole subject of desertia. And I can briefly say that, with proteins called gluten, entering into the body, it's particularly an allergy to the small intestines that means the absorption from these protrudings, called. Why is the absorption disappearing? It disappears by destroying the villuses here. So the proteins, most of the food entering the body, are digested in the small intestines and absorbed from the small intestines. These foods that can't be absorbed accordingly cause a defect in the tissue structure of the small intestine, so there's also a malfunction in its function. Along with this malfunction in the function, diarrhea is caused by over-accession in the bowel. It happens when you're a child, and it can appear at another time in your life. This is difficult to diagnose, because with other diseases, his symptoms are difficult to diagnose because they are mixed with other diseases, but his definitive diagnosis, as your friends have already indicated -- with tissue biopsys -- is a definitive diagnosis, along with small bowel biopsy. What's the cure? The cure is the removal of gluten foods from the body. And as soon as these small intestines don't meet these foods, they regenerate and recover from the disease. Of course, my dear friends have pointed out that this disease is an important disease, celiac disease; its population in Turkey has also been expressed, from 0.3% to 1%. And even though we expect about 700,70,000 patients, compared to our population, what we've determined is that our Ministry of Health has about 68,000 patients. AS AK PARTY, we have done important studies both in metabolic diseases and in other diseases, as well as in celiac disease. My dear speaker from the Republican People's Party expressed it here. Especially the changes we made in 2004, because there was no government support before, and then there was a certain help. Then 2006, then 2011, and then 2015, with the changes we've made, we've done important work on these patients and we're trying to protect the patients. Is that enough? Of course not. I'd just like to do some research on these patients and say that we need to increase the comfort of these patients and return their individual rights within the community to them, which is the most important, as a social state, and we're the party that's doing it. So, with this parliamentary research commission that we're going to set up, we're going to be able to do what's best for these patients, what good things we can do for them, and hopefully we're going to discuss them together on that commission, and we're going to figure out what's missing, and we're going to take new measures. In each hospital, which is a gastroenterologist, with reports to these patients, we provided them with free access to gluten-free foods for about a year. There were changes in them. In particular, in 2011, the gathering of the Social Security Agency had increased, following complaints by the relatives of the patient about the failure of these foods. In particular, I would like to express that this has not only been about celiac diseases, but also about other metabolic diseases related to protein absorption. If I were to put it in terms of the months -- I'm saying this for patients with protein metabolism, who have metabolic disease -- when they were given $31 for 0-12 months, 50 per cent increased to 46.50, and the numbers went up to $120. There have been changes between 78 and 120 lira in celiac patients. Are these recent increases enough? We don't think it's enough. Our Ministry of Health is doing a study, and hopefully we'll find a road map within the scope of this study. Especially NGOs, universities, private sector... Some of the adult metabolism diseases, what could they be? The road map of the health ministry has been set, including thyroid, thyroid, osteoporosis, and gout. Together, hopefully, we'll be able to see the contents of their work, the width of their work in this House research commission. In this case, we have a 2017-2021 action plan. Of course, there's also the Department of Agriculture's work on patients because most of the food is not being produced here in Turkey, as friends before me have expressed, and they are imported abroad. Despite being referred to as gluten-free, gluten-based foods are also noted among the imported. To eliminate this, the Ministry of Agriculture is effectively able to control and control them. These are sometimes found to be written in 20 percent gluten-free foods. In this regard, our Ministry of Agriculture has been working carefully to make the import of these foods more accurate. In this context, I'd like to thank everyone for the sensitivity of all parties. Again, I would like to express to you that Ahmet Bey of the National Movement Party has expressed in particular that I will support him from this bench because health workers are literally our workers, because they are keeping watch nights and days without going home until morning, they are hard workers. I'd like to express that it should be our duty to give them our share of the wear and tear. Again, our improvements to health care are also very important. Of course, there have been some criticisms from Aytug Bey of the Republican People's Party, which I'm going to address as my dear brother, and I want to tell him from here that my dear brother, Turkey has come to a very important place in health. You know that in particular in a country, looking at health rates, progress in health, can be described as the rate of mother death and the rate of infant death. The rate of infant mortality in Turkey has now been reduced to seven-tenths of a thousand to seven-tenths of a century, to the standards of the European Union. When was this done? It's been done in ten years. In developing countries, this was done within thirty years. The mother's death rate is the same, while 64 in 100,000 are now down to the 17th. I'm saying this is a huge success in the health department of Turkey, but is that enough? It's not. We need to go further, he says we need to work harder, and I salute you with respect and love, and I say goodbye. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0054par0212	Thank you, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0055par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0054par0214	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0055par0215	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0054par0216	Are you going to make a statement, Mr. Horseman?
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0055par0217	Yes, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll be with you in a minute.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0054par0218	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0055par0221	Dear friends, the rate of mother and baby death is one of the best indicators of health in a country, and unfortunately, for the first time since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, mother mortality has also increased during the AKP period and baby mortality. Look, there's never been such an increase in any other government period, it has increased during the AKP era. Then it was reduced again, but it never came to European standards, unfortunately. I wish he'd come, and I wish he would. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0054par0223	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on parliamentary investigation motions have been completed. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not a parliamentary investigation should be opened: those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused to accept it... have been accepted. [[Applause]] And we, the Court, thank all the party groups very much for acting together in such a meaningful and beautiful way. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 15 members, those who agree... those who do not accept. Sustained. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months from the date of the election of the president, the vice president, the spokesman and the clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I wish good work to our fellow lawmakers who will serve on this commission. We move on to the section of the agenda's draft and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. We will begin negotiations between the Ministry of Environment and Forest of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Transport between the Iraqi Republic and the Ministry of Weatherology and Meteorological Studies, where it is appropriate to ratify Covenant Opposition, the draft of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Ministry of Customs and Trade of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report. The commission is here. The government is here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 359 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AUDIENCE REPUBLICATION PRODUCTION WITH REPUBLICITY REPLICATION AND TRACY DETECTION DETECTIVE REPLICATION OF COMMUNITY IN THE PRODUCTION OF CONTROLATION OF COMMITATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved of the Ministry of Customs and Trade of the Republic of Turkey on 15 January 2015 and the Joint Committee on Customs Areas between the State Customs Administration of the Republic of Azerbaijan. İstanbul MP Didem Engin will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0056par0255	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in a poem by the Holy Lord, look as you are or be as you appear. In this referendum, you played a theater that you staged, not as a Justice and Development Party or as you appear, but as a machiavelist understanding of deception and deception of our people by completely concealing the facts. On the one hand, you set up an offer for the politicalisation of the judiciary, and on the other hand, you hung up the banners for judicial independence. On the one hand, you've prepared materials that limit the powers of parliament, that remove the opportunity of lawmakers to ask verbal questions, and that put all the powers in one person in our country, and you've equipped the place with banners of yes for the Strong Assembly. You've shown the world how sneaky politicians who look out for the votes of our well-meaning citizens can conduct propaganda based on lies, and you've recorded the history of our country's democracy as a black mark. With this amendment, you've made our country open to any outside conspiracy by throwing it into a fire, into chaos. History has recorded the 26th Age Parliament as a Parliament that has limited its powers and functionality and has put our democracy on the shelf with applause. That honor is enough for all lawmakers who vote yes. You destroyed the moral dignity of the presidential office with the party presidency, allowing dynamite to be placed under the unity and integrity of our country. From now on, the President will not be president of the community, he will only be president of his own party, and that's how he'll respond. By politicizing the justice system, you destroyed the state of law. Now, in front of the whole world, they'll get used to it, looking at our nation's eyes. You're creating the political structure of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors in their indifference. You can't rule our country in this way, despite the awareness of democracy that our people have, with this constitutional amendment, which is not even accepted in the hearts of our citizens who have to say yes to your pressures. Because with this constitutional amendment, Turkey has become an unpredictable country inside and outside. Here are the OSCE and Venice Commission reports and the final decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. By whistling all you want in the cemetery, these decisions have no value. Say, the legitimacy of this referendum is being questioned not only in our country, but in the world. With your foreign policy already isolated from the world, these decisions will be very heavy in both foreign policy and economics. The reason why both domestic and foreign investors stop investments, increase capital outputs from our country, further decline of exports every year, further decline of tourism revenues, harderness of financing, the insurmountable scale of current deficits, the slowdown of the wheels of our economy, the rapid rise of bankruptcy, the influx of our streets, the influx of the unemployed army of our country, the immensity of our country, the fact that our country has been dragged into an unresolved vortex, the fact that it's only concerned about its own interests, changing the Constitution for its own interests, changing the state of the state, and changing its state into a state of the state that is running for its own. You talk about people's will almost every chance you get. In every argument in this House, you took refuge in the people's will, and you called it the people's will over our heads. Now I ask you, why were you afraid of the will of our nation in the referendum? Why did you try all sorts of pressure to prevent the will of our nation from being freely reflected in the chest? Why did you spend our nation's taxes without account? Why did you use taxes from all our citizens' pockets to provide the mountain with banners? Why couldn't you stand the posters? Why did you cut, tore, to remove most of the signs on the day they were hung? Why did you force high school students, public workers, to participate in your openings, your rallies? Why did you force subcontractors and municipal workers to vote yes, and force them to prove it with photographs? Why did you give to our citizens who said "no," "terrorist," "pattern," "traitor," "traitor"? Why? This referendum helped, which is that your nation's will is to pour out the polish of your words and show your true face to our people under that polish. I said in the General Assembly on this constitutional amendment proposal: The AKP will never remove this black stain, which is stuck on by this defective Constitutional amendment proposal. Whether the proposal passes through this House or not, democracy has already passed as an example to our history. With the signing of lawmakers who signed without seeing the text prepared by a narrow staff, with criticism and proposals ignored, without justification for our request for live televised talks, civil society agencies, constitutional jurisprudence lawyers, academics were not given the right to speak in the Commission, with their proposals to negotiate, by using the open "yes/yes" vote at the General Assembly, this proposal is now a sign that the AKP spirit can't be erased. With unsealed ballots and envelopes valid by the Supreme Election Board, with all the resources of the state everywhere in Turkey being mobilized, pressured, fraud, unlawfulness, and yes, there is every way to get them out. With their understanding, millions of votes have been made to be delivered to the dead, with the presence of millions of supporters waiting in front of the voting booths, forcing our citizens to vote instead of voters who have not gone to vote. All of this is a bitter sign that AKP Turkey is no longer a legal state. Here's your true face, your philosophy of governance, based on obedience and submission, here's your idea of democracy. You won't be able to talk about democracy after this, because every time you open your mouth to the term "democracy," every time you brag about the will of the nation, that's the sign of your idea of democracy, that's the Constitutional amendment offer, and that's the referendum. Our nation has rejected this constitutional amendment proposal, which has put our democracy on hold, despite state terrorism and any pressure, with the consciousness of democracy that it has. Our people will never accept that sovereignty belongs to a single person, not to a nation without conditions; they will never obey, and they will never submit. In my last parliamentary speech, this referendum will be the AKP's crash chest. I told you. AKP's collapse and isolation began with this referendum. The collapse of the party presidency, which you applauded, has accelerated. If you think you've made up the minaret, you'll soon know that you're wrong. The horse you kidnapped has not yet arrived, and the match is not yet over. What we experienced during the referendum and on the night of the vote has made the conscience of all our patriotic citizens who say yes and say no. All of our citizens who have a guilty conscience have a score to settle with those who choose unsealed, and those who prepare this metaphor in the first chest. This time you will not frighten our people with sticks, threats, oppression, cruelty. You will not be saved by your obligations in the Ark, nor by your election boards. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0057par0269	Thank you, Mr. Engin. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0058par0272	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0057par0273	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0058par0274	Mr. orator has made many statements about the referendum that are not the original astars. Yesterday, I made the necessary statements regarding the referendum. The referendum in Turkey was held in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In the referendum process, there is a statement used by the Hatiban who has used the expression "state terrorism." This is an absolutely unacceptable statement, and I'm inviting you to correct it, orator. A statement called "state terrorism" does not suit a Republican People's Party MP, it is not true.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0059par0275	You shouldn't want the facts to be corrected.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0058par0276	If they persist in their testimony, I'd like to say that we'll report it to our people. And no one's making anything up about the minaret. People must have handed everything over just as it was. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0060par0278	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0061par0279	Mr. President, I'd like to file a report. The facts aren't just what the AKP deputy leader said. The facts have been revealed before the eyes of our entire nation in the process of the referendum and the night of the referendum vote. Despite the constraint of the media, despite all the pressures, the truth is our nation, so I spoke in my speech, which has made the conscience of all our citizens who voted yes and voted no. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit02spe0060par0282	Thank you. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-04sit03spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of Bill 359 was not enough for the meeting. Now I'm going to repeat the open vote of the bill with an electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the compasses, please do not leave the General Assembly. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] I'm reading the names of the MPs who gave the compass: Mr. Halil Star? Here. Mr. Mustafa Yeneroglu? Here. Mr Selçuk Özdağ? Here. Mr. Abdullah Akrali... Mr. Nurettin Nebati? Here. Mr. Nurettin Canikli? Mr. Nurettin Canikli has voted Veysi Source. Mr. Bennur Karaburun... Dear Serkan Bayram... Mr. Emine Yavuz Gölke? Here. Mr. Emrullah Business... Mr. Hasan Karal... Dear Harun Karaca... Mr. Selva Pine... Members of parliament, since the second roll call did not find enough meetings, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (May 9th 2017) to discuss a number of oral question motions and legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
