tbmm-2017-05-24sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 96-alarm Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to invite the members of the group to the rear.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who asked for a comment on hunger strikes due to extraordinary state practices. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Pitcher. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding hunger strikes due to extraordinary state practices. I salute with respect and love all lawmakers who stand for work, bread, honor. Dear friends, those who have taken an oath of integrity and honor, the president is the leader of a party, and those seeking rights in the face of growing lawlessness and victims during the AKP period, where the judiciary is politicised, have reached the point of giving up hope of the law. Today, for ten months and four days, in other words, three hundred and eight days of extraordinary behavioral practices, many wrongly, unlawfully and inhumanly discharged civil servants have either committed suicide or started a hunger strike and put their bodies to death or faced heavy social and economic problems. Only two of them have been sitting in Ankara's belly for a hundred and ninety-three days and seven days on hunger strike, saying, "We give our lives, we don't give our lives, we don't give our rights, we don't obey the law." On the 75th day of the hunger strike, instead of listening to what these people are saying, the AKP has decided to arrest them by raiding their homes at night and then arrest them. Do you realize how cowardly you are after what's been done to these people who are not afraid of death? Many people from Pir Sultan Abdal associations, lawmakers from mothers to young people, have supported this resistance, which has been launched to voice the common demands of hundreds of thousands of victims of extraordinary circumstances. Once again, I cry out to this bench for these legitimate demands: to be removed from the state of emergency, to be reinstated as revolutionary, democratic, and innocent public workers who have been laid off, to be relieved of their arbitrary and unlawful work. Ankara Kızılay, mothers and friends who wanted to continue the honorable struggle of Nuriya, and Semih, were dragged to the ground, kicked, pulled out of their hair and taken into custody by police force. Friends, be empathic for a moment, think of your own mother or wife. In what faith, what morality does a mother who wants to save her dying offspring fit, to be bullied and dragged on the ground? Think of your mother for a moment. That was not enough, the Human Rights Monument, which became a symbol of the action, was blocked by police barriers. Guilty as charged: the Memorial of Human Rights. His lawyers shared with the public the questions addressed to Nuriya and Samaria. These people were asked embarrassing, disgusting questions to be ashamed of humanity: There was a video of you playing guitar and singing, and you liked it. Have you ever considered that the people who share are members of the organization? What is the real purpose of this act in the view of the Masumane search for rights? Another question: What is the purpose of your public act of hatred and hatred - free from the search for justice? The lowest question is, what benefits are offered for you to perform the act of death? Friends, you killed humanity, you killed humanity. These questions are actually an indication of how weak the AKP government is, how terrified it is. Today, anyone who is fighting for rights is accused of being a member of a terrorist organization against power. The AKP continues to provoke people with its rights, lawless practices, and sow seeds of hatred and hatred. But the only purpose of these people is to stop the injustices. As a physician, I warn you, a hunger strike that enters its 77th day can cause death or permanent damage after this phase. The emergency practices must be terminated immediately, the right demands must be considered immediately, and the hunger strikes must be terminated. It's the duty of all of us human beings. People with some humanity left in their hearts need to listen to those voices. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The second word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Muharrem Varlı, the Adana MP who wants to speak about the farmers' problems. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have taken an off-the-book promise about the farmers' problems, their problems. I salute you all. I'd love to have Mr. Minister of Agriculture here, too, because we've been saying it all the time, and we've been saying the solution, but it's not being applied, it's not being done. So, I was thinking if the Minister were here, if he'd listened to this, maybe he'd contribute a little bit, but unfortunately, they're not here. In a day or two, the wheat harvest will begin in Çukurova. The market is now worth about $1, but when the harvest starts tomorrow, I believe the trader will try to draw it down. That's why I'm warning the TMO General Manager and the Department of Agriculture that the TMO should step in as soon as possible and announce that it's a down payment. Now, if the price of wheat goes this way, it's in the farmer's favor, but if those prices are lowered tomorrow, it'll be against the farmer. For him, if he doesn't want any improvement against the farmer, the Department of Agriculture and the government must immediately announce the TMO price of wheat in advance and announce that he will receive it at a prepaid price. This will regulate the market. If they don't, they'll have abandoned the farmer to the merchant's initiative, at his mercy, and the merchant's mercy probably won't be in the farmer's favor. Look, before the corn harvest started last year, I told you to come in here, get TMO on line, get TMO on line, and let him explain that he's going to buy it with a down payment on the price of corn. But after the corn harvest, TMO stepped in, and unfortunately, the corn prices dropped as low as they could, and the farmer sold the corn for between $670,000 and $700,000. Do you know how much corn costs right now? Right now, corn is 900,000 liras with old money. Is that the answer to God's favor? Who won this money? Whose pocket did this money go into when it was supposed to go into the farmer's pocket? You're always shouting, you're always saying that the people who make money out of money are in the pockets of those who make money out of it. Come, let's protect the farmer, keep the money in the farmer's pocket. The farmer who breeds, the farmer who labors, the farmer who spends his night and day, who earns the money? People who make money from money, people who live in plenty of money, buy or put corn in storage, three months later, sell it at high prices. I mean, is that what they're all about? Is that the farmer's right? Is a farmer a stepchild in this country? I'd like to present this to the attention of the Department of Agriculture. Again, fertilizer and diesel prices... look, I've told you here every time, thank God you removed the VAT from the fertilizer; and you did it well, and it was a good development, but the removal of the fertilizer from the VAT did not reflect on the farmer again. Right now, the fertilizer prices are going to hell. Why? Because the top fertilizer of the corn is going to be thrown out, when you need fertilizer the most. When you need the most fertilizer, the fertilizer prices have gone up, VAT rights. So the farmer didn't have any gains, and the farmer didn't have a penny in the farmer's pocket because of the removal of the VAT. Mr. Prime Minister has made a statement about the diesel, and the good news to the farmer is that we will receive 50 percent of it. He said Mr. Bazili Yıldırım. Where is it? The farmer still burns diesel at $4,500,000. Look, I told you in my last speech, when yachts and cotra owners are using diesel for $1,700,000, while they're playing with trillions, when the money owners are people, when they're using diesel for $1,700,000, they're putting $4,500,000 in diesel into the farmer's tractor. My dear friends, doesn't that make you feel guilty? I appeal to your conscience. So when are we really going to protect the people who are producing this country, and when are we going to contribute to it, and when are we going to support it? So you're saying something, good. So if only you could afford 50 percent of the masoth, if you could do something nice, it would be in the farmer's favor. You said it, but there's no one standing behind it, and there's no progress on it. But yachts and cotra owners put $1,700,000 in diesel on the yacht they bought for $25 million. Come, put your hand on your conscience, which is right, my dear friends. I mean, we're being critical here, but we're being right, we're being critical. Please take these into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr Varli. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Ayşe Sula Köseoğlu, who asked for a statement on the day of Tripoli from May 25th to May 28th about the day of Ataturk Cultural Center. Here you go, Mr. Köseoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable MPs, I'm here to inform you and give you an invitation for tomorrow in Ankara, which we consider to be very important to my city as the Congressman of Tripoli, to help our people to merge, to meet, to contribute to their unity and unity. Tripoli has been an exemplary city in Ankara, other provinces of Turkey and even abroad for years. On the basis of the days of Trabzon, which will begin tomorrow, we are once again displaying the beauty of Tripoli, the rich cultural elements in Ankara, the capital of our Turkish capital, the Ataturk Cultural Center. This year, as every year, he truly believes that his interest in Tripoli will continue to grow, and I want to express that we, the Tripolins, are very happy to introduce the values of Tripoli. Tripoli, as we say at every opportunity, is a city that leads on many things. With its own culture, music, horon, rich cuisine, Tripoli manages to surprise and enthrall everyone who knows him, the heir to thousands of years of history. Tripoli is the capital of sports with its infrastructure and sports culture, which has dropped the most sports facilities per square metre today. Tripoli is an art city, the city with the most artists per square meter, a new attraction on the way to becoming Turkey's new shining star in tourism. Tripoli deserves to be recognized and introduced with all these qualities, with both the past and the present. On the other hand, these events, which are now traditional, have far more meaning than the introduction of a city. What our country needs most today is a beautiful example of unity, of brotherhood, of all opinions, of people's convergence, of political values being shared and discussed. In addition to many of our citizens, many of our most valuable politicians here have hosted a number of important people of politics, culture and civil society. Such activities are an opportunity to bring together our people in different ethnic and cultural communities that live in our country. When we see our differences in wealth, we will have laid the foundations of a universal and meaningful culture together. Such events have brought the West and the East closer together, and the North and the South embrace. At the same time, this culture embrace connects the past with the future and connects the generations. These events, which have led young generations to witness the diversity of culture, also allow our children to be investigated, questioned, thought, and empathized with their customs. This rich culture that sprouts in the Black Sea and spreads throughout society has been a guarantee of unity and unity with its reflections throughout our country. Today, more than 500,000 Tripolins live in Istanbul alone. Today, in Ankara, in Bursa, in Hospel, in Van, in Amasya, in Hatay, in many of my country's provinces, our fellow citizens take care of their customs and customs and embrace our nation and our state with unity and unity. My precious Regents, as it is known, Tripoli is a city of civilization. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, Governor Yavuz Sultan Selim, is the birthplace of Sultan Suleiman, who ruled all over the world, and the city of princes. In addition to its original history, it has a rich culture and art. It's a symbol of unity and unity with its hormon, and it's in the heart with its lasso and pipe. It has created a variety of flavors and cultures that are present at our table from Egyptian flour to enthralling, kale to anthrax. For example, from Sumela Monastery to Longgöl, I desire the participation of all our lawmakers in this event, which we can introduce in every way, from the cradle, which contains all the shades of blue and green, to the green and green. As he said, there is mercy in the company, and punishment in the division. Let us unite with the Black Sea, the Aegean, the east, the south, the west, and the inner Anatolian. It's time to join the day. We've always said that Tripoli's "T" is Turkey's "T"). Tripoli is the cement, the unity and unity of this country. I invite you, our precious representatives and all our fellow citizens who are watching us on screen to live and to know our ancient city, Tripoli, as a guarantee of our unity. Let's all play hand-in-hand horons, take care of our brotherhood, our unity, our traditions, each other. Let's get acquainted. I wish you all the days of Trabzon, and salute the great assembly with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0007par0058	Thank you, Mr. Köseoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's one minute before I go on the agenda, where I'm going to make a short commitment to the first 15 members of parliament who enter the system. Let's start with Mr. Hurriyet. Here you go, Mr. Liberty.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0008par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. In the draft draft on the Ministry of National Education Guidance and Psychological Advice Services Chart, other tasks, such as seizures, courses, such as training teachers, or class teachers, are required to be carried out. If this comes to life, it will bring with it the wrong practices. The guidance counselors form a bond between parents, students, teachers, and administrators, supporting the teacher to improve himself. It is an area that contributes to self-esteem, development, problem-resolving ability, and harmony in life, not with note anxiety. Psychological counselling and guidance services in schools are more vital and sensitive than discipline and seizure, the window to the colorful world of children. While the blind lame education system doesn't even progress in this way, it won't be much better if the psychological advisors refrain from consulting. It's our wish not to be wronged in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0009par0068	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0010par0070	Mr. President, thank you very much. I spent the night in one of Ankara's old hospitals last night because a relative of mine was ill. Unfortunately, I saw the sad state of the health system set up by the AKP, where my feet failed. Patients are miserable, paramedics are incompetent, everyone's in one place, dumped. At each opportunity, Mr. President of the AKP, during the referendum, the President would go out and say, "O Kilicdaroğlu!," and point out the hospitals. I suggest to him that the hospitals are hospitalized, miserable, people are waiting on the road, outside the doors, and that is not appropriate for the great Turkey.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0011par0074	Mr. Dalkulic...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0012par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. ▪ We live in a time too busy and too far away to attend funerals and near enough to announce our own death in a telephone message to our friends, says the precious Akif Emre. As a result of his heart attack yesterday, we lost the value of our age, Akif Emre. God rest his soul. He lived his whole life upright, as he was commanded, and suffered the agony of his trial, and stood firm as an elf. The precious person left us yesterday. We offer our brother, Akif Emre, God's mercy to our brother, our condolences to the press community, our condolences to his loved ones, and our condolences to our country. I hereby bid my Lord take him to heaven with those whom he loves. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0013par0080	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0014par0082	As of today, Turkey is living its 309th day in extraordinary condition. The AKP apparently loved the State of Emergency and intends to continue the State of Emergency until the elections of 2019. The House has been eliminated while our country is ruled by law. More than 100,000 public officials were expelled in the name of the so-called struggle with ا, thousands of academics, thousands of scientists lost their jobs, universities were evacuated, academic freedoms were destroyed. At least 37 of the exporters took their own lives. Freedom of the press has been put on hold. The prisons were filled with respected journalists, and our country was transformed into a semi-open prison. I'm speaking with the abandonment of Ziya Paşa, who organized a congress with the slogan of democracy: You think everyone is blind, stupid in the world?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0013par0083	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we have gathered in Milas, the Republican People's Party MP from the 24th term, and we have issued a declaration in response to operations against the Speaker and Republican newspapers. The Speaker's newspaper is one of the most important addresses of the free press. Opposition operations against the opposition press are unacceptable. The freedom of public information cannot be declared. Freedom of thought and thought is fundamental human rights, not to be violated. Unsealed voters can't seal the doors of any newspaper. When history is writing down today, it will not be written by those who have attacked the opposition, but by those who have not returned a day from the fight. With our regards.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0016par0088	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. A decision has been made to be closed until July 1st, with the decree issued on February 9, 2017. The closure of study centres is a danger under any circumstances; it will allow both our government and its owners and employees and our children to suffer material and spiritual loss; it will compel our children to the under-level centers, which are unregistered, so to speak, and will also pave the way for the construction of other congregations, such as the Fetullah Community. No one can guarantee that a new group of terrorist organizations will not be revealed anytime soon. So I'm asking the Minister of National Education: why don't you think about solving this problem and preventing new victims, which are inevitable to happen by co-planning with corporate partners instead of having to shut down the study centers? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0018par0094	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country's rule of law and its withdrawal from the principles of the legal state leave no room for further accession talks with the European Union. Georgia and Ukraine, which have made comprehensive and successful reforms, have won visa-free travel to the European Union, while the Justice and Development Party's commitments to the EU, which failed to fulfil its commitments in June 2016, were sadly imagined. The ruling party must give up populism, eunuchs and dictatorial regimes, bringing in the common mind to meet the standards of the European Union. The head of the Justice and Development Party should make its first step, not in its political interest, but in the interest of 80 million on the road to membership of our national state policy, the European Union, during talks in Brussels tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0020par0099	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0021par0101	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister of Health: this morning, the medical dealer attacked the Chief of Medicine with a gun. In terms of deterrence, will you cancel all the contracts the attacker received? A TUS lecture class filed a lawsuit against 10 questions published in the Medical Master's Exam, which took place on April 22nd. These cases prevent the OSS from announcing the results and cost physicians five months to begin the mission. We've had 50 questions cancelled in the form of advertising in the form of ten years. But the greatest victim of disagreements between the OSCE and the TUS classroom is physicians who have been held for months in vain. Doctors who are tired of waiting for the trial process...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0020par0104	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0022par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, as a member of parliament, have an appeal from all group administrations, which is in the name of sports, in the name of East Anatolian. Today evening in Istanbul, Vodafone Arenada Erzurum and Güverhanesporın 1st. It's the final game for the league. As a fan, we would very much like to be in that game as a substitute; there's a gene question, the program is busy. On behalf of the MPs, I request that this program be changed, on behalf of the people of the region, and I invite you all to the stadium to go to the game. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0023par0109	It's easier, change the Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0024par0110	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0025par0112	Mr. President, after July 15th, we offered the law that every foundation college that was closed would become a public university. We won two state universities with the signatures of all MPs. Then I proposed a law that academic and administrative staff who worked at these closed universities would continue to work in new universities. At the University of Democracy in İzmir, the departments were not opened, the staffs were not opened, but we hear the appointed chancellor say that he has already filled the ranks, and we learn that the name has already been opened. So I'm asking the government, why did we open these universities? Are we going to extradite the victims of the academics, or are we going to hire the wife of the Bronzesiper? If the victims are not to be removed, then isn't there a second victimization after the death of these innocent people? We expect all political parties to support the proposed law on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0024par0114	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0026par0116	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: your political power and your Finance Ministry has so far built bridges with an unprecedented model of the building-and-enforcement model. 1) Did the Treasury vouch for foreign loans for Osman Gazi and Yavuz Sultan Selim bridges? 2) Who are the contractors of these two bridges, guaranteed loans, customers, and profits, which are not in Turkey and the world? 3) What is the daily number of vehicles committed for both bridges? 4) How much more per day or month is paid for vehicles that do not cross both bridges? 5) Can you explain how long the bridges will remain in the contractors' business and when they will be returned to your Ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0027par0123	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0028par0125	The sub-employee is the one who works with the sub-employee all the time and doesn't get what he deserves. Today, there are 750,000 subcontractors in the public, almost 2 million workers in total. Subcontractory is a non-union, unsecured, low-paid, yearly, non-compliant working hours. This practice must be abandoned for colonial purposes. This does not fit in justice and justice. The slave system of the 20th century must be terminated. The AKP pledged three months before the elections, failed to keep its promise, played with the workers' feelings for the vote. I'm calling on the government to make sure that subcontractors, seasonal workers and temps are recruited immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0027par0127	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0029par0129	Mr. President, with the pressure, silence and intimidation policies against Republican and Speaker newspapers, the freedom of the press in the country has unfortunately fallen underfoot. In particular, the election of May 19 is a threat to Republicans, Ataturkers, secular and democrats as the date of the operation against the Speaker newspaper. While the pool media close to AKP has praised the terrorist organization, he has struggled to expose the ugly face of this organisation and its co-operation with power. These efforts of those who have been working hand in hand for years with the terrorist organization will surely be in vain. No matter what the government, the Speaker and the Republic will do to silence the newspapers, they won't be able to cover up the facts. The sun will not be covered with clay, nor will the AKP-AKP cooperation, which has lasted for many years, be covered, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0027par0130	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0030par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. With the practices of my constituency of the last 15 years, Bursa became as if he had turned from the green Burma to the gray Bursa. And finally, we've been informed that in the center of the city, the green area of the armory, the area where the people there can breathe, the area where they can walk with their families, they're trying to build, and it's being planned. First we heard that under the name of a military home, then the last of the greens would be fully developed. This is where we call power: once we turn green, we'll have no place to breathe. Do not touch this place so that it can live as an old person. Because it's the last place living people can breathe, and it's a first-degree status area, we don't want to go to a zoning change, and we don't want this area to be sacrificed to Ranta and concrete. I invite the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to take part in this practice of the Grand City, with all due respect.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0027par0134	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0031par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. A major reported a coup at 14.30 a.m. The Undersecretary of MIT shares the matter with the Chief of Staff. Isn't it strange that despite a coup call, the President, the Prime Minister, the Interior Minister, was not informed? On what grounds was the report of the coup not shared with these authorities? If the coup hasn't been reported to these authorities, why haven't these authorities asked the Undersecretary of MIT and the Chief of Staff? 22 out of 14.30, where the report was reported. What happened, what happened, what happened, and why was no measure taken despite the reports, and why was the coup attempt not prevented? Or did these authorities condone the coup attempt? Did they think that by order, we could suppress the coup attempt and silence the people on this occasion? All evidence indicates that a clear controlled coup attempt is on those who condone the plague of 248 of our fallen citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0032par0139	Congressmans, I promised the first 15 members of parliament, but we have two lawmakers who can't get into the system because they asked me to. Mr. Bektaşoglu and Mr. Yıldırım, I promise our last two friends. Here you are, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0033par0143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Public workers, Nuriye Güln and Semih Özakça, who have been wrongfully discharged from their duties with the KHK, without evidence, without legal evidence, and then started a hunger strike, have been beaten and sent to prison after two days of waiting in the police cell where they were forced to be taken in a wheelchair. These two people who have been on hunger strike for seventy-six days have been left to die in a high risk of infection. This treatment can't fit into democracy, law, human rights, the universal values of human rights, morality, conscience. I'm speaking to the government's concerned minister here: for their efforts, these two educators who are willing to die for their bread should be released immediately and extradited immediately. These events show that Turkey will be worse than before. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0034par0146	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0035par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. The only 18-point single man defended by the ruling and its followers is the most important clause in the bill, which they themselves do not believe in, and by the direction of the neutral and independent judiciary, there are daily arrests by unjust, unlawful, illegal, illegal decisions, such as the arrest of academics on the latest hunger strike. Mr. Burcu Çelik has been arrested and put in prison. He wants to take the three-year-old girl with him. Our deputy and his child and no child should belong in prison. With a completely arbitrary, hostile and illegal decision, our congressman, who's a hostage in prison, can be tried and raised without arrest. The child's stay in prison with his mother is also against the Convention on Child Rights. He invites the ruling and parliament to take an initiative, and the consciences are not supposed to consent to it, and as the poet says, don't kill children and mothers, sirs.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0036par0151	Congressmans, I will now promise the members of the group to their seats. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0037par0154	Thank you. Twenty-four years ago, on 24 May 1993, after taking civilian buses from Malatya to their masters, we remember 33 of our soldiers who were shot down by PKK terrorists on their way to Elazıg-Bingöl and were killed in mercy, gratitude, and prayers. It's probably the greatest human right to live. I advise those who are innocent people, where they are from, who are martyrs regardless of who they are, and who are not concerned about those who are martyrs, to take another look at it in terms of human rights. The 61st article of our Constitution pledges that the state, the war and duty of the martyrs will protect the widows and orphans and the mauls and the veterans, and will give them a proper life level in society. As members of the National Assembly, we must first do what is necessary for the families of our veterans and martyrs under this commitment. However, we don't give away enough rights to martyr relatives and veterans, war malaise, combat veterans, malnourished veterans. We see a lot of them trying to survive in poverty. On the other hand, they have different names -- gas, war maul, combat veterans, maul veterans -- and their status is different, and their rights are very different, and there are serious injustices among them. One of them is about the honorary pension. Now, the most important criteria for honorary allowances are the country's service criteria. Thus, within the framework of this criteria, for example, both private and general receive the same salary in terms of their service salary, but since they were then brought here a different criteria, whether there was social security or not, honorary monthly has been different. This seriously hurts our honorary veterans.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0038par0159	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0037par0160	We believe that the criteria here are to remain the criteria of service to the legislature and to be paid a salary of honor, regardless of whether it has social security or not. Another difference: there are also significant differences, especially between martyrs and veterans of July 15th, and those who are martyrs of terrorism. And here are those who are essentially not considered veterans in any way, so those who were injured during the fight against terrorism are seriously victimized. Here's the thing: Associations paid us a visit today. There are people seriously injured. Here, for example, I'd like to show you this X-ray, maybe it's on the screen, walking around with a bullet in its heart, with 400 shrapnel in its body. These people, for example, can't get through the x-ray devices, so even if they take off all the clothes at airports, they don't have a vet's certificate, so...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0038par0163	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0037par0164	...they're being seriously victimized. Their demand is: they don't want a salary or anything, these people who have become veterans and have been severely injured for this country, they just want to take this honorary title, the title of a veteran. Therefore, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we need to be more sensitive about this. As a nationalist movement party, we have a lot of law proposals. I think it's very important for society that these law proposals be taken into consideration and these injustices be dealt with. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0038par0166	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Timberboy, I don't think you're in the system. We're going to turn it on. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0039par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we can't do any of the good news. First of all, it's a very painful situation after the 75-day hunger strike of Nuriya Gülmen and Namih Özakça -- perhaps the first in the history of the world -- that people who have been on hunger strike were arrested and taken to prison -- were arrested yesterday, with very incredible questions, with the prosecution's interrogation. The state is responsible for its citizens' right to live, and I hope the governments are aware of that, so there's nothing more than telling them that we live in a country where the consciences are completely rotten. There are different examples of this. Today, unfortunately, at the Silivri resuscitation center, we found out that an Iranian woman hanged herself and killed herself, and two of her friends who testified to it were taken to a mental hospital. So the country's been turned into a hell of a place where people are unhappy... of course, I have another example of what caused it right now. On December 12, 2016, his students were sentenced only to reprimanding the teacher who was photographing them with a rope of death. The teacher who shared it in the social media account, who taught the students not love, but hatred, anger, was only condemned.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0038par0173	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0039par0174	Now, when we set out from here, of course, the sayings of the rulers above, such as a president who watches his violent bodyguards in the United States for minutes -- I don't know how many minutes of real violence can be watched -- in such cold blood -- or a teacher who gives his students a rope of execution -- will not set the stage for the country to have a better future. Finally, I'd like to talk to you about an update on our deputies. A new practice: New arguments, which are not really part of the crime, which are not included in the indictments, which are not related to the proceedings they are being tried, are now being referred to as "knowledge of knowledge." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have one sentence left.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0040par0178	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0039par0179	So it's being tried to create an air that, look, fine them, there are other crimes, but don't evacuate them, and don't say that they won't be tried. Otherwise, yesterday, on the previous day, our beloved Group Vice President, Demirel. We saw this in his decision, saying: "The state of long imprisonment is out of the question, so the defendant is not suspended from the work of the Parliament for a long time." Yeah, we're saying let the law go, let politics get away from the judiciary. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0040par0181	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0041par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty-four years ago, in 1993, 33 of our soldiers were taken down on a road trip and brutally slaughtered. They were soldiers born 1974-1975. There were six kids left, babies left. Those babies are 25 or 26 years old today, but despite all the time that's gone through that great pain, it's clear that we're both burning inside and that the necessary sensitivity to this issue, the sensitivity expressed in those days, and that the state's promise of state is still unresolved, that the speculation on the event is unexplained, that the negligent ones have not been punished. Yesterday we said about England, and let's put it one more time today: terror is a crime of humanity, no matter who it is, and it must be damned. Today, we have received an invitation from Mr. Speaker of Justice and Development, where the new Chief of Staff will participate, and the Prime Minister will also be represented by the Prime Minister's office, who is in the process of destruction. And in addition to the invitation, there's something incredible. Parliament Speaker gives information on a number of renovations he's done on the House, construction work, all very controversial, full of sanctions. In the sadness of that July 15 coup, when we're all miserable here and interested in the essence of the matter, here's what makes the nation's Parliament a nation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0042par0188	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0041par0189	If people are going to build the People's Assembly, you're going to make it out of treasure, you're going to make it out of money, because it's with the taxes from the people's hard earned money, it's with the holy taxes, if it makes the nation's Parliament a nation, but it's the allies of the nation, so they do it without asking anyone. It's the painting that came out. You're looking at backstages, a tasteless hotel lobby, a rest area of an SPA center, or a view that looks like neon lights and pavilions; it's embarrassing. Now, in his last paragraph, Mr. Kahraman wrote: "The Parliament was built in 37, and there was no money, and it went on to 60, because of the impossible. He doesn't answer the need. He wishes this place would be destroyed and built again, sir. It's not like it's crazy. It's obvious what they're doing at the mall... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0043par0193	Mr. Special, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0041par0194	...the building where the MPs live is in the middle, where they do the mall, which is not consistent with the historical fabric of the House, with its visual installation. Now, he's gonna build this place, do something that answers the need! It's unbelievable. Look what he's done: 18 articles of the Constitution have changed -- and I also present to you the attention of the National Movement Party -- the flag red has turned Constitution into a royal turquoise, this is the new Constitution, and that needs a reaction. It paints the color of the palace; it's not a mind-blowing approach. The palace likes blue, they like turquoise, they make turquoise carpets, all red carpets. The color has changed all the way to the orders at the restaurant, so much waste... Here, the only man whose transition to the regime of the forces has brought the separation to underfoot is the unsealed, completely shady, but not legitimate Constitution, which turns it into the color of a palace, like saying, oh, let it be. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're gonna turn this around, and we're not gonna make them tear down this coven. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0044par0201	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0045par0204	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by saying once again, by condemning the terror organization, the terror organization that had brutally murdered 33 of our civilians, defenseless and defenseless soldiers -- who were on their way from Elazıg-Bingöl on 24 May 1993 -- by the bloody PKK terrorist organization -- and by mercy of 33 of our martyrs -- on the road of Malatya. In their own eyes, I cherish all our martyrs who have given their lives for our country's undivisable integrity, for the unbreakable integrity of our country, and who drank the testimony, as well as our martyrs on the 15th of July as soon as possible. If we didn't have martyrs in our country today for the unbreakable integrity of this country in unity and unity, we really wouldn't have been able to do this work within 780,000 square miles of unity and unity and under the roof of this House. The last time was July 15 coup attempt and invasion. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that I have condemned the stand against the 15th of July, against the heroism of our heroic nation, against the command of our beloved nation, on behalf of our heroic nation. This mistake must be returned at once, and this statement must be stopped at once. We all lived together on July 15th. Bombs fell on us that night under the roof of this House. We took a stand, we held the national will together, and our heroic nation took a stand against tanks, cannons, F16s, the unity and unity of his country, to give his life in the streets.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0044par0207	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0045par0208	In that sense, it would be helpful to underline it again. However, in the next few days, we will realize that May 27 was the first military coup in 1960. In the wake of that military coup, a prime minister and two ministers were hanged in our country, and those decisions were made on that day, which were held in the history of the Yassuada Trials, which was all over the world, and were a black mark on our democracy, in our history of democracy. And so, by the time we reached the 15th of July, our nation showed us once again how to write a heroic tale with its life against those who wanted to fetter the national will. In this sense, we need to pay attention to those words. And on Saturday, hopefully, we'll all be able to understand the first day of the 11th-month Sultan of Ramadan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish my vows.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0046par0213	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0045par0214	I convey my wish to the Muslim land that blood and tears flowed in Muslim geography as soon as I wish its head to mercy, forgiveness in the midst, and salvation from eternal torment, may bring blessings to the whole world of Islam and Muslims. I remind our country today that we must take a stand against all terrorist organizations, including the PKK, the DEA, and the terrorist organizations, and that we as politicians need to pay more attention to our rhetoric than anyone else. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0047par0217	Thank you, lawmakers. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Grand Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System, which has come from Melen Tea to the province of Istanbul on pipelines, and the reason for the delay in the project as of the date of the proposal for the study of the operation to bring water to the province of Istanbul, is with respect to the opening of the Parliament under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105. 17/2/2016 [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] 4) Suleiman Senser Ayata [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 6) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] 7) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 10) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Janitor]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] 16) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 17) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 18) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] [[Eskişehir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] The Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System, developed to meet Istanbul's long water need, is a pipeline from Melen Tea to Istanbul province. The project is also described as Turkey's largest water supply work. If the Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System, which has been going on for more than a decade, is completed, the average water problem will be reached at 1,180m cubic metres of water and will be resolved by 2040. At the present point, we see that the project's outcome is not shared and is not completed on the date it should be completed. The Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System consists of four phases: I. Stage: Building an 8.5 m3/s (268 million m3 per year) by building a regulator on the Great Melen tea, pumping pumps and 185 kilometers of pipe and tunnel system to deliver the purified water to the Paper House on the European coast with a capacity treatment plant 750,000 m3/day. II. Phase: Transferring 307 million m3 a year through the Great Melen Dam and the second pipeline; increasing pump capacity and building a new decontamination plant. III. Phase: 307 Hum3 water transfers per year through the third pipeline; increasing pump capacity and adding a new decontamination plant. IV. Phase: Addenditions to the pumping stations for additional 308 hm3 water transport (800 000 m3/day additional capacity) and energy supply system for the Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System 1. The stage work was tendered by the 11 separate jobs package. Seven of these groups are related to construction, three of them are related to production, and one is related to energy supply. These packages have been tendered to a consortium of eight companies. Big Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System Contract Packages: The Melen Project has 11 business packages, and besides that, there is a job as a consultant. From our business packages (SP-4) and (SP-11) to the final account and final acceptance phase. SP-1: Melen Regulator, Melen and Republic Pump Stations [[51 million dollars.]] SP-2: Melen Promotion Resort-Beyond Back Pipeline Laying [[$49 million.]] SP-3: Interborder Pipeline Tilt of Rebellion Back-Resolving Facility [[$45 million.]] SP-4: Chile Control Center, Yeşilvadi Pass and Tunnels With Jesus [[$104 million.]] [[$43 million.]] SP-6: Republic Promotion Warehouse-Interrestment Pipe Landing [[$30 million.]] [[$120 million.]] SP-8: Pipe Manufacturing and Temini [[1. Part]] [[$82 million.]] SP-9: Pipe Manufacturing and Temini [[2. Part]] [[$79 million.]] SP-10: Pipe Manufacturing and Temini [[3. Part]] [[$20 million.]] [[$43 million.]] The tender for 11 (11) business packages owned by the Grand Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System was held in 2000 and was instructed to start work in early 2001. The SP-4 (Translation Package) of these business groups (Silence Control Center, Yeşilvadi Pass and Jesus Tunnels) has been resolved and the SP-7 (Turkish Tunnel) business has been terminated. On the DSI General Directorate's website, one regulator, 135km of pipelines, some pump stations, and the Republic Purification Facility have been completed. There are decontamination facilities, pump stations, pipelines, and the Great Melen Dam, which began on December 28, 2012, when the tender was held on May 20, 2012. And it seems that many packages have not reached 100%. Some projects and facilities have been tolerated in Düzce concerning the Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System. The Great Istanbul Drinking Water Project Melen System has been suspended for some time after Düzce's alleged title of province. Allegedly the reason for the cancellation is the attitude and pressure of businessmen who are said to be close to power. And at the same time, the Düzce claimed that investments against CED decisions were allowed to be allowed to spill industrial waste in Düzce into Melen Tea. Following these procedures, the project was reinstated by the Council of Ministers' decision. In addition, the amount spent on the project at the end of 2011 is estimated at $3,517,818. However, it is alleged that the price of the contract is $1 billion, 314 million. The difference is around $2 billion and $200 million. The first phase of the project cost about $1 billion 954 million, except for the 2012 spending. The project's tender price appears to have reached 2.7 times the cost. The reason for this gross discrepancy outside the price of the tender must be answered and distributed in detail. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Melen Tea, located between the basins and streams that provide drinking water in the province of Istanbul, is contaminated by wastewater. I respectfully announce the opening of the House by Articles 104, 105, in order to determine the rights loss and violations of the Constitution, which are threatened by public health and the life of all living beings and by the defamation of the State of Düzce in the central village of Esençam. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] 5) Suleiman Senser Ayata [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] 7) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] 16) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] 19) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 20) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Tunceli]] [[Eskişehir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] Melen Tea, located between the basins and streams that provide drinking water in the province of Istanbul, is contaminated by wastewater. On February 28, 2011, the Department of Environment and Urbanization of Düzce Ili agreed to establish a high-level waste disposal facility 200m away from Melen Tea, located in the village of Esençam, Chilimli district. Düzce Province's Esençam Municipality Level Bertaraf Facility, which is only 200 Melen Tea, was only 200 Metres away from Istanbul's Water and Canalization Administration (İSKİ). Despite the fact that the drinking water is located within a short-range containment area, according to the Water Basins Protection and Control Administration, İSKİ has allowed a solid waste disposal facility to be built contrary to the Convention on Drinking Water Basins. Although the door of the facility has been sealed despite complaints and demands of citizens, the door is known to be torn apart with the seal and the garbage trucks continue to dump garbage in the facility, as the environmental community states. Sewers and industrial waters of the counties are being evacuated to Melen Tea on the grounds that there is no treatment facility in the districts of Yükülca, Kaynaşlı, Gölyaka, Gümümüova and Fridayyeri. At the slaughterhouse in Gölyaka district, the giblets are poured out on the edge of Melen Tea in a municipal vehicle. The sewer water is also released to Melen Tea in Lakeyaka district, where the sewer pipes are connected to the collapse pool. The simple collapse facility in Kaynaşlı district also appears to have failed to function. It has been discovered that a tarp laid out in a dug hole was preserved in a pool of dirty water and thus discharged into Melen Tea. Despite the solid waste disposal plant in the flat city centre, industrial and industrial waste are also involved. However, because the solid waste disposal plant does not have a chemical decomposition/discrimination property, industrial and industrial waste is mixed into Melen Tea without decontaminating. It is stated by the people of the region whether or not the floor selection of the solid waste disposal plant in the area of the Ilmen and science Hasans/Hecinler is correct. The site of the solid waste plant is said to be on a fault line and is located on a sloped terrain. Therefore, during a possible landslide, there is a risk that all solid waste and toxic water in the pool will cause a disaster by blending in with Melen Tea. Although the solid waste plant in question is called a facility, there are only two guard huts that do not have the equipment and equipment available to operate as a facility for the current location. It is not understood by us what the expenditures were made during the establishment of the solid waste plant, and it is not known whether these expenditures are in accordance with the procedure for public interest. Due to the environmental disaster of Melen Tea and local settlements, the safety of water and food in the region is at stake and the health of the people and other creatures is in danger. In the village of Hecinler, Düzce Province, garbagewaters and sewage waters are carried with screws and left in clean water flowing from the mountains to Melen Tea. From there, the waters of garbage and sewage flow to Little Melen, which flow through the mountains into clean water, and spread to the plains of Düzce, where they will be delivered to the farmland. Because of agricultural activity in the region, the quality of agriculture is falling through the water used in agriculture, and the crops are being transferred with harmful waste and water. In this case, every human being that has ever reached agricultural crops is at risk. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, the change in the education system has reached 41 per cent of the number of girls leaving the education process before entering the upper secondary and higher education stages. This number also causes us to fall behind in terms of international communities. In order to determine the measures that must be taken in order to prevent this situation, and to make legal arrangements, we make it necessary for the opening of a parliamentary investigation under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98th and Turkish National Assembly. 18/02/2016 With all due respect. [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] 13) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Janitor]] [[Mersin]] 19) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Endangered Ideas [[Mersin]] 22) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Dropping out of school has become one of the main priorities for education in many countries' education policies and reducing their dropout rate. In a country's educational system, it can provide clues to the economic, social and cultural conditions of the country where students leave school and leave their studies behind. Knowing the consequences of dropping out of school, societies are increasingly trying to reduce the problem. In our country, it's a huge downside to the fact that different studies on the size of the problem of dropping out of school are not being conducted. In 2013, 39.9% of girls in Turkey are forced to leave or leave the education process before entering high school and higher education stages, according to the European Departure Report. This means that 40 out of every hundred girls are advanced in education, and as a result, the vast majority of them are deprived of employment. At this rate, Turkey is by far the first among European countries. In our country, female students are at a disadvantage in continuing to attend school, while the opposite is observed in European countries. According to the Education Reform Initiative's 2014-2015 Education Watch Report, the proportion of students leaving secondary school early in 2014 is 38 per cent in Turkey and 11 per cent in EU countries. According to the same report, the proportion of young women in Turkey who left the educational system without completing the mid-school education between 18 and 24 years old is higher than men. As of 2014, 41 per cent of young women and 35 per cent of young men left without finishing their middle education. The Turkish Teachers' Union, MEB 2014 Executive Action Report reported that in 2013, the school abandoned 174,625 student elementary institutions, while 234,932 students who were educated at primary education institutions left school in 2014. Although there is a digital improvement in the education of girls, especially in elementary school, the new education system has a great part in pushing girls out of education. The introduction of 4+4+4 instead of mandatory training made it easier to leave the training in the middle, allowing Turkey to take first place in Europe on leaving the education. The low level of education makes girls unprepared even for the most basic roles in the house. In Turkey, where 75 per cent of working-year-old women are not included in the registered labour force, the effects are much greater. The pattern to stay out of basic education drives a large part of the country's female population out of working life when they reach adulthood, and as a result, the economy is deprived of valuable human resources. The negative consequences of dropping out of school affect people, families, and the whole community in different ways. The most important negative outcome of this situation is low income, low tax and low professional status, unemployment, criminal, incompatible and antisocial behavior, depressed mood, suicide, dissolution of society, low self-esteem and negative health. We think it would be helpful to open a parliamentary study of the Constitution, which is a key factor in the economic, social and cultural development indicators of the countries, in order for girls to be left half-explored and to investigate the reasons for education and to determine the measures that need to be taken, and to establish the measures that need to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and predicting whether or not the parliamentary investigation will be opened at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 24/05/2017 (now), I would like to propose that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On April 21, 2016, our motion to open parliamentary research on the reasons for the pollution of the Grand Menderes River and the basin of Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu and his friends, given 1596 points and the presidency of the TBM, has been proposed on Wednesday (now) to be read in the General Assembly, where their talks will be held today. The first speaker, Mr. Deniz Depboylu, in favour of the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0048par0462	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on our proposal for the cleansing of the Great Menderes River and its basin, the determination of our citizens, our farmers, our land and our nature, to determine the problems that have been set up and to work on solutions. Before I begin my speech, I salute the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear MPs, the date of the release of this proposal is April 2016. In fact, we've been waiting a long time for this motion to be brought up to the establishment of the research commission, but when we saw how big the problems were, we felt the need to ask ourselves to withdraw. Menderes is now the third most polluted river in Turkey, unfortunately, after Ergene and Gediz. The Great Menderes River has two basic problems: First, the Great Menderes River has a problem with the main water mass and its arms and its links to these water masses, the pollution that affects the lakes. Another is the problem of changing the morphology of water masses in the Great Mendes Basin, irreversibly, and deforestation of water order. The reason for the pollution of the Menderes River is obvious. We can count them one by one, the first, industrial waste. Industrial companies don't set up a treatment plant because of the cost, and they don't run what's available. The Menderes River has brought an unusable amount of pollution in agriculture due to pollution created by Uçe and Denizli industrial facilities in the province of Sarayköy. Another problem is geothermal waste. Unfortunately, geothermal facilities are polluting our water supply and Menderes, for damage to the soil and water that they release into the air. Again, third, unplanned urbanization and municipal waste. 88 per cent of the municipalities in four cities where Menderes has passed, we know that the municipalities in Aydın have no treatment facilities and that there are 70 per cent decontamination facilities. Another is domestic waste. Aydın Province is worse than Turkey's average in terms of water, toilets, baths in the house. Again, another one, extra fertilizer and exterminating. We know that two thirds of the agricultural drugs consumed in Turkey were used in Western Anatolia. These drugs have a long-term effect by piling up in the drug-related soil. Again, there are mines and chemical wastes in the Five Finger Mountains. The pollution here reaches China through the Tea of China to the Menderes River. And, of course, there are fish farms that are built, and these fish farms have waste. Unfortunately, the Menderes River is getting dirtier day by day. More than 80 percent of the need for drinking and using water in Aydın is caused by underground waters, but our underground resources are affected by this pollution because of the elements that polluting all the nature we count. Valuable MPs, the European Union and Turkey's project to develop capacities for the Water Sector in Turkey in 2008-2009. The executive institution is the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, including the State Waterworks. The characterization report and measures programme for the Great Menderes Basin, which has been declared a pilot zone under the project, has been announced, and then this programme has been finalised at the end of the project, and has been announced that urgent measures must be taken within this project. Unfortunately, these measures have not been taken, we have come to 2017, we still do not see an application, and this project must be implemented immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, there's also a story that's been on the agenda recently, especially in the newspapers, news channels, which has recently been on the agenda of Congress. This is the site of Kisir neighborhood, located in Söke. This area is the site of a previous construction of uranium furnaces. A total of 13 uranium wells were opened to operate in the same area, as a result of samples taken between 1963 and 1984, at 4 points in total by a British company in 1957, but in 1957 they were not shut down. The total area width of the ramparts is 2 football fields. In time, NGOs invited certain experts from the United States, Germany and Turkey, again, academics, some investigations were conducted, and it was revealed that there was 450 times as much radiation as normal. In August 2015, two chemical engineers from Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency took water samples from 14 locations around the village of Kisir and from 18 locations, and from 13 water sources used by the village of Kisir. In December 2015, the values of the radiation measurements installed in 33 homes were retrieved by the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency in February 2016, but there is still no answer. What's the situation in this area? What's the actual pollution rate? Is there really a radiation ratio that would have a negative effect on the health of our people living there? And the answer to that is that the Lightmen who live in our village and live in the environment are waiting. Again, this, as I mentioned, has become a subject of news programs and newspapers, but it's clear where we're coming from. We also want to know how much radiation these uranium mines here in Kisir are emitting into the underground water supply. Again, we'd like to know how much you've contaminated the soil. Otherwise, either because of the problem with this uranium, or because of the lack of waste from the mines left by geothermals or other decontamination facilities in the Five-party Mountains, the settlements in the basin could be uninhabitable. The continuation of agricultural activities will also be at risk in this basin, which produces a significant amount of age and dried fruit and vegetables. Of course, there's a lot of countermeasures to save the Menderes basin. Some of these measures have been tried to take, but not enough, some of which have not been touched. There's got to be some serious work to do on this. For one thing, environmental experts should be assigned to all industries. All industries need the best technologies available to desalinate waste water. Wastewater treatment facilities with advanced decontamination in sensitive areas need to be spread. I need to check if the geothermal waters have been purified, if the reincarnation has been done. There are a lot of transactions like this that need to be done, a lot of measures that need to be taken. The inspection of agricultural medicines, the support of both our environmental and agricultural intellectuals and our farmers, as well as their own awareness of organic agriculture, needs to be helped in this regard. Again, we live in the floods of Menderes. Thank God, we haven't lived in recent times, but there must be an important assessment and study of whether or not it will take place in the next period. Dear lawmakers, the world's supply of clean water is rapidly diminishing. At the moment, one out of 10 people in the world can't reach clean water. Akchay, who was tied to Mendes thirty and forty years ago, could swim in our streams like Dandalas Tea, and could be fished and consumed from these waters, but now they can't even come close by the smell. You can't block your ears to people who want a solution to their problems, who cry out for help. On the brink of extinction, you can't just stand by and watch creatures disappear that can't even ask for help. You can't close your eyes. The land of the land and the water of the land are our trusts. For years, we've been in the squares, dying for the flow of our brother Mustafa Starborn, speaking with the song of Turkey, and today I see the Justice and Development Party singing the same song with great joy. Then, please carry out what is mentioned in this song, and I ask your grand committee to set up a research commission.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0049par0483	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. The first speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Erdem. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0050par0487	Mr. President, my esteemed fellow lawmakers, I give you all my compliments. Against him, Mr. President, but we're actually going to have a talk on behalf of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0051par0488	How do you vote, in favor or against? There's no vote on it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0050par0489	The Great Menderes River is our life's water, our pupil, our pearl. In that regard, we would like to thank Mr. Depboylu, MP of the National Movement Party, Aydın MP. I want to thank you on behalf of the Enlightenment, and thank you on behalf of myself, for his sensitivity as an Enlightenment citizen. Indeed, the Great Mendeles Aydın had been a source of life in the area for centuries, not only in Aydın, but in the land of which he was born, until it was poured out into the Aegean Sea to begin from the Afyon. In that regard, it is a subject that all of us, all of us living in the Light, are concerned about. Of course, the environment is very important for human health, for the future. Thankfully, during the AK PARTI administrations, the word "circle" was addressed to the ministries, and before that, all of us, along with NGOs, politicians, were prepared by the Environment and Urbanism Ministry's Environment Management Director in August 2016, the Great Mødøres Basin Basin Containment Action Plan was drafted by the Ministry for Pollution. This plan is sixty-seven pages, and in this plan, all the topics expressed by our congressman have been discussed in title and content. Yes, water resources and water use, agriculture, industrial waste water infrastructure, industrial waste water infrastructure, dot pollution charges, urban pollution loads, industrial pollution charges, pollution loads caused by solid waste, agricultural pollution loads, animal pollution loads, urban waste water, industrial waste water, solid waste waste, geothermal waste water and other areas, a plan to protect pollution from the basin of the Great Mendeles River. Such a plan has been planned because it was a sensitive issue during the period of our government during the AK PARTY administration. Of course, both pollution and excesses are important in both ways, the Mendes basin. The Great Menderes River had not been rehabilitated for fifty, sixty years. During the AK PARTY administrations, bed rehabilitation was conducted, and bed correction was performed from Denizli to Söke, and Didimil to the point where the Aegean Sea flowed. It was a very, very important service to prevent excesses. Again, our Great Mendes River has about 39 major water currents, and they needed very, very important dams to be built on to prevent floods. The Adnan Menderes Dam to China was at that point in 2002, where it had a 15 per cent fulfillment; the Twin Dam, which had to take place around 5 per cent; the Dandalaz Dam was about 5%. The dams on these rivers were very important for the constraints of the rivers, and these, thankfully, during the AK PARTI period, the Adnan Menderes Dam to China -- which was done today at a price of more than $2 billion -- were these dams to be done at a cost of over $2 billion -- the Light Twin Dam, and the Karacasu Dandalaz dams again, in order to prevent the floods -- have just expressed that the floods had been reduced during this last period -- had these dams not been made at a very troubling point -- in terms of our farms being so that there would be a great challenge in terms of our agriculture. Yeah, pollution... pollution, we're looking at, 82 percent of urban pollutants across the Great Menderes Basin, 82 percent. And there are 18% industrial pollutants. As our congressman has just stated, and as stated here in the motion, of course, all of those titles are important to each other. But if you notice, there's 82 percent urban pollutants across the Great Menderes Basin. What do you mean? Here, our local governments are especially required to work on it. There's incentives, there's support. For example, in Aydın Province, the Metropolitan Municipality must complete its treatment facilities through ASKI. Again, solid waste storage facilities need to be built. These need to be completed, not only in Aydın, but also in other provinces. What's the situation? The situation is, for example, a solid waste storage facility was built 15 years ago in the province of Aydın, and it was built in Didim. There are three facilities in the last 15 years. But 15 years ago, a solid waste storage facility was built at the centre of Aydın, and again the existing liquid waste treatment plant was renovated, renovated 15 years ago, no new work was done. For example, 50 percent of the sewage wastes of our dwellings -- about 300,000 -- are being given to the Great Menderes River in Aydın central province. There was a location on this 15 years ago. The new decontamination facility needs to be built, but it hasn't been taken a step in 15 years, and unfortunately -- let's dip the needle in ourselves and someone else -- we, the Lightmen, are the ones who need to protect the Great Menderes River the most, but the Aydın Metropolitan Municipality, ASKI, is now waiting with their eyes closed to the Great Mendeles River, where 50 per cent of the houses in the District of Aydın are being purified. For 15 years, the facility that had to be built in Osmanbüp neighborhood has not been built or taken a step. Again, solid waste storage facilities: Nazilli and seven other districts still haven't taken a step towards the solid waste storage facility. All this garbage there is left to nature in the form of wild storage, and as a result, they contribute the greatest pollution to the environment, to the Mendes basin. In that sense, yes, especially these industrial wastes should be considered. There are geothermal problems. Of course, these, especially in the OSBs, are involved in industrial facilities, legally sanctioned and severely punished. Once again, the ALO 181 line, the ALO Environment Line, which has been activated during the period of the AK PARTI administration, has been able to report crimes to the republic's prosecutors by calling ALO 181 in all kinds of errors, including industrial facilities, geothermals, and all kinds of environmental massacres. I, on this occasion, think that while the Great Menderes Basin of Pollution is under way, the plan for this motion will be carried out, the government will do its work, and then we will discuss it again. On this occasion, the May 27th, 1960 coup... In three days, we'll remember again May 27th. When I said Menderes, we remember the late Adnan Menderes, who was killed by the coupkers. From that day until July 15th, I curse those who have done all the beatings, and all our martyrs, I pray for God's mercy. I offer you love and respect.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0052par0500	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. In favour of the group proposal, the second speaker is Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Your time is ten minutes, Mr Baydar. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0053par0505	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by correcting a false information. My predecessor, the Justice Development Party MP, stated that the first circuit-related ministry was brought up by AKP governments, while the first Minister of Environment Ali Talip Özdemir (; and the first Ministry of Environment) was established during the Motherland Party. So we did everything during the AKP era. Please think about your understanding when you talk. You, let alone protecting the Ministry of Environment, you've managed to neutralize the environment by adding urbanism to it, and I'd like to express it. If you're so environmentally sensitive, Congressman, why don't you come out and show some environmental sensitivity when you're licensed for geothermals in Aydın, without a CED report? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, I would like to begin by expressing my regret when I learned how to swim when I was a little girl and learned how to swim under Horsun with a tractor, and how to talk to the Great Menderes River, about the pollution of the Great Møres River, which I drank when I was a child. Yes, in everyday life, pollution may not be a big deal, it may be more important, but in the rage of political life, the environment is unfortunately one of our most important and dangerous problems. Not only is there pollution of the environment in the air, water and soil, but there is soil pollution as a result of the lack of quality and quantitative compositions in the soil, these compounds, particularly heavy metals, pesticides, and beyond that, oil wastes, hormones, organic compounds and radioactive wastes. The most important effect of soil pollution for environmental health is that soil pollutants pass on to plants, and the consumption of animal products from people who eat these plants directly, or animals that feed on these plants leads to human pollution. Turkey has lost its ecological and economic properties over the past 40 years due to environmental and pollution, such as drying, filling, draining, urbanization. Water pollution in the Great Menderes, one of the 25 river basins in our country, threatens 2.5 million people living in a basin and the ecosystem of the basin. The Great Menderes River is unfortunately under pressure of overuse and pollution, which sustains the need for water in agriculture, industry and tourism and the basin ecosystems and sustains its natural and social life. Today, the Menderes River is Turkey's dirtiest -- the third river, as expressed by my fellow member of parliament -- and water quality is at the level of water pollution in the 4th grade. The use of this water in agricultural irrigation is very harmful. Dear friends, the Menderes River is sadly contaminated by industrial facilities in Afyon, Menderes River, Denizli and Aydın, sewage waste, agricultural medicines, and borons and acids, especially for cleaning geothermal pipes. We should also remember the waste from the mines in the Five Finger Mountains. For many years, pollution in the basin of Menderes has become five times the pollution of the Menderes River. As of this point, plant products that are now grown in the dirty land in the Menderes basin are becoming a threat to human health by losing its healthy food feature. The genetic makeup of seeds produced from the land in the Great Mendes basin affects the products that will be produced later, causing the trees in this land to degenerate and even drain the trees by degenerating the genetic structure of the trees. Aydın is the province of Turkey with the highest figs and olive trees. About 50 per cent of the figs and olive trees in the light are located in the basin area near the Menderes River. The effects of agricultural products and trees' genetic structure should not be ignored in those who eat these plants directly, in people who consume crops from these plants. Aydın is the third largest province in Turkey, where deaths related to circulatory system diseases are the highest, according to TÜİK (TÜİK) in 2017. Again, cancer-related deaths have been unfortunately more than twice the average for Turkey in the last decade. Here, the quality of the fig, particularly the most important and important fig of Aydın, is disappearing, as the waste from the geothermal plants to the Menderes River, and the vapors from geothermals are released in sulfuric acid into the air. We've been searching for that old dried fig of Germencik. We now prefer the figs of the Mountaineer and the Wheels in the mountains. Furthermore, the importance of the Menderes River and the basin will be better understood, given that less than 1 percent of the world's water is suitable for human use, that 1/3 of the world's population lives in countries with a low water shortage. Here, the Menderes basin is the breeding ground of pelicans with hills, and there are also 256 species of birds that are detected at the same time. Dear lawmakers, with the pollution of the Great Menderes basin, there is one other thing to consider, and it is the floods of the Great Menderes, which occur almost once every two years. In 2011, ruling lawmakers shared with the public that they would reform until the part of the Great Menderes River reached the sea and that the work would be completed as soon as possible. 2012 came, Menderes overflowed; 2013 came, it overflowed; 2014 overflowed in 2015. These riots were followed by AKP lawmakers. They made a statement, and said, "Something will be done about your lovers." In the last two years, there have probably been no outbursts due to the lack of rain efficiency. They're going to talk about it again, but the region doesn't believe it anymore. Menderes will flood, AKP MPs will look at it, and we'll be left to our fate again. It is imperative that the problems and proposals for solutions in the basin, which is of great importance to the region and our country, be determined by a commission. So I'd like to say that we will vote positively as Republican People's Party for the establishment of this parliamentary research commission. In the past, what Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in Rize, I'm the environmentalist, I'm the environmentalist. You remember what he said, but we also see that the cheese boat doesn't work. On November 1, 2016, the AKP (EC) considers it a responsibility to the next generation and considers it a trust. Despite what it says, no measures have been taken against the environment, especially for the pollution of Menderes, industrial waste and geothermal waste. Aside from taking a precautionary measure on geothermal waste, they were granted a license in geothermal facilities without even asking for a CED report. This expression is a complete contradiction to the events of the Great Mendes River. Again, in the AKP's election statement, we are looking at what we've done, the following statements are: in recent years, we have focused on solid waste management in order to protect the environment and human health, and we have accelerated the construction of regular storage facilities in this framework. I want to express that I have rebelled against this injustice from here. Our proposal is that Lake Bafa and the mountains of Five Fingers be covered by a national park along with the Menderes Delta. The Great Menderes River is not in another country, but together, we must take care of it without polluting it. Come, accept this proposal, and don't waste the people, the nature, the animals in the region. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0054par0524	Thank you, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0055par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0054par0526	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0055par0527	He mentioned my name, too, about the Ministry of Environment and other issues, and he had some false statements about AKP lawmakers. I have a brief request.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0054par0528	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0055par0529	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0054par0530	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0055par0534	Yes, I salute you again. Of course, our congressman friend is sensitive, and when he's enlightened, I respect his sensitivity when it comes to the Menderes Basin. But not our congressman, but in Aydın, you know, NGOs, some people in particular use these environmental issues to politics and explain them, they say: "In the light, cancer rate in Turkey has increased twice as much." TÜİK figures of 2016 have been announced. Cancer deaths in Turkey are 19.7; 19.7 per cent cancer mortality rate is 17.3 per cent lower than the Turkish average. TIC data's been released, just released. He's a medical doctor, so he's probably tracking this data pretty well. So it's being developed so that, you know, it's like this -- like this, in order to produce politics -- the fig of Aydın, a precious product of the world, the olive of Aydın, has nothing to do with it, and as a result, we have no right to destroy our own products, our own figs, our own agricultural products, our own neighborhoods, the biggest error of our community, in order to make this policy, from politics, where we can gain 3-5 votes from politics, to wear out power. In that sense, with the right information... access the 2016 TİİK figures online, you will see that the cancer rates there are 17.3%, below the Turkish average. Let our wish be lower, let our people not die, let cancers reset in both Turkey and the world, let them reduce, but of course... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...unfortunately, there's a fact. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0056par0542	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0057par0543	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0056par0544	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0057par0545	Mr. Erdem, in his speech, accused the nation of cheating to get 3-5 votes, Mr. Metin Hodja will use our group, our right to answer.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0056par0546	Mr. Baydar, I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0058par0549	Mr. President, valuable MPs, as our friend says, the environment is not a political issue. The approach is wrong. The environment is at the heart of politics. Today, the environment is no longer produced without politics, the main issue of politics. It's very important for me to contaminate the environment, and it's important to make the environment a political motto, and it's important to do the practices. Now, basically, the non-pollution of politics is to be uncomfortable when we tell the truth. It's you, so you're polluting the environment because you're uncomfortable. I want to say: Look, when you're driving through Aydın, especially on the highway -- my deputies will go there in the summer -- you'll see a lot of geothermal facilities, especially between Aydın and Germencik. Especially if you're traveling at night, you'll see a lot of steam coming out of the air.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0059par0551	What do the TİK numbers say, TİK figures?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0058par0552	See, in the Mursallı region, where the most beautiful figs of Germencik have grown, people can't sit still because of this steam that smells like sewers. The whole Germanian is in a riot. As the fig maker is this vapour, with the moisture of the air, the figs must not be honeyed for dry figs, but unfortunately, this steam honeys the figs and reduces the drying quality. Therefore, the fig maker is in revolt, especially with the creation of geothermal facilities, and I received these conversations from the data of the Aydın Medicine Room, where we went and observed them as empirical.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0059par0553	TÜİK 2016 figures are in sight.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0058par0554	...their data -- their data from the Medical Room, their assessment by compiling, collecting from cases in hospitals, is that they have increased cancer rates in Aydın. You can't just... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you can evaluate it, but that's the data we have on the Aydın Medical Office. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0060par0559	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Mr. Ertan, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0061par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. Freedom is supposed to be an exceptional measure of arrest, but when we look at the number of fillings in prisons and the grounds for arrest, we see that arrest is being run as a method of pre-criminal punishment, and the solution is presented to the public by the Justice Department as a means of making new prisons. With those already in charge, now half the population of prisons is prisoners. In addition, the government does not consider the principle of the child's superior benefit, and we see the result in prisons. Currently there are 560 children in Turkey's prisons with their mother because their mother is a prisoner. I can't make a moral, conscientious, legal statement of the situation. If this problem is not resolved, 560 children will also be included in the child of Mr. Burcu Çelik. Does the current government plan to resolve this problem, which is directly contrary to the Convention on Child Rights?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0062par0568	Thank you, Mr. Ertan. Now, the second and final speaker, Mr. Ramazan Can, against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0063par0575	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is a group proposal for contamination in the basin of the Great Menderes River. First of all, I want to say that all groups share the same sensitivity in the environment and health. Our government and ministers are in control of the matter. In particular, our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is monitoring the necessary work on the subject as part of the EGEGEGEP project. Again, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is closely following the issue within the framework of the Great Menderes Basin Containment Action Plan for Pollution. Our intellectual MPs are in charge of the matter in the best possible way. Mr. Mehmet Erdem, our esteemed MP, has already made a broad statement. He shares that explanation, and today, due to his generic question against Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the group approves his proposal at another time, yet I offer it to the General Assembly's appreciation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0064par0581	Thank you, Mr. Can. Congressmans, I submit the group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 24/5/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 24 May 2017, 253 mass graves, estimated to be buried after the arrest of 3,248 persons, were taken before other proposals by İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu (4648 rows) in our country, which were placed before the General Assembly's information on the Council of Turkey, and were proposed for the same date of talks in Wednesday (24/05/2017). The first speaker in favour of the group's proposal for Peoples' Democratic Party is Mr. Merkel Danış Beştaş. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0065par0596	Mr. President, before I start speaking, I'd like to greet Mr. Demirtaş, our co-chairs, who are still being held as political hostages in prisons, Mr. Demirtaş, and the other fellow arrested MPs from here with respect and love, and I'd like to greet all the people who are in charge of their television. Yeah, it's missing week. So we hope that our motion will pass with positive votes today. What do the missing people mean, when has the week of loss been declared, there is no doubt that the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have information about this, but once again we would like to refresh the memories and express from here how painful this matter is. In fact, Turkey had met casualties in custody during the September 12th fascist coup. Shortly after the coup, as you may recall, over 300 people were lost in custody from over 650,000 people who were taken into custody. Cemil Kırbayır, Iştin Eren, Hüseyin Morsümbül and many others have been lost in custody, and this is still in front of us, remaining fresh in our memories. However, this was not used as a systematic method at the time, which is among those known. More executions, torture deaths, arrests, citizenship and deportation were on the agenda in the coup of September 12th. However, in the 1990s, the method became systematic, the method of losing in custody. In particular, people began to be lost in the region, in the west, in major cities, in the deserts, in villages. It didn't matter here; Kurd, Turk, worker, jobless, poor, many of whom were facing loss in custody in this way. In particular, the leaders of the ruling social opposition, struggling for labour and democracy, were followed and lost one by one. This has come to a stage where, after a while, even those taken into custody from criminal charges have been seen to be lost. Of course, the Kurds took a significant share of it, as did all other violations. In the early 1990s, the missing relatives began to really get together, and in 1994, the number of casualties showed so much that they were ready to blow their mind. In 1994 and 1995, the loss took place in Turkey's history as the most recent lost years in custody. In particular, Mehmet Agar, who was appointed to the Police General Directorate in 1993, had also started to produce the fruits of the Special Operations Agency, which was established by the Council of Ministers, and was being used as a means of losing and losing in custody. We see it in a much better way today. I would also like to note that there is a method used to eliminate opponents, especially in military times and in conflicted times, in other countries as well. On Saturday (May 27, 1995), when their mothers first started to live in the Istanbul Galatasaray Square, Hasan January, who was taken into custody and killed, was found ten days ago in the cemetery of the orphans. Immediately after that, the discovery of Ridvan Karakovic was truly a great hope for his missing relatives. I want to make it clear that Bosnia is the most widely known example in the international sense. The fact remains that thousands of people were lost and buried in mass graves during the 1992-1995 war in Bosnia. That's why the United Nations established the Commission for Loss in 1996, and in this sense -- this is the Week of Loss again -- between May 17th and May 31st -- a variety of events are being held for the discovery of these losses, and with different methods, the perpetrators are being remembered, and a serious challenge for finding them is being raised again. This week, internationally, it is described as the week of the Battle Against Loss in custody. On December 20, 2006, an international contract was adopted at the United Nations General Assembly for the protection of persons from missing persons in custody. In this regard, a ban on losing and losing under the contract has been imposed, which, of course, has been conditioned by the entity's internal laws as a crime. The same contract is common, systematically referred to as a crime against humanity, and is dominated. 105 countries have been on the side of the contract so far, but Turkey, unfortunately, is still not on the side of the contract. On this occasion, as soon as possible, we'd like to call for Turkey to side with this international contract, because the numbers really put us ahead of us how important it is that we side with this contract. According to the Human Rights Association and the Association for Losers of Relatives, there are 17500 unsolved murders in our country. There are 3,248 people who disappeared after most of them were taken into custody, and 235 graves that were estimated to have been buried have been identified according to the data of the associations. Unfortunately, prosecutors show great resistance not to open these mass graves, while the struggles of their missing relatives continue. I don't think it's necessary to say that most of the losses mentioned above are political murders and losses. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we started 25 years ago, but right now we can't go past the mention of their mother on Saturday. At Galatasaray Square in Istanbul, Saturday's Mothers have performed a sit-in every week since 27 May 1995, past the third week. Again in Diyarbakır, this sit-in took place in the 432th week. This actually stands before Turkey, the authorities, us and politics as the largest, systematic, stable, and decisive method of fighting in the world. Dear lawmakers, that's true, these losses didn't happen during the current power period, but they need to show a will to face the past and reveal the truth, in the sense that these losses are found, at least their graves are identified, and given to their families, because being a lost relative is something that no one can really imagine is ever going to live. On this occasion, I would like to say in particular that hundreds of people who are still in the cemetery of the orphans are also missing. We are talking about the funerals in Diyarbakır, Malatya, Antalya, Elazığ ATK, and some of which were expected to be identified at Forensic Medical Institutions and some of which were buried in the cemetery of the orphans. Their families have lost relatives, and they can't identify them. In this regard, unfortunately, the Coroner's Office has been unable to give this information to the families as a result of extensive investigations. This also stands in front of us as a bleeding wound in Turkey. Dear friends, I'd like to finish my words with a word from Hasan Karakoc, but before he does, I would like to ask you: "Please, I invite you to a feeling that for a moment, you have no idea whether your brother, your child, your father, your mother -- is missing, in ten years, twenty years, five years, three years -- whether you've heard anything -- whether you've heard anything from the body or the body -- or the face or the body -- or the body -- or whether you've ever lived. If he were dead and they had their funeral, they'd have a grave, and they don't have a grave. Therefore, I believe that all lawmakers sitting in this House will understand the pain of their missing relatives only with a moment of empathy, because their suffering is too great. Hasan Karakoc, a relative of loss, says: "Our authorities are blind, deaf, and dumb, as we feel our pain as people of conscience hear our voice from many lands across the world, across the ocean, even from Argentina. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0066par0612	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0065par0613	None of these families have a gravestone to put flowers on, to pray on, to visit on the holiday. But we are here again, and we will continue to shout. Today, we really want our research proposal for such an important matter to be accepted, like all our research proposals. Come, let's all agree on this and continue this search with Parliament's will to ease the suffering of these lost relatives, and I'll say this last: Kemal GünEST's action is on the 89th day, and right now, our lecture MP Alican Önlü is there, and we still haven't even given the bones. There's a round trip between the governor and the family and the lawyers, and you're not going to have a mass funeral. There's a negotiation, and we're going to bury Erzurum. Don't do this, Turkey doesn't deserve it, Turkey doesn't deserve it. Finally, the losers will lose.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0066par0616	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. The first speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, the Ottoman MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0067par0621	Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I think we're talking about a very meaningful date on a motion like this, and I'm offering it to your appreciation whether it's a coincidence or a choice that this motion coincides with this date. Today, May 24, 1993, the anniversary of the testimony on the land road of Bingol-Elazig, where the condemned lambs had drunk the sherbet of testimony, and the heart of 33 mothers had burned. I remember our martyrs with mercy, God rest his soul. We bow before their witnesses to make their homeland a homeland and to keep the Turkish state alive forever. Members of parliament, the alleged mass murder of the state, which was heated and predominated like a piece of rice, and the claims that 17,000 people were killed by the state by unsolved murders are an application of a PKK terrorist organization's psychological operation in Turkey with domestic and foreign focus and extensions. You know, the country that has been fighting terrorism since 1984 has suffered extraordinary losses, great casualties, civil deaths, and a serious struggle to the death of terrorists. Of course, there is a possibility that those who have developed a personal attitude and behavior in such a foul mood will make mistakes, but when you look at the history of the Turkish state, you can never see the Turkish state ever committing a massacre of its own free will. Those who make these claims have always been ashamed of the face of history and the face of truth, and will continue to be. But one of the main issues that we need to discuss today and focus on is that if we are to go on these issues with sincerity, we must remove the PKK terror pressure on our citizens in the region. As of today, it's actually an answer to those who have different expectations by bringing a number of different interpretations into the public opinion. By protecting the state's citizen, protecting the state and its nation, and disassociating the terrorist, it's a statement that there is nothing wrong with it, but when we walk through the reality that the state policies that have been able to open the path of the terrorist organization in the region so far have failed, the fight against the nation and the terrorist organization that will unite the state, the lawmakers are curious about how they will slaughter those who are different from the people in the region who have not been able to obey us as the question of the PKK. On the other hand, those who have seen the loyalty of the people of the region to the state and its conduct must face another truth one step later, and one truth is the story of Uncle Tillo, who recently drank the sherbet of the witness and became Rahmethirahman. Who's Uncle Tillo and what's his story? Today, we say that Tillo, who died on his way home in Bitlis, who was killed by a traitorous gun attack, worked on our movement in Bitlis County General Assembly, was the first candidate for the nationalist movement, named Tillo Kapato, Tillo Uzar. It's too close, just a few years ago, guys. I'd like to say to a number of so-called friends who have criticised Mr. President of the National Movement Party for their statements, that for the National Movement Party, the symbol of their party is not only three crescents, but the fluctuation of the Turkish flag alone is enough. See, we see the result of our actions in the area by sending Uncle Tillo to witness syrup. There are areas in the region where we can do politics, where there's a democratic struggle, don't you think? Yeah, we did, it's open. While the decisive fight was in itself, they were in the Milliyetci Movement Party Group this week along with the mayor of Diyarbakır and all the mayors of the district, and they paid visits to Mr. President of the MHP Group. So if we want Turkey to normalize and fight in a democratic way, we have to free Turkey from terrorist oppression, terrorist organizations. The only way to get rid of this terrorist pressure and terror is through the decisive struggle of the state. One step after this decisive struggle, the question that must be asked immediately after... comes to our group: I suffer a great deal for the kidnapping of my child. Can you help me get my child out of the PKK, the organization? Those who say that if you don't do what we say, we'll get one of your two children out of the threat, if the state doesn't save their citizens, then there's no political ground in the region. If you start to do politics in civilian areas through the issues of citizens and the problems of the region, you will also embrace the people of the region. If the government's determination in the fight against terrorism, and there until yesterday, the ditch winners in the name of politics can be there with the state today against those trench boilers, or if the government's bureaucrats, the skims, are serving them through trustees, they'll see the state's property, they'll target the government's symbol of belonging to the government, and they'll try to martyr them again with bombs they've set up their rooms, but we see that the great Turkish nation has seen these facts and is walking on them. That's what gives extraordinary support to the struggle in the region. Dear lawmakers, at the end of my speech, I'd like to share with you the background of this 17,000 unsolved cases: the place where 17,000 alleged unsolved murders were used for the first time, time and, of course, the person using it is unknown, but it is a common belief that this statement is based on a witness testifying on a commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As to why such a figure has been given, an important clue is found on page 435 of Faruk's book "The Life Story" of Leila Zana, the night of the oath. It appears that at the end of 1997, the number of dead terrorists was 17.277. Since allegations of unsolved murder have been adorned with the number of 17,000 since 1997, the number of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) people who have died in conflicts with security forces, not the number of perpetrators. However, the PKK has begun to effectively use this issue against Turkey in the psychological war mechanism and has tried to build a number of 17,000. Of course, we, as nationalists, who founded nationalism on human love and who were part of an understanding that would never change anyone else, have never embraced feeding on pain, exploiting pain, developing politics over pain, and it's always clear that we're standing on the nationalization of the local that we've established, the universalization of the nation. Of course, the grief of the mother who lost her child in that sense is our sincere concern, but we want to shout out the fact that the PKK terror organization has caused these mothers' attitudes and behaviors, and that it is the fact that the collaborators have broken their peace through this organization, and that the way to get rid of these tears is through this decisive struggle. We think that the healthy construction of democracy in Turkey is a way to live in a safe, peaceful country, free of all terrorist organizations. Turkey will rise like the sun on a future civilization's horizon, when both the PKK (PKK) and its people have escaped from all the collaborators, who want to deceive the state and nation, whose name we don't want to desecrate by name. Because the advent of Turkish culture, the power of Turkish nation, the historical force of the Turkish nation, says it is capable of doing so, and on behalf of the National Party of Action, I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0068par0630	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0069par0631	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0068par0632	Mr. Kerestecioglu, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0069par0636	I have a small request to make, because I think, our motion has not been fully understood, so I felt the need to make a brief statement. According to data from the Human Rights Association and the Association for Losers of Relatives, there are 17,500 unsolved murders in our country. The majority are also mentioned in 253 mass graves, estimated to have been buried, 3,248 missing after being taken into custody. Now, it's not just in Turkey. So, wherever there is war in the world, wherever there really is conflict, and even such a claim is in fact a need to be investigated and has been asking people to look for it for years.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0068par0638	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0069par0639	Unfortunately, war is what causes it. In the same way, it also causes the slaughter of 33 soldiers, which must be investigated; indeed, it breeds violence, and it is something that must be challenged in every form. Peace and democracy take the country to the future. You're one of the best people who's ever had this, your wife, who's also lost in a murder like this. This House, therefore, should use its words more carefully, considering it a little bit. I wish peace to our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0070par0643	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Of course, I agree with your comments. As an unknown relative, I know that there have been 17500 unsolved and missing persons incidents in Turkey as his wife, and we know that, in your statement, this was a number of studies by the Association of Families Lost Human Rights and Relatives. But here's a research motion given by the People's Democratic Party, which is precisely why I would like to say that this commission is a research proposal to investigate the number, why they've been lost, why they've been killed, or why they've been murdered, and I would like to say that I agree with this from the heart. Although we've been demanding for years that these murders must be revealed, that casualties must be found, that judicial executions must be revealed, unfortunately, Congress has not been able to make any initiatives. Perhaps this motion you've made today will be a factor, and that is my request, of course. And thank you very much for your insight. Members of parliament, the second speaker in favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0071par0655	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I take it it's ironic that we had to have this conversation during a hearing conducted by the Deputy Speaker of Parliament who lost his wife in an unsolved murder, as an irony, as a Turkish irony. You've been seeking justice for twenty-four years, but you're still acting Speaker of the House, and you haven't been able to get justice for your wife. This makes it very clear where Turkey is in particular on unsolved murders and casualties. Dear friends, loss, martial law, coup, it's an app of extraordinary times, it's a practice, and it's practical, it's in our history. There are dozens of examples of this, but extraordinary state practice is the highest period of loss. Now, first of all, we're in extraordinary condition again, and there's a lie, there's a mistake. There's a lie that your extraordinary state has been lifted from the Justice and Development Party, and there's a mistake, and I'd like to correct it first. It was always said: "We have lifted the extraordinary state, we have been told to lift the extraordinary state everywhere we go. " Finally, when we arrived at the Justice and Development Party Congress, there was a state of emergency. It was said, "This is a total lie, a total lie! Look, Mr. Cemil Cicek is also here -- Parliamentary reports from June 19, 2002. This is the Minister of Interior of the period, Kazım Kazım Yücelen. He's talking about the dissertation of the state of emergency. His speech is this, I read his last chapter: "With such thoughts and evaluations, your extraordinary state is at 17 p.m. on July 30, 2002. As of 00, I submit to the discretion of our great Assembly that it should be terminated in our provinces of Hakkari and Tunceli, and that it should be extended for another four months to prepare for the measures after the extraordinary state of Diyarbakır and Şırnak. When did he say that? On June 17, 2002. There is no Justice and Development Party power yet. After the November 3rd elections, only two counties have a state of emergency as of November 3rd, Diyarbakır and Şırnak. And in regard to him, this Parliament put forth a will, and said: "This is the last time I extend it. For the last time I ask your authority. In fact, as of November 30, 2002, the state of emergency was removed from Diyarbakır and Şırnak, where it was last implemented 15 years later. This Parliament, without the previous Parliament, the Justice and Development Party, has decided that. So we removed the extraordinary state. It's a complete lie, completely wrong, completely perception operation. No, you haven't, but you've just declared a state of emergency in 81 counties. What kind of regime is this, what kind of regime is this? I thought you were against the state of emergency! Let's look at your posters on June 7th, your banners on June 7th; we've taken off extraordinary form, freedom has arrived. Isn't that what you said, June 7th? (CHEERING) So, what now? Mr. President, what is wrong with you in TÜSİAD? He said, "What is wrong with you?" And he said, "My dear friends will not rise." He said, "It will not rise." Yes, we lack much, we lack much. If there was nothing missing, why did you report to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe? I will not exercise these rights. I ask you, answer me. Or why, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, did we suspend them? These are missing. What's missing? The justice you don't see is incomplete, the freedom you don't see is incomplete. They're missing, you don't see them. I was just on Yüksel Street. Officers, MPs, we're there. We'll make a statement, a statement, in front of the Human Rights Monument. Hundreds of police officers and TOMA on the street. Lawmakers of this republic, 100 metres away, in the heart of Ankara, couldn't get anywhere within 500 meters of Parliament, under the direction of the Ankara Governor, there are no written instructions, and there are illegal orders. And what's more, what's more? The state of emergency regimes are the regimes of loss. You don't see them, they don't come to you. Look, the other day... There are dozens, hundreds of casualties in the state of emergency, and there are decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights on casualties; there are applications I've made, there are decisions we've made about those applications. However, there are cases being filed, and all of those cases were exiled during this period of government, during the Justice and Development Party administrations; all of them, the cases related to the unknown; where were they exiled from Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Hakkari, and Van Özakça? He was banished to Ankara, İzmire, Samsuna, Çoruma, Kırşehir, where the victims could not go, so that they would not seek rights. lice, my hometown, lice, burned down. Do you know where his case is? In İzmir. The victims couldn't go to the last trial from Diyarbakır to İzmir, they couldn't follow. Who did all this? I thought you were following the unsub. Can you tell me where he is? More than that, dear friends, there are dozens, hundreds of casualties. They've been sitting at Galatasaray Square for the last week. Do you ever hear what they're going through? Forced loss is a crime against humanity and the most serious crime is a crime more than a right to life. Because until people find the loss, until they find their spouses, they live in torture until they find their children; it's a persecution, and they have a quest for justice and an endless search for justice. There are endless mourning in Turkey, endless mourning, unresolved deaths, and the state of emergency declared by the Justice and Development Party, you have a government that takes refuge behind it, and you have Parliament. Dear friends, let's give up these forms of governance. Where am I gonna go? I filed a question motion the other day. They're writing to me on social media. I'm a civil rights advocate, that's my priority before I become a congressman; they don't come to you. I've written seven missing persons in the heart of Ankara, at the center of Ankara, as a date and location, seven missing persons. They've been kidnapped, there's concrete data, there's records, there's MOBESE records, they've been kidnapped. Their wives came to me -- all of them with headscarves and headscarves -- looking for their wives, just like Bosnian women -- but they're looking for them in fear. You know what they're called? Look, do not follow them, or you will end up like your wives; you will go to prison, and your children will be orphaned and neglected. You know what that fear reminded me of, dear friends? It reminded me of the abduction of Necati Aydın. He was released in Diyarbakır, and the next morning I went to the DGM Public Prosecutor's Attorney's Office -- because he was on the record -- and I went to Bekir Selçuk. He was released from DGM, but he's gone. I went to him -- first I went to the Attorney General, first I went to the judge, first I went to the prosecutor who sent him -- he said to me, "Mr. Sezgin, could he not have gone to the mountain?" I said, "Mr. Prosecutor, come to your senses, come to your senses." He's been in custody for 15 days, so why would he get out of here and go to the mountain? First he goes home, then he goes to the mountain. Why would he go to the mountain? He showed me the door. I went out, and 15 days later, three bodies were found on the side of Pamuklu, including them. They called me, I'm at the bar. A body was found, written on his ring by Süheyla, his wife's name. The Attorney General told me that. Do you know what the governor of Ankara said to this woman yesterday? Could he not have escaped? The same thought, nothing has changed. I thought you said you were against it. Look, Turgut Çapan, who has been in custody for forty-two days, is currently in Sincan, where he is imprisoned for forty-two days. He was kidnapped in the heart of Ankara, in Yenimahalle. I wrote it, I drew it, they pointed at me. Then he was left with his eyes closed, handcuffed, tortured in a room for 42 days. Released, brought and arrested, now in prison. Go see, there are seven of them with him. Same stories, same stories. What stories? We have the names of the other kidnappers from custody. They hear their names in torture and loss. Dear friends, there are now 12 names missing in Ankara. Look it up, look it up. These are crimes against humanity, crimes, and the price is high, dear friends. The price of conscience is high, the price of man is high, the price of politics is high.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0072par0669	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0071par0670	I'm calling from here to the governor of Ankara and all the authorities: we'll keep saying that. Our concern, the organization, is nothing more. Our concern is human life, human rights. I expect this Parliament to be as sensitive as we are. Know this, don't be insensitive. Thank you, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0072par0673	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The last speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Yusuf Başer of Yozgat. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0678	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group to address the HDP's motion to investigate the unsolved murders and the disappearances after they were taken into custody. I hereby salute our high council and our holy nation. Before I begin, I ask God's mercy on our 33 martyrs who were brutally murdered by PKK servants twenty-four years ago and on their sons who were also martyrs for the sake of the state. In the same way, on this occasion, I ask my Lord to have mercy on our July 15th martyrs, whose office will be a paradise, and I want it to be known that we will take care of their trust as we did yesterday and tomorrow. Again, before starting my remarks, the implementation of the party president, who was one of the practices of the presidential government system, was elected on 21 May with the extraordinary convention of our EC Party, the founding President, our President, my fifth child. On this occasion, I would like to thank and thank both our President and all my friends who have served at the headquarters of our party, and I would like to congratulate them, so that they may have friends and help them. And I wish the new era to be good for our republic, for our country, for our democracy, and for our nation. Mr. President, the new Turkey is a Turkey where 80 million will live together on the same land, in the shadow of the same flag, within the same goals and ideals. New Turkey is Turkey, where 80 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey are completely equal in the face of state opportunities and opportunities. New Turkey is a Turkey with 80 million in undiscriminate possession of this land, carrying its property on its property. New Turkey is a Turkey that has not been excluded from anyone's language, religion, ethnic origin, color of its skin, or religion, or religion, or life - style, or contempt, or self-determination, or isolation. No problem of Turkey is unresolved. Turkey is a Turkey where despair will never grow on its territory, and it will never grow on its roots. The AK PARTY has said what wasn't said, done what couldn't be done, made the unimaginables real. In the 14-year period of EC PARTY rulings, the obstacles to basic rights and freedoms have been removed, freedoms have been expanded, and many courageous reforms have been made to further strengthen the culture of life together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0074par0684	Is this Turkey?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0685	In Turkey, not only did democracy, freedoms and the culture of life become stronger together, but also with the stability and confidence that is created by it, our economy grew, our bread on the table multiplied, we gave power to our power.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0075par0686	You must live in another country.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0687	In New Turkey, our policy, regardless of ethnic identity, religion, and faith, is to extend a more powerful understanding of a democratic environment based on equal citizenship and universal principles and values, which brings them to the common consciousness of life. Turkey's torture was released from Turkey's agenda because of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0076par0689	Why don't you issue a report from the European Committee for the Protection of Torture?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0690	In our time of power, we've implemented a zero tolerance policy for torture. In 2013, along with the fourth judicial package, we increased the amount of penalties for torture crimes, and we lifted the necessary steps to prevent the defendants from taking the time of punishment for those who were victims of torture. Again, the United Nations Convention Against Torture was approved and included in our internal laws.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0076par0691	Why isn't the November 2016 report published? Why did the government put a reserve?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0692	In Turkey, we have fully established human rights and freedoms, and we have placed the cases of the white Toros, which were carved into the memory of our people in the 1990s, into history's wastebasket as the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0076par0693	A very concrete question: Why isn't the report on Turkey published by the European Committee for the Protection of Torture of November 2016, and why is the reserve reserved? It's a very concrete question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0694	We're the ones who prevent unsolved murders and casualties as an AK PARTY. We pulled the mob and gangs off the country's agenda as an AK PARTY. By accepting the right to information, we have eliminated practices that have made it impossible for our citizens to acquire information.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0076par0696	I'm asking a solid question: if there's no torture, why isn't the report published, why is there a reserve?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0077par0697	You can't even stand the sound of the Hatibi talking. Look, everyone listened to you quietly. You can't stand a person's speech, not even too loud. Besides, he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0073par0698	Mr. President, we've taken every step necessary to ensure that there will be no problems with the health conditions of prisoners and prisoners, especially in accordance with the laws issued after July 15th, we've tried to treat all our citizens equally against the law, despite the harsh conditions of the execution institution. The European Convention on Human Rights, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2014, was also more effective during the period when the physical and psychological examinations of prisoners and prisoners were taken into the execution institutions and during the time they were present in these institutions...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0078par0700	Mr. President, why don't you publish the report of the European Committee for the Protection of Torture, who is studying this matter with your permission?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0079par0701	President, is there such a procedure? He's the preacher, he's the bell, he's the bell!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0078par0702	Why isn't this committee's report published in prisons and detention centers?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0079par0703	Keep the peace, Mr. President. Is there such a procedure here? He's coming out, and he's talking out loud, and he can't stand to talk for ten minutes!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0080par0704	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0078par0705	I'm asking a question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0079par0706	You're saying democracy, you're violating democracy yourself! Listen to me! Don't you have a hard-on?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0707	...and we've fulfilled all international contracts on providing the necessary treatment facilities and hosting them in accordance with their circumstances. The Republic of Turkey, which is one of the founding members of the Council of Europe and has begun talks with the European Union on its entire accession path, has implemented the rule of law since 1923, many important reforms in the field of human rights, as well as the United Nations and the European Convention.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0082par0709	When did he take sides?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0710	Again, since 1997, despite many changes in fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey, we have taken much more steps in prisons in particular, especially by developed countries and many international organisations, and Turkey has been appreciated in this regard in the progress reports of the European Union. Under the conditions of the penal institution, our legislation has been harmonised by the European Council's Decision on European Prison Standards No. 2 and by the standards envisioned in the decisions of the United Nations entitled The Standard, Minimum Rules. In addition, our country has established all legal and judicial mechanisms to prevent torture and eliminate allegations under the policy of zero tolerance against torture under the European Union's integration efforts. In this case, the articles in the Turkish Republic's penal code have been charged with aggravated torture and persecution...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0083par0713	Well, Mr. President, I'm asking you a concrete question: why isn't it published? Why isn't it published? It's a concrete question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0714	...we've brought the freedom-binding sentences between three years and aggravated life imprisonment.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0083par0715	Why isn't it published? Why isn't the report published?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0716	As part of the prevention of torture and abuse, our execution institutions are supervised on a national level by 136 independent penal institutions and detention boards. And I know the conditions in prisons when I was the mayor of the bar in the past year.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0083par0718	So I did it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0084par0719	Bravo.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0721	We've made arrangements for him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0083par0723	Why isn't it published, Mr. President? Why isn't it published? Give me that answer, as Chairman of the Bar, and give me that answer.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0081par0724	Yes, the same way 39 percent of the execution court...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0083par0725	We're the heads of the bar together. Why isn't it published?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0085par0726	Stop it, stop it!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0086par0727	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0087par0728	...under the supervision of the International Committee for Torture Protection and the United Nations Economic Arrests, Torture and Demeaning Responsibility Committee.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0729	Well, why don't you publish it? Why don't you publish it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0087par0730	Again, by making a crack at this place, all our prisons are being held by both international agencies...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0731	Why don't you publish it? Why isn't the November 2016 report published?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0087par0732	...and is being audited by the boards and corporations that we have established through the AK PARTY in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0733	Where's the report, the report?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0087par0734	As an AK PARTY for the establishment of modern law laws...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0735	Mr. President, where's the report?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0089par0736	If you listen, you'll find out; listen!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0737	If you read it, you'll be ashamed, you'll see how torture and abuse become systematic, how it came to be...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0090par0738	...in connection with the unsolved murders and the prevention of casualties and tortures, we show high sensitivity to their color, their religion, race, regardless of the law, we know that there is no justice delayed, and as the EC PARTI, I salute your high-ranking committee that I will vote against its proposal, and that we will fight to the end of the law, both in connection with the unsolved crimes, and in connection with all crimes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0091par0740	Thank you, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0741	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0092par0742	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0091par0743	Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0744	According to the Civil Code, I'm going to take a brief statement to correct a wrong issue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0091par0745	Here, from your position, I'll turn on the microphone. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0088par0749	Mr. President, the speaker has stated that there is no torture in Turkey and that it is open to international control. I ask a very clear question: On November 2016, the European Committee for the Protection of Torture visited detention centers and prisons and published a report by the government's permission in Turkey. He sent this report to the government to appeal to his views. The government has given their opinion to the Committee. That report needs to be published, but in order for it to be published, the government should not have a reserve, and under the contract, it should be allowed to publish, but not until then. Therefore, the government or the majority of the Justice and Development Party must explain why that report was not allowed to be published. Because in that report, it's become very clearly systematic -- since it's not allowed -- torture, maltreatment, in prisons and detention centers. The secretary gave me the wrong information, and I made a promise to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0091par0751	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0093par0753	I'd like to make a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0091par0754	Here, let's turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0093par0756	Mr. President, to be honest, I haven't seen a word from your enemy about casualties before. It has nothing to do with the AKP congress or the presidency, and I want to make it clear that our motion has nothing to do with it. The other one: I mean, he was tortured, but he really did share all the wrong, lying, baseless information. I've submitted a question motion concerning the CPT Report. The report, which has been ready since 2016, cannot be shared due to Turkey's reserve installation, cannot be disclosed to the public. The people of Turkey are really being deceived, they're being deceived, they're being deceived. Our motion is a study of casualties. Let's not accept this motion with applause. I mean, I don't know how to express it, but... it's really uncomfortable, it's embarrassing. Tens of thousands of families are currently doing sit-ups every week to find their losses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is a very important wound in Turkey, and I would like to say that we find the attitude against this absolutely unfortunate, and we reject it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit02spe0094par0761	Well, thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Ladies and gentlemen, I now submit to your votes the People's Democratic Party's group proposal that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group Chairs, İstanbul MP Engin Altay, Ankara MP Levent Gök and Manisa MP Free Special are starting talks on the opening of a geneor for Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ (11/15) on charges of affecting the results of the judicial judge's and administrative judiciary nomination test for lawyers whose stage was written on December 24, 2016. Government? Here. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 92nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 16/05/2017. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. As the first speaker of the declaration, İstanbul MP Barýş is a member of the Turkish Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Yfriend. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0095par0015	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to discuss today's motion for the geneorization of our party. Sevcan Karayiğit is the daughter of Ahmet Karayiğit. Gonca Hatinoğlu is the daughter of Zarrin Güngör. Mohammed Said Pamukçu, Chief of Staff of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. Behice Sergeant, Chairman of the AKP Giresun Women's Arms. Bayram Good morning, AKP Vice President of Tripoli. Kazim Presents, AKP President of Nevşehir Province. Fahrettin Tuğrul, AKP Valedictorian candidate, Head of Butler Law Association. This association was closed on July 15th, after a low coup attempt, on the grounds that it was a fucker. Who are these names and what do they have in common? The common feature of these names is that they all cross the AKP and are appointed judges on April 24th. Almost all 1,341 judges appointed after the pass-of-law examination on December 26, 2016 were raised from AKP district and county agencies. These are the names we listed up there, and these are the ones you see here, an important example of how the justice mechanism is inserted into the vortex. Hundreds of AKP attorneys have been appointed as judges. Courts of Justice have been transformed into AKP mayors. Congressmans, these lawyers have been appointed judges with an interview of exactly 40 seconds. You can't even pick a national lottery ticket in 40 seconds, but in 40 seconds, you can name those names as judges. In order to do that, you remove the 70-point dam on the written test with a decree in accordance with the law. On the written test, you eliminate 90, 92 areas; you assign 50, 55 points to an interview as a judge because they are only AKP people. What you're doing is a murder in the name of the law. The list of partisan judges is a death sentence of justice. You wrote the death sentence of justice and struck the last nail in the coffin of justice. Now you can brag about your work. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here, Mr. Secretary, from the justice point of view of a judge whom you have appointed: his name is Kamil Elgöz, he is from the AKP, and he clearly writes on his Facebook page that he belongs to a congregation. What is this person's feature except that he's from the AKP? Our president-in-chief, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has justified the illegal wiretapping of his phone calls, mocking that the Republican People's Party is going to the Constitutional Court, and Turkey is now being handed over to this head, justice is being handed over to that mind. You can brag about your work. Mr. Bozdağ, in a speech you gave on November 8, 2016, I find it uncomfortable to see judges sharing political shares in the Sanal world. I don't want my cases to fall to such a judge. I'm afraid of prosecutors and judges who did this. You said. Here are the shares of the judge you've appointed with a 40-second interview: a judge who mocks the Republican People's Party's access to the Constitutional Court and advocates illegal wiretaps. Now, Mr. Bozdağ, my call to you is: Come, cancel this questionable test. Come on, in this questionable exam, in writing, who got how many points and what criteria were applied in the interview, explain all of this to the public, and do the interviews in front of the cameras, convincing the public to do the interviews in front of the cameras. Otherwise, don't expect us to trust the judgment. Why should we trust these judges who are appointed only because they are AKP people? By means of special authority courts, you have enjoyed the opposition, and by means of your former partner, you have enjoyed it. Now you're using the methods you learned from your former partner, turning the magistrates into a stick of power. This judge and judicial mechanism that you've turned into the stick of power has committed incredible murders, causing major injuries to the judiciary. 13 writers and employees of the Cumhuriyet daily have been in prison for months on grounds that they cannot even fabricate, and 4 of these writers are not released even though they receive reports that they are ill from the state hospital, but AKP Chair Kadir Topbaş, his son-in-law Omar Kavurmaki, is being released on the grounds of his private hospital report. Do you know where this Omar Kavurmacı sleeps at home, private hospital, or Greece, Mr. Secretary? Of course, you may not know where this Omar Kavurmacý was sleeping, but we know where Nuria and Semih were sleeping, who were arrested yesterday for a funny reason by the ruling mechanism. They're not like the Poacher, they can sleep well because they haven't eaten anyone's dues, they haven't exploited anyone's labor; they've been arrested just because they want their jobs. Since you no longer know what you're doing, you're arresting Nuriya and Semih, who you fired for being workers, on the grounds that they're from the DHKP-C. We know the real reason for this arrest: you're afraid of their smile, you're getting them arrested for not surrendering to injustice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Is that all you're doing? Of course not. Are the party judges, the party police only afraid of Nuriya and Semih? No. We saw it yesterday, we saw it the other day, 17 years ago, with an example of what you did to the mother of Veli Sakımı, whose arm was torn off in the prison operation by the people you call "statukocu." There he cried, Mother Kezban, my son has no arm! My son has no arm! Don't spray his car! Don't take him into custody! Will you not fear God? He said, "Are you not Muslims?" What did you do? You dragged that woman down on the floor. Look, do you know why he's wearing pants to this moment, Mr. Secretary? Because 17 years ago, when his son's arm was torn off, he was in front of the prison again, and then what you said was that he had stripped off all the clothes that were on his son's arm, and now he's afraid that the same thing would happen to him, so he hasn't worn a skirt in 17 years, and he came back yesterday with his pants on, because he knew 17 years ago what those who were capable of only being able to stay in power could. In 17 years, nothing changed, and Mother Kezban was dragged to the ground 17 years ago, and yesterday she was dragged to the ground. That's what party justice and party police are all about. That's it? Look what you've done to this Speaker newspaper. You've launched a fabricated investigation into the Speaker's newspaper because it didn't bend or bend, it didn't back down from the line, it didn't go after the tender, it didn't button the button in front of you. We know why you opened that investigation. Because the Speaker newspaper has six printers, you want to seize that printer, you want to turn it over to a businessman who's famous for swearing at the mother of the nation, just like you did with Canaturk and TV today. Don't do that. Whoever seeks rights, you land on his head like a sledgehammer in Turkey. Reports of torture and detention are coming from all over Turkey. There are now over 50 detentions in Istanbul. Why? Only because they opposed the persecution of the KHK. Once again, we warn you: You make our mothers cry, you leave our young people unemployed, and you don't hear any of these cries. Let's just say that in order to stay in power, you put Turkey in an invisible dark tunnel. But rest assured that the dark tunnel, which cannot be seen, is lit with the smile of Nuria and Semih, with the cry of Mother Kezban, and is one step closer to the light. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a moment?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0096par0031	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0095par0032	We are aware that you are now seeking a system that cannot be judged, and that is why you are pushing Turkey into a darkness. We're in total darkness right now, but this pitch-black darkness is bound to come to light sooner or later. Remember, the darkest moment of darkness is the closest to dawn. We are now in the darkest of times, but I assure you, we are just as close to the light. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0096par0035	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend. Congressmans, I will now invite the speakers on behalf of the groups to the stand. The first speaker is Ankara MP Levent Gök on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Sky, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0041	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs to the Republican People's Party Group on the motion for the geneor of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. I salute you all with love and respect. But I see that the ruling party is incapable of defending the Minister. (CHEERING) What's this all about? Over there, with 20, 30 MPs, in front of a minister they know they can't defend...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0098par0043	You'll see him in the vote, in the vote.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0044	...of course the other AK PARTY MPs don't want to be in this room. The shame is enough for you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0098par0045	You'll see him at the vote, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0046	At this point of justice, I'm reporting to my people the state of the AK PARTY lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0099par0047	You'll see what happens in the vote.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0048	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the issue of this gene is that Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ is being partisan; that's the summation in a word.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0099par0049	Minister, the Minister of Justice is a lawyer; he doesn't need a lawyer; he defends.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0050	Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ is a name that implements the model of party judge and prosecutor in Turkey after the party's President model. Our friend just explained his details. Now, today we're seeing a gene question. As you know, the gene-responsive institution has been removed with a constitutional amendment. You should know that the Republican People's Party will bring back the geneor, as you have destroyed all the gains of the democratic and secular republic in the coming process. We'll get the generator back. Why are you afraid of removing your gene? Why is the opposition's most important control tool bothering you? The question is, do you think it exists only during the republic? Mr. President, in our country's 100-40-year-old parliamentary democratic tradition, it was implemented at the time of its first genus, Abdulhamit, on February 14, 1909. With the authority he did not receive from the people, even Abdulhamit, who came with the reign, failed to protect his appointed Sadrazam Kamil Pasha, who was shot down by a vote in Mebusanda on 14 February 1909. Now, the ruling party is putting us into an app that leads us to the rear of Abdulhamit, but no loot, the gene will come, and you'll have two hands on your side, dear friends, so know this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0100par0052	You'll always be in opposition! Then how will he come?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0101par0053	Well, be a power, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0054	My dear friends, on December 24th, a written test was conducted by the Justice Department to get a judge, to get a prosecutor. Some time after this judge and prosecutor's examination was taken, a written test was lifted with a decree before the full written examination results were announced. We see why you're so fond of decrees. What does this decree have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary? Is this the way to fight a war against a man? What's that got to do with it? I'd appreciate it if you could tell me. The decree 680 has been lifted from this written test condition, and the justice department has been given the official name in the interview, my dear friends, our objection. We're not looking at it personally. Perhaps our chosen, appointed friends' personal abilities are available, but for the first time in the history of the republic, the mayors, the mayors, the city councilmen, the congressmen, are judged by this list we have here, dear friends. This has no precedent in the history of Turkey. Of course, judges, prosecutors have political opinions, but for the first time, a Minister of Justice made judges and prosecutors who were registered at his party, who had a umbilical connection to his party. This is literally partisanism, and the Minister of Justice is a partisan Minister of Justice. It's so obvious, so clear. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why were they made? If you want to know why it was done, let's examine them a little bit. Look, my dear friends, one of the first applications since the Constitutional Amendment is the party presidency, the other is the HSK. Mr. Secretary, the ruling party gives very special attention to judges and prosecutors. There are truths of this particular importance: let the judges be ours, let the prosecutors be ours, and let us control them. This is the fact that the HSK's elections are being held at once and that they are being presented under the control of power. In this test, members of the EC PARTY, that is the logic of making rulers judges. Well, where did that come from, my dear friends? First of all, Mr. Minister of Justice has an interesting nature. Mr. Minister of Justice is a name the ruling party makes in any situation. Look, Mr. Secretary argues the same thing in a heated manner, and the next day, you can see the exact opposite of that when you're here defending it with the same intensity. Now, a review of the state of emergency is being discussed. Mr. Minister came to the stand here on July 21, 2016, and he said: "Friends, we want the extraordinary state of state for three months." We'll be done in three months. We're asking you for three months and we're going to remove it. Well, my friends, three months later, an extension of the state of emergency came to pass, and Bekir Bozdağ was on the stand again. Now, this is Bekir Bozdağ speaking, MPs, asking for your permission to extend the state of emergency for three months. He says, he talks, and you applaud! My dear friends, Mr. Secretary can express the same subject in the same heat, with no blush, as if those words he said three months ago were not his. Now, Mr. Minister has an interesting quality, he accuses everyone of being an expert. As you know, operations have been carried out in Cumhuriyet daily, Speaker newspaper, Cumhuriyet daily on 29 October, Speaker on 19 May. Now, I looked up what the Speaker newspaper had written, and I got it. I'm sharing their headlines with you. Now, the Speaker's newspaper says that I have identified 40 of the Fetullahists one by one, but I've been discharged from the army. So he's fighting against the Speaker's newspaper. Another one is the Chief Chief of the Turkish Republic of Turkey. The Speaker wrote it. Then, again, the daily Speaker: 15 percent of the money that the Cemaat collects goes to Fethullah. The daily Speaker writes it. Again, the Speaker's newspaper: "The Cemaat conspired with the army. " My dear friends, again, one of the most valued writers of the Speaker newspaper, Kusturk, wrote in the Journal of Hurriyet in 1994, where the Fethullahists infiltrated the police. Now, let's hear what Bekir Bozdağ, my dear friends, has said against the Speaker who fought against him at the time of this news. We are the gang. Be careful with this gang. When we say Turkey is surrounded by a gang, Bekir Bozdağ rises, comes to this stand, and says: "Fetullah Gülen is a valuable asset raised by this country. You like it, you don't like it, but it's a valuable person. He serves to bring up the generations of Turkey. Here's what's important: it's clear, everything under government control, how can you call him a gang? Mr. Bekir Bozdağ says he's my dear friends. Now, the Speaker's newspaper, Bekir Bozdağ, is not a journalist! (HPP applause) (HARP rows) Bekir Bozdağ says that... we continue to speak from these platforms to the press: watch out for Fetollah. One of Bekir Bozdağ's speech again: there are those who are genuinely striving to cause problems between the PARTI and the service. I want everyone to know that these things are absurd. With AK PARTY, the congregation doesn't come into a fit of fire, we get to know each other. We are well aware of the intentions of those who object to them. Now, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, after these words and after the newspaper headlines of the Speaker, if the Speaker's newspaper is a writer, then you are the king of the GERs. (CHP clapping in rows) How's that sound? Now, my dear friends, we will not allow cheap talks to be made here. We're trying to find out everyone's true identity. Look, now it's time for my dear friends to join the AK PARTY MPs. This power has led to the infiltration of this community, my dear friends. My dear friends, in 2011 at TÜBITAK, suddenly a change of president was made, the vice presidents were relieved of their duties. My dear friends with a decree in 2011. In 2011, a decree signed by Recep Tayyip Erdogan as Prime Minister and Bekir Bozdağ as Deputy Prime Minister was overturned by TÜBITAK; all the boards of TÜBİTAK have been replaced; the president, vice presidents have been replaced. This TUBITAK later gave false reports in Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, and Conspiracy cases, so false evidence that hundreds of people's lives were played by my dear friends. TÜBİTAK reported that dozens of people have lost their lives; there are those who have served four years in prison, and there are those who have served five years in prison. Later, before the July 15 coup attempt, an honest prosecutor came forward and announced his first indictment, my dear friends. This indictment is prior to the coup, I will point out that there is no more coup attempt, and this prosecutor in his indictment states that I share with you the following lines: the construction of the organization - Fetullah Gülen - TÜBİBİTAK. To become a member of the TÜBITAK, which the organisation considers a strategic institution and has taken into private spaces, it has provided a decree to be issued in 2011 in order to obtain it, says my dear friends. What does the prosecutor say in the indictment? With the decree issued in 2011, he has taken over the TÜBİTAK. • Who did this, and who signed this? The signatures of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and then Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, my dear friends. You'll say, "Well, what happened?" Do you know what happened after that, my dear friends? They've suspended this prosecutor. Why? Why would a prosecutor file an indictment and bring the AKP into it? Do you understand why the HSK is being changed now? Why are there judges and prosecutors appointed to judge executives from the AK PARTY, prosecutors? It's not over, my dear friends. There's another prosecutor. The coup has filed the main case indictment. My dear friends, at the beginning of 2016, the government presented a bill. A week later, 37 AK PARTY MPs offered a law proposal. In that proposal, 37 lawmakers offered an early liquidation of the days when Fetullah, the officers who came after Fetollah's organization in the army, and my dear friends and this bill passed through the Parliament, and the retirement of colonels in the army, who had served twenty-seven years, twenty-eight years, twenty-nine years. Now, my dear friends, another prosecutor has come forward and filed this indictment. I'm reading exactly what this prosecutor's indictment says. In this indictment, the prosecutor, who, finally, graduated officers from 1988 and previous years -- pay attention -- will retire three cycles collectively to liquidate from the TSK, and will reduce the service period to 28 years. He says, "This is the case." What law proposal? This is a bill issued under the signature of 37 AK PARTY MPs.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0102par0070	It's a political comment, not a political comment on the indictment. Read the reason.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0071	Now, my dear friends, our signed friends: Mr. Sureyya Sadi Bilgiç, Bkent Turan, Hatice Dudu Özkal, Ahmet Gündoğdu, Yilmaz Tuç, Cemalettin Kani Torun, Zechariah Birkan, Ayhan Güzer, Sebahattin Karakelle, Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Jihan Pektaş, Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu, Orhan Karasayar, Fatma Benli, Hasan Turan, Hulusi Senturk, Hurşit Yıldırım, Markar Eseyan, Osman Boyraz, Nurseli, Mehmet Canaz, Mehmet Canan, Abdullah Canan, Mehmet Kağan, Mehmet Kağan, Mehmet Kağan, Ahmet Kağ, Ahmet Kağ, Ahmet Kaş, Ahmet Kaş, Ahmet Kağ, Ahmet Kaş, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Kağul, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Kağul, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Kağul, Ahmet Erdın, Ahmet Kağur. Now, my dear friends, with the authority and the right I have received from this indictment, I say to all of you, what authority has made the dissolution of soldiers possible for you? You're being charged in the indictment.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0102par0074	In fact, it gives people authority, opportunity. Read the text of the law proposal.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0097par0075	Who made you change the law? Explain it here. If you don't explain, you'll all be branded. Get up, clear yourselves here, tell us that he made us do it, that he made us do it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm talking about the prosecutor's indictment, valued lawmakers. The prosecutor has found out that he had these soldiers change the law to the ruling party in order to retire early. I say, "Get up, defend yourselves from here, defend yourselves, if you're not from here, that's it! I want to face you, and I'm picking on all of you. I counted your names one by one, and I think you should all come and defend your rights here. I'm not a writer, so you're going to have to tell me that I'm the vice president or the vice president of the group or something. If you don't say so, my dear friends, you'll be in the indictments. Here's that HSK change, this judge and prosecutors change for these, my dear friends. Don't let him touch us. He says the Minister of Justice, the ruling party, the prosecutors. Because the honest prosecutors are coming out, looking at the evidence, some documents, some information, they're all in the indictment. Then what happened, my dear friends? Look, we're coming to the worst table. Then, recently, the raiders' indictment was filed. What does a prosecutor do when he writes the indictment? Takes him to court, sues him, right? Isn't that what a prosecutor does? He writes his indictment and takes it straight to court. No, my dear friends -- I'm speaking to the plaintiffs' indictment -- that night they dropped bombs on us from the sky, and we all stood together -- the prosecutor who wrote the raids' indictment didn't sue the court. You know what he did? He made an appointment with the Minister of Justice, went to the Minister of Justice. First the Minister of Justice saw the indictment to see if there were some arrangements for the AKP, political power, and then he saw that there were no arrangements for it. The Minister of Justice had branded it. After that, the prosecutor was able to open the raiders indictment. Do you understand, dear friends, why were the HSK elections held? Here are our judges, our prosecutors, who are appointed judges and prosecutors to arrange these indictments so that we don't look like the political wing of December 17-25, of Reza Zarrab, of ا, of the political investigations. That's the bottom line. Mr. Secretary, you're in a terrible situation. No justice minister in the world has such a view. A Minister of Justice can't do that in Turkey. What happens if you do? Turkey has largely lost its dignity. You have judges who, as with the Chief Prosecutor, try to button up their missing buttons, stand up in front of the President, comment on the laws of the law, comment on the files he will look at, and if there's an objection, he will do so, and argues that the rulings are necessary for democracy. That's what they're trying to do. You create judges like that, you create prosecutors like that. So what happens if you create prosecutors like this? The European Union of Judges will remove HSYK from its overall observer status and place it at the front of its door at a meeting of the Constitutional Amendment. This is the painting, my dear friends. It's a great loss of reputation, a tremendous lack of confidence, trust in justice, in the least case, the prisons are full, flooded. The two people who were on hunger strike... what would happen, Mr. Secretary, if we asked Mr. Ministry repeatedly, our president asked the Prime Minister, would it be the end of the world if you gave them an appointment? They say they've been wrongfully fired. Listen, if there's any way you can justify it, tell us. What is it? Why do you shoot people, break them, spill them? Do you think that if you do this, justice will come? Justice never comes. My dear friends, the motion for the geneorization that we've submitted... is literally a partisan practice, which opens a process in which judges and prosecutors are now in session with judges and prosecutors, after the party president in Turkey, the AK PARTI judges and prosecutors. Therefore, this motion is justified and appropriate. It's possible to reverse this error by accepting this motion for a gene. The Minister of Justice who made this mistake must be purged from the Ministry of Justice, and Turkey must truly meet justice. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0103par0085	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0104par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0103par0087	Mr. Can...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0104par0088	Mr. President, in his speech, he linked lawmakers who signed the bill to an organization as if they were committing a crime. My name came up, too. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0103par0089	Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0104par0093	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, it's completely blasphemous to make the friends who signed that offer look like they've committed a crime.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0105par0095	You have legal and political responsibility.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0104par0096	It's all bullshit. Besides, I don't think it's a very good idea for a law firm vice president. The MPs are offering the law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0106par0098	The prosecutor wrote it, the prosecutor wrote it, and a prosecutor who wasn't a prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0104par0099	Mr. President... The MPs use this because of a legal right due to a law proposal based entirely on the Civil Code; they have used it and they have passed the bill; there are Republican People's Party MPs in the Commission; there are General Kurula; there are Republican People's Party MPs in the General Assembly. It has also been seen that Republican People's Party MPs have supported the proposal. From here on out, the conditions for the legalization of a law proposal are clear. It's not right, it's unfair to associate this with any organization after the law has been passed. I was, in fact, here, on the night of Mr. President's 15th of July, Mr. Levent was here, and we were here as MPs, and we all defended national will here against this vile group of terrorists. The members of the National Movement Party were also here, and the Republican People's Party members were here. We've made a note of history, but it's not right to aspire to a political gain here, and it's not right to offend the MPs at this point. After the law is passed, if there are errors in the application, it can be corrected by a new law proposal, and if there are errors in the application, if there are problems, we can all discuss it here. It's not right to try to get political moisturizing from here, to pick up a political rant. I, Mr. Group, would like to invite our Deputy President to explain again, for his misunderstanding, with the respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0107par0104	It's not an explanation, it's an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0108par0105	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0108par0107	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0108	Sir, Mr. Can has made a statement stating that I have been misjudged as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0108par0109	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0112	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Ramazan Can, has confessed here, and we did this. I'm not saying otherwise either, Ramadan Can. Who made you sign this, brother? Tell me about him here, get up here, tell me about him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0110par0113	We threw it out ourselves.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0114	That's my problem. Look, I'm not saying this for nothing. I'm rereading the indictment written by the state's attorney, my dear friends. According to the indictment, the prosecutor says: "Finally, the state's attorney has ordered the state's attorney to retire all three cycles and reduce the service period to 28 years in order to remove the officers who had graduated from the TSK in 1988 and earlier years. My dear friends, what offer is this? It's a bill with your signature on it. And I say to you, come and save yourselves. I'm not an expert. The deputy leader of the group gave me instructions, or the vice president or the prime minister instructed me to do so. What are you telling me? Do you have your signature on the bottom? It's your signature. Does it say in the indictment that he made the political authority propose this law? I don't have a signature, you have a signature. I'm opening up for you; come, clear yourselves here, save yourselves.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0111par0117	Mr. Levent, you're talking nonsense, it's empty. There's no liquidation there.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0118	Whoever made you sign this... You see, the political foot of L.A., friends, it's all about facing it. Faced with ▪ Starts with explaining them first. Mr. Secretary will probably tell us all about it. Who gave you that order, who gave you that order?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0112par0119	Mind your own party!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0109par0120	With authority from whom, with instructions from whom did you sign this bill? That's my question. You have entered into the State's indictment. After that, I couldn't fit in with the deputy president of the group from here. I don't think it's right for you either, but don't be afraid, be brave, be brave, and you'll get me to sign this bill or something. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I give you the right to be exonerated. Don't argue with me on this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0113par0126	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0114par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0115par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0116par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0117par0130	Mr. Can...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0118par0131	Mr. President, he accused me of being an officer. I don't need to explain any more, it's teasing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0117par0132	Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0118par0135	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers can sign law proposals of their own free will, a right due to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0119par0136	What are you, an expert? Ramadan, tell me if you're a Laila. Tell me why you threw it away.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0118par0137	Also, he's a congressman, and I say it for myself, and I say it for my friends...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0119par0138	You tell the truth, the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0120par0139	You've opened up the way for him, the way for him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0118par0140	He's a scoundrel, he's a bastard, he's a supporter, he's a supporter, he's a scoundrel, he's a bastard!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0119par0142	Look, look, this indictment is an important indictment. Resign.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0120par0143	Quit, quit!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0121par0144	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0145	It is also the mufter who strives to collect political rants from here, who accuses him of being a member of the Party even though he is not a member of the Union. Everyone is obliged to prove their claim.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0123par0147	Come, I'll prove it to you. I'm proving it, Ramadan.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0148	I'd like to say this in the final words...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0123par0149	Ramadan, get up, brave, tell me who made you sign this signature, who made you sign it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0150	We, as lawmakers, have signed the bill, and we stand behind it, and this law has been passed here, in Parliament, in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0124par0151	Then you're in charge.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0152	In a nutshell, I'd like to say that on the night of July 15th...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0125par0153	Don't hide behind the coven. Who made you sign this? Who made you sign this? Is there?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0154	On the night of July 15th, Mr. Levent Gök, we all fought here together, together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0125par0155	We were here, and we ate bombs because of you, and that's why we ate it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0156	Is it true? We were together, we fought together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0125par0157	That's why we ate it, that's why we ate it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0126par0158	You're the one who made his way.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0159	But what I want to say from here is, yes, before December 17th or 25th, the AK PARTY may have taken some of the applications with this low structure.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0126par0161	The snake that doesn't touch you lives on, right?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0162	After December 17th-25th, who was your presidential candidate, and who was your presidential candidate?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0127par0163	You walked together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0128par0164	Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0165	After December 17th and 25th, the false evidence they brought...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0128par0166	Once you sign this bill, brother, I'll take care of it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0167	...your general president and you didn't use it as much as you could from this podium? Guys, let's put all this aside.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0129par0169	You stole the government together, you stole it together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0170	I just want to say that the last thing I want to say is that all the MPs are independent...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0129par0172	You didn't share the government you stole.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0173	...with which he signed the bill and is behind the signature.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0129par0175	You played together, you couldn't share the government.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0122par0176	It's the scoundrel who supports the low terrorist organization. It's not right to accuse lawmakers in that sense. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0130par0179	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0131par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0130par0181	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0131par0182	Mr. President, first of all, there's a problem with Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0132par0183	It's insulting, it's insulting to the President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0131par0184	Mr. Ramazan Can has insulted the President; for this reason, Mr. Ramadan Can has spoken in his speech, disputing the person who did not oppose him. As you know, Mr. President has said that we didn't give him what he wanted.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0133par0185	Get over it, get over it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0132par0186	"He who helps is a scoundrel, a bastard, a scoundrel," he said.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0131par0187	Anyone who helps is a scoundrel. According to Article 161 of the Civil Code, Mr. Ramadan Can must be processed for insulting the President. (CHEERING) I'd like to commend you, this is an important matter.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0134par0188	Interrupt the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0135par0189	You said it, we'll do it right now! We've been waiting for you!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0131par0190	In addition, Mr. Ramadan is trying to make the House a partner in his mistake by taking refuge behind the Can Assembly. Of course, HDP MPs, MPHP, all MPs have something to say about this. Why are you sharing a House with a congressman's misdemeanor? And after that, he teased me again by mentioning my name and expressed that my explanations did not reflect the wrong and the truth. I'd like to speak again because of the bullying, but I'd like to be processed for insulting the President under Article 161 of the Civil Code, perhaps you'd like to take a break from that.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0136par0192	Ekmeleddin Beye also calls him "The Administrator."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0137par0193	Mr. Gök, there are MPs standing up.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0138par0194	President Erdogan confesses openly that he helped.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0137par0195	Let's listen to them first, and then I'll promise not to tease you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0139par0196	Okay.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0140par0197	161, 161!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0137par0198	Mr. Master, come in. Dear fellow, I promise you, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0141par0201	Mr. President, Ramazan Can asked the Republican People's Party, who was your candidate for President after 17-25? You know, you remember, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoğlu, the president of the Republican People's Party, and we supported that election, and he is now our MP. From here, I'm not sure what Ramadan Can...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0142par0203	He's sedated.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0141par0204	I'm inviting our congressman to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0143par0205	Well, we'll demand it from him. Dear fellow, let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0144par0207	Mr. President, when I saw Mr. Ramadan's heated defence of his own party regarding today's matter, I came up with a photo in my archive, which I just took out to report. Of course, there are others, and if anyone wants a say, we'll open our archives about them. I'd like this photo to go on the record, folks. I ask that it be noted how Mr. Ramazan Can had an attitude towards partisan judgeship, and that the lawyer who owned the office he opened as a Kırıkkale MP was also one of the last appointed judges. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There are others here, and if any of the other friends object to it, that's how we can tell them who they're referenced to, with the data we pulled off the Justice Department website. Just for the record...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0143par0210	All right, Mr. Yfriend, it's on the record, it's on the record.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0144par0211	The others are here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0145par0212	You've settled your entire family, it's not enough.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0143par0213	Mr. Can, will you answer the request of Mr. Master Ekmeleddin Ihsanoğlu?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0146par0214	Mr. President, what I mean here is...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0143par0216	Wait a second, guys... Mr. Can, if you'd like to turn on your microphone, explain your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0147par0221	Mr. President, what I mean here is that this low-life terrorist organization has been created by the December 17th-25th incident.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0148par0222	You don't have one before that?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0149par0223	No way!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0147par0224	It was created on December 17th and 25th by its actions, by the coup d'état, by its use of law into politics, and the rulings of the AK PARTI began to fight this vile terror organization after that date. I mean, even after December 17th and 25th, some parties, especially the Republican People's Party, used their extensions as political arguments on the bench.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0150par0225	No, the presidential candidate...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0147par0226	Besides, at the point of the presidential candidate, I said: "The scoundrel has met at a nominee, supported by the terrorist organization." I mean it, it has nothing to do with the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0151par0227	Master, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0152par0228	Sir, we don't know anything about what Mr. Ramadan said.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0151par0230	Mr. Lawmakers, there really is a lot of humming and we don't hear what Mr. Ustah is saying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0152par0231	We don't know who he supported at that time. Let me talk over here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0151par0233	Okay, we'll turn on the mike. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0152par0236	We don't know who he supported at that time. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu Bey is a patriot who has never had a relationship with his country, his nation, not in any way with this structure, not even when he was in the congregation. (CHP cheers) So you have to be careful where the word goes. In this way, I advise them to avoid the words that would implicate our congressman or establish such a relationship. Otherwise, there's a lot to talk about here. So they need to be a little more careful. I think I want them to apologize without any comment for what happened to Ekmeleddin Bey.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0151par0237	Mr. Can, will you speak?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0153par0238	Apologize.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0154par0239	There's no need.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0151par0240	Okay. Mr. Sky, you have a request for a statement due to bullying. I'll give you my word for two minutes, but please don't give me any more trouble. The final word is yours, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0246	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, don't let God show anyone what the AKP lawmakers have really been through here, my dear friends. [[Republican Party (CHP) rows (Amin) voices, applause]] Now, Ramazan Can is a lifeline for these AKP MPs, and they're putting it out there. Ramazan Can, not just you, I counted the names of 37 MPs. I want them all to be given a say, and I'm picking on them all. According to the indictment, you're all members of the organization, my dear friends.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0156par0250	If you love God, let go!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0251	Get up here and defend yourselves. (CHP) According to the indictment, I'm saying I don't want to believe that my friends are GERPists. Let them come up here, to the stand, and say, "This is the kind of law that makes me sign." Look, I'll go door to door and I'll tell you all about it, guys. If you don't come in here and make a bold, bold statement, then this will stick and stick to you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0157par0252	For God's sake, leave a mud trail. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0253	I'm trying to save you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0158par0254	Save yourself, save yourself.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0255	Why are you suggesting Ramadan Can? Ramadan Can is already incapable of expressing himself. I mean, I really don't expect him to get into this situation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0159par0256	No one puts Ramadan before Ramadan; no one places Ramadan; Ramadan is a man of duty, and a man of duty.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0257	I mean, I'm not a writer. Even when I say "I've signed that law proposal," my dear friends say. And I'm asking you, who signed this? Ramazan Can, if you're defending me, tell me. Did you write this bill, brother? Who put you up to this? How did you sign the gold? Who signed it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0160par0259	They were partners, partner.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0260	Where's Sadi Intel? Where's Bulent Turan, deputy leader of the group? Let him tell us all about it. The indictment, my friends, the State's indictment. So, you've already changed the HSYK to make sure there's no more political relationship with this indictment, and you're giving the judges to your party.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0161par0261	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0262	That's the bottom line. I warn you that you will all be under suspicion unless there are bold explanations here. Don't stay, get up, defend here!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0162par0263	You save yourself first, save yourself.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0155par0264	My respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0163par0266	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit03spe0164par0267	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0164par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Aksu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0165par0009	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group for Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ's motion to open a geneor on the charge that he acted partisanly in order to bring the judiciary into his own ideological molds and design it in accordance with political interests. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. As the National Movement Party, we view justice as the basis of the state, guaranteeing basic rights and freedoms. Therefore, we accept that the judiciary will have a structure that people can trust without hesitation, that judges and prosecutors will have integrity and conscience, and that they will act first with an understanding that can first say "Turkish nation." We accept it as a guarantee of trust in the judicial system. There is no doubt that the judiciary should be made up of a structure that does not act in the direction of political authorities or certain individuals or groups, that does not allow certain belonging to overcome the sense of justice, but always defends the right. Since there is no justice delayed, a fair and swift trial must be provided at all costs. The defence right, an integral part of the judicial system, should not be eliminated or restricted. However, it is also a fact that the legal and judicial system in Turkey has faced growing problems in recent years. Unfortunately, these problems are common and manifest in many parts of the law. The biggest problem, however, is the perception that existing rules of law are not enforced or applied differently, depending on the individual or the situation. The factors that have led to this conclusion in society must be removed. The politicalisation of justice or an approach that presupposes the interests of one person or group will no doubt destroy the principle of neutrality and independence of the judiciary. The violation of the principle of equality, which is the most important element of the democratic legal state, and the problems that arise concerning legal security, also undermine the public's confidence in justice. One of the greatest dangers caused by the lack of trust and respect of the judiciary is that instead of solving conflicts in the judiciary, it tends to take other ways and methods. This points to chaos, chaos, and a dark painting that is never acceptable. Let us not forget that justice is the only mechanism in which we can resort to injustice and hope for despair. Therefore, the activation of the justice system, the well-functioning of the justice mechanism, is an area that makes it necessary for everyone to stand on it with care and precision. The facts, unfortunately, have shown, following the July 15 coup attempt, that judges in charge of dissolution of justice were acting on the basis of the law, not on the basis of the law, but on the basis of their instructions from Pennsylvania; the rights, law and conscience were suspended, and they made low decisions. The removal of these terrorists who have infiltrated the judiciary is the state's untenable primary duty, and the legal regulations and practices for this purpose are justified and appropriate. On the other hand, it is essential to determine how these traitors have infiltrated the judiciary over time, how they have come to important decision-making mechanisms, and who is responsible for them. Members of parliament, the July 15th traitorous coup attempt has been avoided by the Turkish nation's vast conquest, its commitment to democracy, its determination and determination, and democracy has returned from the abyss. Without a doubt, this treacherous attack on all political institutions, the unity and support of the Turkish nation and its state, which bloodied the country. It is not possible for us to ignore them and underestimate them. Therefore, we would never agree that our country should be abandoned to an understanding that state authority has been weakened. Turkey has the capacity, capacity and legal norms to provide the state and the nation's beka, peace and security on the basis of human rights and rule of law, without being exposed to freedom-security, anti-terrorism, justice and such dilemmas. We supported the implementation of the State of Emergency and the measures and decisions taken in this framework in Turkey's Grand National Assembly because there has been the most unusual situation in our country, an attack aimed at the Turkish state and Turkish nation. The state's hand was asked to be strengthened at a time when the state was facing serious threats in order to ensure public peace and dignity. In this scope, the fight continues against the people who have infiltrated the state institutions from education to health, from judicial security to state institutions. Of course, anyone who is involved in the July 15 coup attempt, who condones it, or does not comply with the responsibilities of its mission should be removed from state institutions. Of course, such findings need to be consolidated by certain conclusions in the investigation processes. Since there are not enough investigations and investigations, no one should be given a hand in their reputation, job, and social environment. We have dozens of citizens who have been arrested and exposed for months, who have not been informed of their crimes in any way, who claim not to be guilty. In this framework, objection mechanisms must be operated in a healthy manner and demands taken seriously. The State of Emergency Commission, which has been created, will be able to help the decision-making mechanisms move quickly with its assessments and decisions on principles and principles. In this way, the perception of disintegration and uncertainty in the application, especially in terms of objections, can also be removed. It is not only a right for our citizens to learn what they are accused of, but it is also a matter that will surely help to bring forth the truth and heal the victims if there is one. Investigating and delaying prosecutions will make it impossible for the criminal to leave the innocent, not reveal the truth and damage the fight against the terrorist organization. However, the main goal should be the destruction of the terrorist organization without overcoming any abuse. In the process, we care about the extradition of some exported public officials to their duties. We consider it a guarantee that if there are, mistakes will be corrected and victims will be solved. However, the claims that extraditions here are not based on innocence, but on torpedoes and pansuses, and if true, those who have caused it face a challenge that will not prosper either of them. Of course, the struggle will not be credible in the public conscience until the traitors at all levels who attempt to harm the Turkish state and the Turkish nation have been completely purged. The fact that the investigations have not been interrupted in the process has been unfortunate. I want to emphasize the importance of the lack of understanding, the support of our people to fight terrorism, and the fact that faith and trust in the government have not been weakened. In this framework, the planners of July 15th must be evaluated, investigated, and cleaned with the same care, regardless of the political and other aspects of the move-and-run leadership. The beginning of Turkey's new era, with a change of government system, should be cleanness. In the process, the clean policy, the clean society, the understanding of clean governance and the expectation that we offer at every opportunity must be carried out without delay. Now, Turkey must get rid of its burdens and be revived by the new government system built by the nation. Dear lawmakers, with a justice system protecting the strong, not the righteous, the efficient, accessible and fair state of the system will point to a justice order that everyone can trust in peace of heart. In this framework, the establishment of social harmony and peace by limiting various elements of power to the rule of law should be the main tasks of the state. In order for our people to live in a fair and just social order, the rule of rule of law should be never compromised, basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed, and freedom of rights must be fully used. According to judicial statistics, the number of judges in the Council of Europe is 20.3, while Turkey is only 12.5, according to information from Justice Minister Bozdağ, on May 12th. The average number of prosecutors in European countries is 11.1, while the average number of prosecutors in Turkey is 6.4. In addition, Turkey is ranked the 99th in the Global Index of World Law among 113 countries. In the coming process, it is important that these and similar shortcomings be quickly restored, and that the judicial mechanism be activated. Because this situation of the judiciary has a profound impact on the country's economy. With the right investment climate for the investor, political stability, the predictability of the countries' legal and public administrations is very important in investment preferences. It is not possible for foreign investors to be interested in a country where the judicial system is unpredictable and has problems with the rule of law. Therefore, the lack of justice system is crucial. As it is known, the constitutional amendment has brought in some new regulations, particularly the presentation of the high judiciary. When compared with the current state of the high judiciary in this framework, it can easily be understood that the system is rebuilding the judiciary on a solid floor by making it more transparent and accountable. In addition to independence of the judiciary, neutrality has been made a constitutional principle. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been freed from the structure that allows illegitimate structures capable of organizing to manipulate judgment through the HSK. Since the new system envisions a more transparent, accountable, and compromise-oriented structure for the formation of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, it is clear that the Supreme Court and Prosecutors appointed by the Council of Judges and Prosecutors will have a positive impact on the situation. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, it is our primary goal as Turkey to eradicate terror that has become the problem of beka, to establish peace and trust throughout our country, to ensure the lives and property of our citizens, to strengthen our unity and unity, to ensure our future, to keep our people alive, and to make our state a permanent share. We find it important that a political understanding of our state, which is dominated by democratic culture of maturity and reconciliation, exclusion and aberration, and that the national and moral values of Turkey, the principles of our constitution, are considered a common denominator of the principles of the institution in the first three Articles of our Constitution. At the point where we think today is the first requirement for Turkey and for all those who share the sensitivities to move the Turkish nation into the future, instead of looking at matters from the pure political party's framework, to get out of the period that has been passed around the ideal for integration. The fact that this understanding can be realized has made it necessary for the uninterrupted full democracy that will lead to the integration of politics with society at all levels, to remove the antidemocratic, informal rule, institutional and structures that have led the state away from society, history, and national identity, as well as the rule that will allow Turkey to tear off its own shell and bring civilization-building values to the oppressed nations. We consider nationalism and democracy to be twin brothers, and we want to dominate a compromise dynamic based on the rise of democratic standards. Dear lawmakers, it is vital that the implementation of the merit system is uncompromising for the existence of a healthy functioning judicial system and public administration. The most important element of human resources management is the principle of truth that defines the character of public administration. As a result, every Turk has the right to enter public services in the 70th article of the Constitution. In the service, no distinction can be observed except the qualifications of the task. However, the principle of righteousness is not only theoretically sufficient. The important thing is how important the practice is and how important it is. Appointments for protection of a person or group have a very negative impact on the quality of the judiciary and bureaucracy and the quality of public services. With the quality of public service improved, loyalty to home and nation, loyalty to national values must undoubtedly be an integral part of righteousness. Otherwise, Turkey will have no meaning, even if it is the judge, the prosecutor, the chief or the officer allamecihan, after not saying Turkey first, the Turkish nation first. We believe it is a measure under the scope of the anti-terrorism organisation to organise the motion we are discussing. We're considering that it's all about taking precautions against possible infiltrations as part of the fight against terrorist organizations. However, it is not possible for us to agree with the abuse of the ruling on the measure, as well as with an understanding of the political or other group's interests, by ignoring the conditions that Turkey is under. I'd like to stress that we find these and similar measures mandatory by July 15th to be abused, misappropriated, or devalued, against the rule of law and against the interests of state and nation. While Turkey's need to create law, democracy, human rights and a transparent governance system is at an extreme stage, it is clear that practices that will lead to allegations of irregularity and favourability do not match the expectations and demands of our citizens. In this framework, it is vital that all measures and operations taken under the State of Emergency be conducted in a clear and transparent manner and that the public be informed correctly. Remember, as a nation, we're going through a process where we need unity and unity and trust and justice the most. We, the National Movement Party, want to continue a decisive and effective fight to bring the end of the government of the PKK, to free our nation from the scourge of PKK, to eradicate ISIS and other terrorist organizations, and support the steps taken to this purpose. In this framework, I'd like to say that we don't find the initiatives that could interfere with the challenge, along with the security dimension of the fight, by dragging the key foot of the judicial process into the area of debate with various debates. As I finish with these thoughts, I salute you once again.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0166par0027	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Third speaker for the groups, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0167par0032	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have always been a problem area in Turkey, it's always been a problem area, it's been a deep problem area. And today we're still discussing the trial because of the geneorization given about Mr. Secretary. From the beginning of the Republic of Turkey, it is possible to determine the cornerstones: the administrative courts and the trials there, then -- the anniversary of the 1960s, May 27th coup -- the retrials, then the martial law courts, then the DGMs, then the private courts; they were all practices, the institutions that ruined justice. The mentality behind it was to eliminate political opponents and opponents using the judiciary. Who can tell you that the trials in the Supreme Courts today are just, the prosecutions, the martial law, the trials in the DGMs? What was done there was to use open judgment as a means of liquidation and intimidation by the power. Recently, we had experience with special authorities, and the special authorities had the same understanding in the courts. The mentality that provided these courts was again to punish opponents, the different ones, those who disturbed power in a arbitrary way and to purge them from the political field. The AKP courts are where we are now. Yes, the system is now a party judiciary system, which has been in step since 2014. Unfortunately, the people who built this system are from a base that has complained about all the examples I've counted in the past. The tradition is at the bottom of this party, which has claimed those who have been hurt by the judgment of the Supreme Courts. Among those who oppose their judgment is a large group that votes, hearts and supports this party again, voting, heart and support the AKP. In martial law courts -- after September 12th, after March 12th -- many others were tried unfairly, unfairly, but they were also practices that people from conservative sociology were hurt and they were also complaining. So, what's the AKP doing today? In all these examples, he said he was objecting to injustice, condemning them on various occasions, what are the governments of this party doing? They maintain the same mentality by strengthening it. The judgment is given instructions, clearly, without concealing them. For example, let's just remember the President's speech on immunity: "Untouchables must be removed." He said, he insisted on saying that in the squares; then the AKP Group took action in parliament, prepared a constitutional amendment. With this amendment, our immunity has been lifted illegally again. After the removal of those immunitys, the President continued to target our party in the squares. Now, let me remind you here of the date of preparation of the proceedings against our beloved Co-Chair Denizhattin Demirtaş. There's a total of 96 arguments. All of this is based on political studies, talks, speech, debates, and lawsuits based on them. About half of the fezlekes, these 96 fezlekens, were prepared after July 28, 2015. So in May, immunitys are being debated because the process is being completed; then in the squares, during election work, our party is being targeted by the President again; then the proceedings begin to prepare quickly. 15 proceedings are being prepared here during the meeting of the Constitutional Amendment in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and even one hearing is being prepared on the day of the vote. It's no different in other cases. Upon instruction, the prosecutors have prepared these proceedings -- we're leaving the explicit instructions to your assessment -- and now they're going on trial with this joy. Look, it's been declared a state of emergency. On what grounds? July 15th was declared for the purpose of fighting the coup attempt and its effects, such as the coup attempt. But the state of emergency has been transformed into an opportunity to reset the law. No law today. Before, the law may have been applied in a way that was good or bad or incomplete; there were also great injustices, there were great criticisms, disturbances, unrest, but there were some examples that we could say were not over. However, after July 15th, the law was nullified, as it was announced. In Turkey, the judiciary has always been a big problem, but in the last two years, it's no longer a problem. Why? Because there's no more judgment. There's no problem with the judiciary because it's not a trial, there's an arbitrary order where political power uses all means of its own use, and once again, Mr. Secretary of Justice, they'll tell us what it feels like to be Minister of Justice, but they'll be able to answer the following questions: We don't know their numbers, not 5,000, not 5,000, but about one quarter, 23.4 percent of them, I think they've been discharged. No motive, no judgment, no defenses. There was a reason for their expulsion, as they were members of the congregation and associated with the coup. Now, if you're able to release judges without supervision, in a arbitrary manner, by order of the law, which judge can decide against the will of the political authority who has the authority to issue this decree? He can't. For example, our friend Idris Bauken was taken into custody, arrested, released after being arrested for some time. The court judge who issued the decision to evacuate was soon banished to Ankara. He was lucky again because he could be discharged, arrested. Now, what judge will act fearlessly, carefreely when he decides to evacuate? We continue, you have removed, expelled, expelled judges you claim to be members of the congregation or members of the congregation; over 100,000 people have been relieved of their duties, their jobs, their bread. To explain and defend this, representatives of power often give the example of East Germany; they say similar liquidations were made in Eastern Bloc countries after 1990. True, it was done there, not only there, but in Argentina, after the coup, in Chile, in other countries, but there's one very important thing that's been done there, Mr. Secretary: Directors were first dismissed, executives were first tried, even principally executives were tried. Now, we're asking you: you're a party that has been in power for the last 15 years, all the public officials you've eliminated, including judges, prosecutors -- you have your ministers' signatures, the prime ministers, the presidents' signatures signatures; you have the authority to govern the bureaucracy, but don't you file a single lawsuit against those who take them? Don't we get one investigation out of the lawsuit? Come on, you haven't filed an investigation, what if it's a proper apology, and it's that hard to make a self-criticism? We've been tricked." And you think it's possible to get out of it? The public conscience, the public conscience, of course, sees and condemns this outrage. Perhaps you can prevent people from reacting now with the pressure tools of power, but as we've seen in many instances, those who practice persecution policies will eventually have to answer for their actions. Again, look at the recent date. For years, the congregation controlled the judiciary. Of course, the real political responsibility was in the AKP governments, but it was actually the congregation's judgment. All the methods they used against the parts they wanted to liquidate at that time are now being used against them. When we used to call it an institutional system, we called it a foster home.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0168par0041	Congressmans, there's a lot of humming in the General Assembly. Please listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0167par0042	... Those who used the judiciary as they wanted, such as those who filed the 367 decisions that you had complained about, such as the closing of the AKP, for example, were able to determine those judicial bodies that have decided to convict President Erdoğan, which have politically banned him, and they were using them. But then the congregation came to judgment and used those methods against them. The congregation didn't get away with it. After that, the same methods are now used against the congregation. I've warned you many times here, these methods will be used against you the day after tomorrow. The main thing is to break the cycle of cruelty. Any government that used the methods and mentality of the previous era eventually had to be judged in the same way, and had to answer. Now, which of the arrest grounds should I count, what absurdities? I've been a law teacher all these years, I've worked in the field of justice, I've studied a lot of indictments, but, frankly, I've never seen a more arbitrary, reckless attitude in this era. Did you read yesterday the reason for the arrest of two people on hunger strike? Do those people here digest what they're doing when they're being taken into custody? What do they want? They want their jobs. You're calling people who want their jobs terrorists. Look, anyone can declare a terrorist today. I remind you over and over again that when the majority you declare terrorists tomorrow, they will declare you terrorists, and you will be judged by the laws and methods you practice today. When you're tried, you won't have the right to object. No harm will ever be done to them, nor will they do it. Therefore, today's oppressors -- a thinker -- are judged by the wrong-doers of another time. That's not what we want. We want to break the cycle of persecution. We don't want a Turkey where after a period of persecution, others will use methods of persecution again; we want a country where the state of law, democracy, equality, justice dominates, we want a society. We've always been against the cycle of persecution, and we'll be against it again. Any government that refuses to break the cycle of persecution, but uses it as an opportunity, will surely get caught in the gears of that wheel. I have to give this warning over and over again. Now, for example, there is a prosecutor in Diyarbakır, Kurtça Eker; then appointed on January 17, 2015; then, in June 2016, a month after the curfews were lifted here, he became Deputy Attorney General. Our co-Chair Demirtaş, our MPs Gülser Yıldırım, Çağlar Demirel, Merkel Danış Beştaş, is the prosecutor who has filed the indictment for the arrests. This prosecutor, look at the cases where the trials were finally carried out, they've had new statements, so take these into consideration. He's done something like that. It's fun. I don't know if Mr. Shamil Tayyar is in this room, but he has said many times that he is rebellious. They appointed this prosecutor from Antwerp to Diyarbakır. You're not listening to us, listen to your deputies. And let me remind you that those who attack opponents like that, in the best possible way, eventually have other connections. Here's the latest example: the Ege University Rector. He was a hard-core Erdogan man, a tight liquidator; now he's been purged. Today, those who shout, those who appear to be the most militant, let's crush the opposition, forget the law, the justice. I fear they are acting in their hearts in fear of a great guilt. We also warn you that the day after tomorrow we have been deceived. Do not say again, for these deceptions do not have personal consequences, but kill justice in this land. Every practice that slays justice puts dynamite in this country's social peace, its presence, and its future. So it's going to continue until the extraordinary state of peace. You say, that's a very bad, very dangerous understanding. Instead, say, "Let the state of emergency be over immediately." Let's make all the actions, regulations that will break this cycle of persecution with democratic debate and debate in this House. As soon as we get this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0169par0050	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0167par0051	Let's get this country out of this unfair cycle, out of the vortex. Again, before I finish, I would like to remind you that in Latin American countries, an expression of injustice and pleasure is used to describe: "Friends are treated fairly, the enemy is enforced by law." Now, let me tell you, all dictators who exercise that understanding have been judged. Life shows that a system based on that understanding creates a deep anger in social areas that are excluded and exposed to injustice, deepening political tension and polarization. Those who use these methods are victims of these methods. Finally, a saying from the Lord Ali: "Do not bow to injustice, for you will lose your right and your honor. " My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0170par0056	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. Mr. Pickles has entered the system, but is he here? No. Well, the fourth and final speaker on behalf of the group is Mr. Hamza Mountain of İzmir on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the motion of the Republican People's Party's Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ. I salute you with love, with love, with conversation. Judicial appointment in Turkey has always been a matter of concern over its importance. The issue of undisputed judicial appointments in many countries is at the top of fundamental debates in our country. As we look at the root cause of this situation, it is very effective that the judiciary is an instrument of custody until April 16th. The judicial body, which has no democratic legitimacy but has established a legal and executive body that is directly shaped by the nation, is located at the center of democratic debates, whether it wants to or not. While political parties, executive and legislative bodies have gone through democratic transformations and transformations, depending on the preferences of the nation, the judicial body has come to be a model of long-term staffing and designing politics. For this reason, judicial appointment in Turkey has always been an important agenda. When I read this genome text, I actually smiled first, and then I meditated, and I thought, and I was happy; I went back fifteen years. In fact, it's a strange expression of history that I'm your brother, a congressman, who's been eliminated from the judge's exam interview and has had some strange questions. In 2002, when Anasol-M was a government and Justice Minister Hikmet Sami was Turkish, I entered the judgeship interview on May 9, 2002. The day before May 9, 2002, I asked my friends at the time to find out what was being asked about the interview. They said, "First, they're making me tell you the background. We know about the self-expression from about three to five years ago, but there was some difficulty in my personal history against the subject of that period, of course we were going to say this. We started to talk about it, we got an interview: I was born on March 1, 1980, in the village of Demirci, Manisa. We were transferred to Kütahya Simav district because of my father's service in Demirci district of Manisa. Yes, imam. Then after finishing secondary school and high school in Simav, finish 9 September University Law School... while I continue, what is middle school and high school? Questions: describe the unchangeable articles of the Constitution. Article 1: The state of Turkey is a Republic. The Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state based on basic principles laid forth in terms of peace and prosperity of society, national solidarity and justice, respect for human rights, and Ataturk nationalism, and the direct question when giving its answer is: tell me about secularism, and let it be as it pleases you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0172par0066	It's not the 1st article, it's the 2nd article.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0067	Dear friends, what happened, what happened, until you arrived in 2002, should be mentioned first.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0173par0068	You asked me if there was a sea in Pertek.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0174par0069	What are you asking now, now? Tell me about him. Now...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0070	Look, we all know the courts of Yassuada in 1960. I'm not going to tell you about the trials in the court of Yassuada, but I'm going to tell you right now with examples of how many years the judges who served in the court of Yassyada are an oligarchy structure within this judicial system. Among the judges and prosecutors who served in the court of Yassiada after the 1960 coup were three Supreme Court of Justices, two Supreme Judges, two Supreme Court Chairs, the Chief Prosecutor and the YSK President. A few examples: Omar Altay Egesen, 17 years after the 1960 coup, was Supreme Court 1 in 1977. He's the head of the Department of Corrections. One of the military judges of the period was Yassiada High Investigation Board member and Deputy Chief Justice Necdet Daricioğlu was appointed as a member of the Constitutional Court in 1977, and in 1990, he was President of the Constitutional Court thirty years later. So, that obligarchic structure that was built in Yassia, continued until the 1990s.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0175par0072	Maybe if you were a judge, you'd leave, become a congressman.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0073	In 1960, Cevdet Mentesh, a member of the High Investigation Board of the Yassıada court, also served as Supreme Court Chairman from 1972 to 1978; he also served as Minister of Justice in the government of the Bulent Nation in 1980. These examples can be replicated, there are many examples. Clearly, this oligarchic structure reached the 1990s, did it leave after the 1990s? Yes, twenty-five years have passed since the 1990s. Not 25 years from now, but 50 years from now, if there's going to be talk about being on the stand, there's two names that people will think of, and I won't mention them, but you'll know who they are, and I'll just say what they say here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0175par0075	One of their judges remains, the other judges are inside.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0076	Yes, I've removed 5,000 people from the government who were tested. He was the Minister of Justice of the Coalition government.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0175par0077	If it wasn't for the judges they took, there'd be no judge.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0078	He got it out of the government. Was I to give these staffs to nationalists and not to my organization? Again, another justice minister at the time says that during my time we received 2,000 judges, prosecutors...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0176par0080	You took 4,500 judges, and you fired 4,500. You have taken the men, the men.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0081	▪ These positions are democratic people who will grow in the future. If it's a crime, I'll keep doing it, I won't give up. I will not leave this office either. All of Turkey now knows who the former justice ministers were.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0176par0082	The files are piled up, there's no judge, the judge; they're all what you got in there. We've seen what you've seen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0083	We lived on February 28th. On February 28th, we saw how the judiciary became political. On February 28th, me being a member, and even though we weren't old enough at the time, a lawsuit was filed against the Welfare Party, which we were so devoted to. Look, there's been a closed case, a elected government... the government was destroyed, February 28th. The point is, that's what happened in the trial department when the Welfare Party closed the case.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0177par0084	Hamza, get to the point. Come to the next question, the next question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0085	At that time, the President of the Constitutional Court would go on TV and make a statement almost every day.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0178par0086	Okay, we get it, you claim you're not a singer, so...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0179par0087	It's been narrating the question all morning. Listen, listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0088	So, why are those who didn't respond to them at the time talking about being on the stand today?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0180par0089	The incident took place in 2016.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0171par0090	Before the decision of the Constitutional Court on the closure of the Welfare Party was made in the period prior to that period of the closure of the Welfare Party, the decision would appear in newspaper clippings, column articles, televisions. Wasn't there a position in the judiciary when it was said? Honestly, what do you guys think?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0181par0091	Where was the AKP Ýzmir province building, where was it? Why did you kidnap him?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0182par0092	Hamza, that's not the point of our genome, get to the point of our genome.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0181par0093	Why did you kidnap the AKP County Building?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0094	Dear Yid, we have no fear of owls.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0181par0095	Why did you kidnap him?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0096	We're a pack of hawks, we've got nothing to settle, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0181par0098	Why did you kidnap the AKP County Building? If you don't have an account you can't pay, why are you filling the judges with judgment? Why are you running away?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0099	Look, the Welfare Party is closed, and then the Ponzi scheme is established.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0184par0100	Hamza, get to the point!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0101	I don't think those who were in the mood for these parties were in any condition to go into space. Look, I have something to tell you. It's about being fully staffed...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0184par0103	Mr. President, alert the speaker, he's speaking out of question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0185par0104	It's all about the gene, the gene. When you're uncomfortable, you say "except the general."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0105	None of my predecessors talked about the generic content.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0186par0106	Mr. Sky, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0183par0107	But I'm telling you in chronological order where we've brought politicalism and staffing into the judiciary. Wait for the end of my speech. You'll finally understand what I mean.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0187par0108	The pot's black and yours is black. You did it to me, I did it to him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0188par0109	Compared to what? It will compare today to the past.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0189par0110	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0111	Dear friends, we have a closed case on the Party of Virtue. Look, from that timely indictment...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0191par0112	Hamza, are these appointed judges from AKP, or not? Tell me about it!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0192par0113	The head of the group doesn't say a word, it's rude.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0114	In what way did the Supreme Court's Attorney at that time make a statement in the indictment? He made a statement, such as a wicked ur. So was that indictment a legal indictment? That indictment is a political indictment, and isn't it ironic that those who should stand up against this indictment that says so on the basis of the Welfare Party, that those who should say, "We are lawmakers" are, in fact, silent, and now come here years later with such a motion?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0191par0115	Hamza, get to the point, tell me about the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0116	At the time, the Ankara DGM Attorney General made statements almost every day, making statements on political and political issues.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0193par0117	If you love Erbakan so much, why did you run away from the party? Why did you break up with Erbakan? You left Erbakan, in the middle! You left it in the middle and ran away.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0118	Most importantly, everyone applauded, you clapped. Judges were briefed, judges were briefed by military officials. The soldiers who briefed those judges were applauded. The judges and prosecutors who didn't go there were brought to the level of isolation from the community.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0194par0119	They've come out too.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0120	You were going to say something back then, you were going to say something. This is how it came to be until 2002. Has anything changed since 2002? He hasn't changed yet.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0195par0122	Those who came after 2002 are from the prison.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0123	Again, there had to be a lot of struggles. In fact, with this staffing mentality, there was always the need to fight that judgment with the idea of its own mental infrastructure.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0196par0124	Don't be a staffer here, Mr. Hamza. Look here, look, look.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0125	Look, dear friends, there will be judges, prosecutors, of course, with world views. Everyone has a worldview. We studied in the same classes, we went to the same school, they all had the worldview, but when the judge and the prosecutor decided on independence and neutrality, when they made indictments, they left their world view on the doorstep, but unfortunately we didn't see them at the time or later.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0197par0126	Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0198par0127	They're arresting everyone without evidence, without evidence!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0190par0128	There were 367 freaks, 367 issues, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0199par0129	Judges who arrest journalists run away, can't look us in the eye, can't look us in the eye.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0200par0130	Sit down, sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0201par0131	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0202par0132	Relax, relax. Relax.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0203par0133	You're under arrest. They're running away. Such a judge, instructed judges.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0204par0134	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0205par0135	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0206par0136	I know what I'm talking about hurts you a lot, and I know it bothers you a lot, and I know it touches you a lot.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0207par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0205par0138	Dear fellow, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0208par0139	They can't look us in the eye, they run out the back door.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0140	You just relax. Don't let your prejudice make you a slave. God has created you free.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0208par0141	Come and see the court one day.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0210par0142	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0143	Dear friends, I must use my time wisely, I have more to say. You'll understand what I mean by what I said last time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0211par0144	You'll need justice one day.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0145	Dear friends, the AK PARTY power has been established, and over the legislation and execution of the AK PARTI power, there have been some ulterior motives, through the judiciary, that are ideological, in line with mental infrastructure, haven't there? I would like to say this in particular: OK, the judgment was used as a custody body, but above all, it was used to design life and execution when there was no law and execution that fit my view of the world. That's politics, that's what we're really short-staffed about. Stuff about that. I'm not talking about the ancients. Here, again, a Supreme Court attorney brought up 367 put forward here, as he saw fit for his own worldview. He didn't have the app until that day, but he had to produce something, he had to say something, because at the time, the AK PARTY had a majority of electing its own President, its own MPs, and its own President. He made it up to the law, in his own mind. He made it up to the law and he had 367 freaks. Then who brought this 367 matter to the Supreme Court? How did the majority get out of the Constitutional Court again? Nine hundred and Surprise? No. Because it was said in the newspapers days ago, that there would be a nine-by-two on television. There's been a 411 decision. Guys, the law has been put under duress in the 411 verdict.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0212par0148	Hamza, get to the point, get to the question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0149	Our most basic law is first-class in constitutional law class, and constitutional amendments can only be studied in the form of procedure. Here, in secret voting, 411 MPs made a constitutional amendment, an arrangement for the headscarf, but again, the Constitutional Court has been put aside on the subject of a change of procedure, and a sentence has been reached.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0213par0150	That was wrong. Does it have to be wrong?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0151	It's all illegal, and according to ideology, according to the brain, it's not in my opinion... we have headscarved brothers here now. What happened? Is there a problem?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0213par0152	We supported it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0153	If you did, why did you go to the Supreme Court? How did you support it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0214par0154	What did we take to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0155	The AK PARTY and the MHP together, 411 MPs. You'll pass them, you'll pass them.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0215par0156	He's improved by our president's attitude.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0157	Dear friends, in the July 22nd election, 46.7 per cent of the vote to the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0216par0158	Hamza, look, yesterday in Ankara, a woman with a headscarf was dragged to the ground. Tell me about him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0159	I'm not talking about a chapter in history, it hasn't been ten years, it's been seven years, eight years.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0217par0160	Here, here, here, the woman with the headscarf, here, look, the woman with the headscarf is here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0216par0161	Isn't that the woman with the headscarf?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0162	The AK PARTY has been sued for closure, my friends.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0218par0163	There is no precedent for evil, Mr. Hamza.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0164	I know what I'm saying is small-time, and I know it bothers you. You're too loud for him, but I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0219par0165	Hamza, he never touches us, he never touches us. You come to the gene, come to the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0218par0166	Don't tell me the date, come to this day.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0209par0167	I'm going to say it all because I've been the victim of this mindset, of this mentality, of that state-of-the-art mentality in 2002.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0219par0168	Burhan Lamb's photo also appeared today.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0220par0169	Here's the woman with the headscarf.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0221par0170	You put the turbans in prison.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0171	The years proved me right, and years later, I was able to shout this right from this stand. I'm going to cry out for that right. We've been through this for years, and we're going to make sure that today, of course, we're going to bring it up.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0221par0172	You put the turbans in prison.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0223par0173	Today we are the ones who suffer. Are you saying that?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0174	But I want you to know that we're not going to do the same thing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0224par0175	What else are you gonna do? You've made a lot of people cry!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0176	After 17-25, after July 15th, the reflection of July 15th may have some difficulties in our country, but know well that this judgment will not be anyone's backyard. I'll make that very clear.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0224par0178	Now the AKP's backyard is AKP's backyard.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0179	Now, about the closing case. Now, the closing case, my dear friends... [[Noises from CHP rows, knocking on row doors]] Guys, the AK PARTY got 46.7%, 46.7%.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0224par0182	Does he give you the authority to appoint judges? Why are you making judges mayor of the county? You're having a party judge, a party judge. Tell me all about it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0183	AK PARTY has been sued for closing with a number of statements and a number of words from Google. I'm not talking about a hundred years ago, I'm talking about this thing here eight years ago. And that's when I wish you'd thought of the law you're screaming at right now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0225par0184	Look at the 2011 report, the 2011 report.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0222par0185	But know well that we are well aware of your jurisprudence. So whatever that mentality is over there, we're not going to apply the same mentality today, we're definitely not going to apply it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0226par0186	That's why you make people go to prison, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0225par0187	You're taking an AK PARTY member, so what else are you going to do?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0227par0188	You're doing more cathartic.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0189	I'll be in December 17-25, and I'm not in December 17-25 yet. Look, we've been through December 17th and 25th. During December 17th-25th, when we were working hard to save this nation from that vortex, the state, the nation, the probate, that coup attempt, when we were changing the HSYK Law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0225par0190	We're sleeping.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0229par0191	Did I appoint you to be Zechariah? You appointed it, you brought it. Who are you worried about, Zechariah Oz, when you gave your Mercedes?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0192	Look, there's a six-file report on the Justice Commission, I've read it all, guys, I've read it all. Look, in these proceedings, our Minister of Justice at the time says: "Come, friends, change the HSYK by law, if necessary, let's change the Constitution." Let's make this amendment together, let's do it together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0225par0193	Who appointed those prosecutors and judges?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0194	Look, individuals, we, the lawmakers, Hamza Mountain and all of our MPs...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0230par0195	Did I appoint Zechariah Oz? Did I appoint my Mercedes? You gave your Mercedes to Zechariah.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0231par0196	Hamza, don't lie.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0197	Look, wait a minute, I have something to say. Our MPs are Fatih Şahin, Şükrü Erdinç, Smurf Pasha; we can't go back a hundred years from now, but these reports will go back a hundred years.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0231par0199	What have they got?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0200	Look, in these proceedings, you went far enough in the Justice Commission to defend a statement issued by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors at the time. I'm afraid you've come to the defense of an institution like the Academy of Justice. You have declared the legitimate government illegitimate. In the legal struggle against those who put dynamite at the foundation of this state, you went out, and you broke down the foundations of the state again.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0232par0201	Who was the prosecutor on the Ergenekon case, the prosecutor?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0202	You've defended the prosecutor of MIT trucks, you've defended Zechariah's self-defense, there are reports, friends, it's all in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0233par0203	You were the prosecutor of the Ergenekon organization.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0234par0204	You were the prosecutor of Ergenekon, and of Sledgehammer, and of Oda TV. Innocent people have been in prison for months, years.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0205	In fact, you went further and said, "The battle is your quarrel, and we will not be part of the quarrel between the children of Telli and the children of Sefer.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0234par0206	You were the prosecutor of conspiracy cases, conspiracy cases.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0207	Dear friends, look, I've said all of this, and I'll make it very clear that at this moment, all the congressmen who have submitted this motion for the generic, during the AK PARTI rule...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0234par0208	Mr. Hamza, could the party judge be the prosecutor? Name it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0209	Listen to me for a second.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0234par0210	Is a party okay? Name it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0235par0211	Yeah, you never told me about the gene, Hamza, I'm not listening. Sit down already!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0212	...there's no engagement, there's no political bias in the judiciary, and they know it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0236par0214	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0228par0215	Look, right now there are 15,624 judges and prosecutors inside the judge and prosecutors.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0237par0216	You made your district president a judge, okay?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0238par0217	Read it, look what it says.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0239par0218	Can you read?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0240par0219	And the friends who gave this motion to a certain community, a certain political opinion, a specific political opinion, that they don't belong to a specific sect, and do you know why they're making this motion? There used to be a system where he could make laws as much as he wanted, make laws here, even change the Constitution. The Supreme Court is there anyway, in the same mind as me, in the same mind.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0241par0220	And now he's in the same mind as you, you mean?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0240par0221	I -- if the law does, if the Constitution changes -- I'll get the Constitutional Court to cancel, or who the ministers come from, brother, what the hell?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0241par0222	So you're saying it's our mentality.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0240par0223	He's got regulations, he's got his coefficient removed, he's got his headband removed in college, I'll go to the State, I'll cancel it. If a political party contradicts my view of the world, I'll tell the Supreme Court Attorney's office that a closed case will shut down that political party.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0241par0224	Mr. Hamza, drop the date, tell me about today.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0242par0225	Hamza, you never told me the question.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0241par0226	Now you're giving the order.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0227	Again, a congressman was elected, picked up, came in, sat here. It's against my view of the world. I'll tell the DGM Attorney. That DGM Attorney will take that MP out of his house if he has to. That's the system that's changing now. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Guys, he's in old Turkey now. Wake up from hibernation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0241par0230	Tell me what you've done, what you've done.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0231	We, our President, our leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have destroyed this custody of justice.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0244par0232	New custody, new custody.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0233	Now that the rule period is over, the nation's reign has begun, by sticking its back to forces. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After April 16th, you can only be in power by holding your back on people, you can't be in power by holding on to certain forces, my friends.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0245par0236	Where is Davutoglu?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0246par0237	You leaned on the High Election Board, made your back unsealed.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0238	I'll tell you last. Be assured that as long as the AK PARTY is in power, we will never do what you do.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0247par0240	Oh, for God's sake, what else are you gonna do?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0241	Politicalization in the judiciary, staffing in the judiciary, 7,000 judges, prosecutors, say you've got your Minister of Justice. There are 15,000 judges, prosecutors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For him, know well that in our time, basic rights and freedoms will be guaranteed.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0248par0244	Yavuz is a thief...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0243par0245	I'm saying that after July 15th, this temporary state of emergency will be lifted as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0249par0246	You made an unsealed choice.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0250par0247	Do you know Gazi Abi Hamza?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0251par0248	Mr. Mountain, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0252par0249	Do you know Gazi Abi? Look, there's one here, Gazi Abi.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0253par0250	Bekir means that we are against the motion on the matter of Bozdağ, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0251par0252	Thank you, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0254par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0255par0254	First Mr. Peace, then I, sir...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0251par0255	Dear friend, Mr. Sky, don't you have any? Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0255par0257	Yes, sir, I have a request.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0251par0258	Yeah, okay. Besides, there's Mr. Pekshen and Mr. Kayishoglu entering the system. I'd like to hear Mr. Pekşen first because, as you know before, he's in, we can't give him a word because he's not here. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0256par0264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, on top of Parliament, this is the slander or stain or truth, which is like the sword of Damocles, and I think it needs to be removed. I'd like to propose a law on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Who is it, or did any congressman from Parliament use it or not? We'll make the offer of the law. AK PARTY MPs, hodri square, do you want to know if there are MPs in parliament or not? Let's have a look at this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0257par0267	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0256par0268	I thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0257par0269	Congressmans, please don't let everyone else into the system because I'll make a promise. Now that I'm looking at it, everyone's taking turns hacking into the system, there's no such thing. Mr. Kayishoglu, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0258par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. When the preacher was speaking, we actually had to laugh. He said... I'm a concrete example of what you're doing. I was eliminated three times during your time as a judge. I wasn't asked about the law, as you were asked about it. I've been ridiculed for a speciality that I didn't prefer, which is God's will. It was said: "Where were you born? " I was born in Pertek. Is there a sea in Pertek? The interview called hahaha. It made fun of my birthplace. What in God's name are you talking about? As Mr. Free Private said yesterday, we will most likely have to fight corruption, poverty, bans, but we will do it in the best possible way. During your time -- I know very well -- born in Tunceli, one person of Alevi origin, one person, look, in ancient times...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0259par0276	I'll give it to you, I have a personal reference.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0260par0277	He admits he's even a reference to the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0261par0278	Okay. Dear fellow, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0262par0280	The speaker teased me, saying I couldn't use my mind, that I was insensitive. I'd like to take your word for bullying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0261par0281	Here, I promise you two minutes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll listen to the other friends later.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0263par0284	I mean, that's how you feel. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0264par0287	I know why Mr. Hamza Mountain gave a heated speech and explained that he had imam-hatred origins, because he was personally involved in the Turkish Olympics held by Fetullah Gulen, in June 2013, and supported by throwing the "eternal peace," universal peace, universal peace, peace, and peace.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0265par0289	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0264par0290	Now, to make him forget his past, the AKP says, "Sir, there is no staffing in the judiciary." What are these, Mr. Hamza Mountain? I know you can read and write. What are these? Can you read the names? Who are these people? Look, Uğur Akhun, AKP Mardin County Board member; Aydan Yıldırım Akkoç, AKP district board member, this is how the list goes. So, what's this? The AKP's attorney has congratulated him on his appointment as judge. People who say that there is no staffing in the court can go to Facebook and look at these photos. Since this morning, the exploitation of a headscarf seems to represent only the Hamza Mountain headscarf in this country. Here's how you treat the headscarf. You didn't see it yesterday, you were just gone, now I'm showing it again. Look, I can't even wear a lady's skirt because of you, and the police will drag me down, just like 17 years ago...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0266par0292	Are you defending the headscarfs now? We know your sincerity. Did you just think of that? Let's go, you announcers, let's go! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0264par0293	Here's the minister, and I'll show it to Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Here's the picture from yesterday: A mother cries, a mother cries, don't take my son away. Here are those who say there is no staffing in the court. The judges of AKP's staffing can't even look us in the eye as they arrest journalists while deciding. They have a bench where you come from behind, you're arrested, you're arrested. They say, "You're on your way." (CHP) Come and see the legal knowledge of your appointed judges who do business under instructions. They can't even write a decision because the decisions are already coming from above. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Süleyman Noble, I'd like you to make a statement regarding this photograph. Mr. President, all the mothers in this country are my mother. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, I think the Minister has an obligation to make a statement about this photograph. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0267par0299	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0268par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0267par0301	Mr. Mountain, if you want Mr. Gök and Mr. Kerestecioğlu to speak, they'll probably say something to your speech, and you can answer them all at once. Mr. Sky, come in. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, I'm going to listen to the Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0306	Mr. President, there have been considerable taunting of our group in the words used by the speaker on behalf of the EC PARTY Group. The Republican People's Party is involved in the work that politicalises the judiciary, the appointments made...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0267par0308	I don't hear anything, Mr. Sky. I really can't hear anything.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0267par0310	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0311	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke on behalf of the AK PARTY Group has stated that we have politicized the judiciary before the Republican People's Party and before that, that there has been no political appointment at these recent appointments, that we have not been able to understand the issue. So, we want a word about this because of the bullying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0267par0312	Here you go, Mr. Sky, two minutes...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0315	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are trying to draw attention to other areas when there is no topic for the EC PARTY to talk about. Mr. Hamza Mountain, you just stated that you're going to talk about our gene, you haven't said a word about our gene, so you haven't said a single word.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0270par0316	And you've never spoken, and most of my words are about the gene; your gene is two pages, it doesn't mean anything, so where do I hold it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0317	Now, what you're saying is that in this period, the custody focus has been lifted, the judiciary has been freed from politics. Is that so? Look, I have the names of 107 of my dear friends. I don't want to read the names, but I'll present to you which county, which county executives. Now, for the first time in the history of the Republic, of course, there may be political views of people -- MHPL, HDP, AK PARTI, CHP -- but for the first time in the history of the republic, the point that we object is this -- a party, a minister of justice, an AK PARTI (also past the law) -- the executives -- friends -- wait a minute, can we be that political?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0271par0319	Isn't there a CHP executive?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0272par0320	There's the president of the CHP County, the county.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0321	They've politicized the judgment. Look, what have I got on the list? Friends, member of Giresun's county board, is now in charge. AKP Zonguldak is the central district manager, AKP Rize is the governor of the province, Kurıkkale is the vice-president of the province, Tripoli is the mayor of the province -- currently executives are AKP Edirne MP candidate, AKP Giresun is a member of the county board, AKP Taşköpru is the head of the district. Which one should I tell you about, which one? You answer them, you answer them. Now, what kind of painting would that be, guys? Could it be? Right now, the person is the director of the AK PARTY, but he's a judge. What better partisan than that? That's the reason for our gene. You're the ones who don't understand, and they're like Hamzadağ.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0272par0323	You'll see, in a minute.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0324	This is important. This is an exemplary picture of what the judiciary has become in Turkey. This is the way the judgment is handed over to the AK PARTY, my friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We object to that, and we must stop this process, dear friends. Now, we've told you about the executives of the AK PARTY, but...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0273par0328	Mr. Sky, your time is up.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0269par0329	I know, sir. It's not time for the pictures yet. By the time we reveal all the pictures of you and Mr. Fetullah, you will become more ashamed and more ashamed.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0274par0332	Teacher?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0275par0333	Are you talking about the teacher? You're still telling that quack?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0276par0334	You're the one who called me Hoca. You're the one who kissed me. He's repeating your statement.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0275par0335	Did I say that? Then you're not listening. Free, listen, listen to what you're saying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0276par0336	He's repeating your statement, you're the one kissing his ass.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0275par0337	Free, you must not be able to hear.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0277par0338	We have yet to show you who poses in front of Fetullah Gulen, and who eats with them. We're not there yet. We haven't shown you guys who's got Fetullah Gulen, arm in arm, taking pictures together, eating together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0276par0339	There's no one here who's met with Fetullah Hodja. You were all there.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0277par0340	We're waiting for Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, and we'll do it after that. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0278par0343	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0279par0347	Mr. Hamza Mountain used to be the branch manager of the Izmir MaZLUMDER branch, but I really think loyalty is probably only known as a name.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0280par0348	Let him be loyal to us.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0279par0349	I would also like to remind him of his trustee appointed to MaZLUMDER today and perhaps the dismissal of Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, one of the most valued people in this country, his friends who were fired from work with the KHK, and this judgment. I'd also like to remind the Council that people who have been under arrest for 202 days. What judgment do you all speak of when you remove immunity and send our MPs to prisons? Celal Bey had a very good saying just now: the same Turkish song, the songwriters are changing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You tell the past well, but today you're not singing a new song, you're singing the same song, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0281par0354	Even worse.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0282par0355	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Mountain, I'll give you my word, but there are two MPs from two separate groups entering the system. Not from the Republican People's Party; one from the Justice and Development Party; one from the People's Democratic Party. I'll give you my word after I give these two MPs my word. Mr. Sancar, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0283par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. If only Hamza Mountain hadn't given this speech, someone else would have defended this system naked. Yeah, man, we got the power. To this day, we do exactly what the ruling authorities had done before. What is the difference between persecution then and persecution today? At the opening of the judicial year in 1985, the Supreme Court President says the guarantee of judicial independence is Canaan's Universe. At the prosecutor's institutional anniversary, the Chief Prosecutor is praising the system that lifts the separation of forces, giving tributes, favours. The Constitutional Court was the institution that celebrated the coupists after September 12th 1980, and today it is in the same biat culture. Forensic annual ceremonies have only been used for beer messages.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0282par0362	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0283par0363	On this day more wrong will be done than wrong, and injustice, and the injustices which you have considered to be done. Kerestecioğlu just told me, I wish you'd disagreed with them with a word. Or someone should come out. Yes, power is ours. It's our turn. We'll do what we want. Let him say it. Let him be so sincere.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0282par0364	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. Mr. Kavakcı, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0284par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. This headscarf thing just came up again. I'm really amazed. It's a real joy that our friends are taking over right now, but we know what happened on May 2nd, and then we know what happened. In fact, on May 2, 2017, when I was discussing the incident with Merve Karakçı on May 2, 1999, I was again forced to make a statement on the bench. So, please, don't defend us with the headscarf, it has no credibility.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0285par0370	Where is Nazlı Hanım, Nazlı Hanım? That day, Nazlı Hanım defended only Mrs. Merve.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0284par0371	I wouldn't even be able to get in if I was a lawyer for an interview that our congressman was talking about. In 2015, we were able to enter this Parliament and take an oath. It's shameful, it's shameful, it's sinful. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0286par0374	Thank you, Mr. Kavakci.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0287par0375	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0286par0376	I'll listen to Mr. Mountain, Mr. Dogan, and I'll give you my word. Mr. Mountain, without teasing?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0378	Don't make fun of me, Mr. President. Everyone's already picking on me.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0286par0379	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0383	Mr. President, if I don't have enough time, I'm gonna need an extension because everyone's been saying things about me. Look, what I said was very simple, I said, just as we have world vision here -- they didn't come from space, we studied in the same classes, we read at the same time -- there will be people with world views in the judiciary, and there will be people with world views. There are examples, I have dozens of them, but I'll give you two: Republican People's Party 2011, MP Gulşehir, the mayor of the district -- but I'm not going to do it like you -- he and his brother are judges and prosecutors right now. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. It could be from any party, any thought, any privacy.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0289par0385	Eight hundred to two.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0290par0386	There are dozens, there are two examples.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0387	Look, as the candidate for law enforcement and mayor of the AK PARTI period...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0289par0388	Eight hundred to two.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0389	There's a lot of them, I just gave them to you right now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0289par0390	His father-in-law is from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0391	I don't give names, I don't give names, and those judges are bad for prosecutors. The moment their names are mentioned on that stand, what they're up against in that courthouse... and for the names you mentioned, and for the names you've written there, I'm telling you that when we speak here, your name is spoken in the court. I don't see it as appropriate, because I know what they're going through, and I don't see it as appropriate. I wish you hadn't done that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, he didn't talk about his gene. Dear friends, the question is, the gene text is over there, a page and a half. If I answer every word of this page and a half, what am I gonna say for 20 minutes? Your kid doesn't have a question. There's one thing we've always said: unfortunately, you've made the gene into a lick. You've got a group that can't even work on that gene, and it's not even important to put that gene on the page. First, you question your group, question the employees of your group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, I have a history of managing MaZLUMDER, and our struggle with HAZLUMDER and human rights was much different. (CHP rows) But unfortunately, it has something to do with MAZLUMDER...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0291par0397	Complete, please, Mr. Mountain. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0288par0399	Now, as far as I'm concerned about human rights or human rights, I have my own...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0292par0400	You have exported, and you have changed hands in the land of MaZLUMDER.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0401	Mr. President... WHAT'S THE MATTER NOW, TELL ME?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0292par0403	You've done a coup!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0404	What happened?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0294par0405	Sezgin is where he's supposed to be, where he's supposed to be, because of people like you!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0406	WHAT'S THE MATTER, SAY IT, SAY IT? WHERE IS HE? Where is he? Where is he?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0294par0407	Unfortunately, you've made human rights into the backyard of your own ideological mentality, so that's what happened.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0408	WHERE'S THE MUSCLE, MUSCLE?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0294par0409	I wish you hadn't done that. I wish you hadn't made your own ideology the backyard, the people's rights.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0410	WHERE IS HE NOW? WHERE IS HE?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0294par0411	Hours and hours on the subject... that's not what I'm going to tell you here in two minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0295par0413	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0293par0414	YOU can't stand it yet!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0294par0415	I have the ability to explain both human rights activities and human rights decisions, and all of them, and I will not talk about them in two minutes. In fact, we're all behind what we're saying here, and we're saying that after July 15th, there's an extraordinary process, there's an extraordinary period, we've had an extraordinary night, and hopefully, as you say, we didn't come to power and do what the previous power-seekers did, we won't do it, and we won't do it anymore. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0296par0419	Thank you, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0297par0420	You're doing worse, worse!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0298par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0296par0422	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0298par0423	Sir, he told me something wrong, so I'd like two minutes of your time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0296par0425	Dear God, don't tease me.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0299par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0296par0427	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0299par0428	In his speech, Mr. Hamza Mountain, both the Republican People's Party Group and its workers -- which we never do here, we shouldn't -- you have a group of useless employees who say, We write political texts ourselves, our group of employees provide technical support.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0300par0429	Then you've written so badly, I don't think it suits you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0299par0430	But it's not appropriate for any congressman to deal with a bureaucrat, to deal with a worker.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0301par0432	Don't forget it's on the books.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0299par0433	It's really incredible, it's embarrassing. Well, it's not worth answering, but since the text criticises itself and insults the text that our group put out, we'd like to use our right to answer.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0302par0434	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0435	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0302par0436	Mr. President has voiced a review of the text. If he can't do this review, what will our orator say on the stand? If we make a taunt out of every word we're told, we'll talk about this motion for the geneorization by morning. That doesn't make sense, I refuse.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0437	Mr. Bostanci, I know where to cut, don't worry. I'll make two promises, Mr. Dogan and Mr. Noble.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0302par0439	Our speaker has been critical of the text, he has never had an assessment of individuals.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0441	Wait a second, guys, wait a second. I will give my word to Mr. Celal Doğan, and to Mr. Süleyman Nobleman, and to the Minister, and after that I will take a break. Mr. Dogan, come in...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0304par0444	Sir, about our group...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0445	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0304par0446	Mr. President, what if there's been such an open taunt... What's a useless group, sir?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0305par0447	Mr. President, tell me this...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0448	Mr. Godkulu, I'll promise you your place later, but after you take a break.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0305par0449	No, sir, I need it now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0450	I'll give it to you in a moment, Mr. Godkulu. Mr. Dogan, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0452	Mr. President, I beg you, is that possible?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0453	Mr. Special, please... we're listening to Mr. Doğan, please...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0454	How does it go anywhere else, sir, when a group of vice presidents is standing, and I can't tell you what's going on, because another group of vice presidents stepped in?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0455	Mr. Special, I listened to you, and I answered you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0456	Mr. President, what did you answer? Mehmet Naci Bostancı himself made an assessment.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0457	No, I used my own discretion.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0458	No, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0459	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0460	He used extremely humiliating, demeaning statements to our group, our employees, so that you wouldn't have to answer...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0461	Well, Mr. Special, wait a second then, let's hear Mr. Doğan, then let's listen to Mr. Noble, and then I'll give you my word for a minute. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0306par0463	All right, all right.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0307par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0465	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0307par0466	I have to say something, Mr. President, but I'm asking you, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0467	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0307par0468	This is the Assembly General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0469	Of course, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0307par0470	He said, "Because of you - meaning me - that MaZLUMDER has been shut down."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0308par0471	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0472	And I said to you, "I will promise you your place, Mr. Godkulu."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0307par0473	Sir, I mean, come on, don't tease me! That's why I'm gonna talk.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0303par0474	Well, I promise not to tease you, Mr. Godkulu, please... Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0309par0478	Mr. President, what I'm about to say has nothing to do with polemics. We've heard a lot of arguments, and I think we should take a break. I'd like to remind you of two things. Mr. Secretary will be on the stand shortly. One is that the secret organization needs to be set a criminal history. For all of us, the organization, the armed organization, the gang; amenna Saddakna. But, as you know in our legislation, there's no way of calling any organization a secret organization that hasn't passed the derkat and hasn't been fixed by a court order. Therefore, in order for our country not to be in a difficult situation on international platforms, there must be a judicial decision, especially when they demand extradition on ا, and it must be passed by the Council of Ministers. Second: There is no chance for justified verdicts to be written without a date of crime in terms of time of trial and time of punishment. I'd like to remind Mr. Secretary, the speaker of this matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0310par0482	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Mr. Noble, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0485	Thank you very much. Istanbul MP Barış Yid friend just showed me a photo by saying my name. It is important to say that the general duty of the police, the gendarmes and our rangers is to establish public order as well as to ensure the peace and security of all of us. The main duty of politics is not to be an instrument of terrorism; I say this as a Minister of the Interior. For a few days -- and that's why -- we've all been following events that have happened in both places on Yüksel Street and elsewhere. We're talking about two people who have been thrown out of their own workplaces, as part of a terrorist organization, along with a decree under the law.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0312par0488	He was thrown out of the prison and arrested from the DHPK-C.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0489	These two are members of the DHKP-C.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0312par0490	No, he's been kicked out of the hospital.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0491	As part of the DHKP-C organization starting in 2012...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0313par0494	Is that why you took it, Mr. Secretary? Is that why you suspended him?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0314par0495	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0314par0497	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0498	These two people have been taken into custody several times since 2012 for being members of the DHKP-C organization.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0315par0500	Why didn't you get it in 2012?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0501	Let me be very clear: we're all MPs and we're all responsible. The last time we heard a father's cry was on the DHKP-C operation in Istanbul. We heard the cry of a father who couldn't save his daughter from the organization, who was subjected to the torture of the organization. It's our duty, all of us, that these organizations don't use us and they don't manipulate us.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0316par0502	You've declared everyone a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0503	Again, as a Home Secretary, I say: We see and know how the PKK uses HDP.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0317par0505	Oh, man! Oh, man! Who's using you?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0506	I'm telling the Republican People's Party, don't walk the same way, and we're all watching and seeing how the DHKP-C is pressuring lawmakers on social media, and how they're being pressured by their organization members. It's extremely...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0318par0509	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0319par0510	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0511	What you need to do here is wait for this judgment to come up. (CHP and HDP rows of noise) Then, along with the ordinance of the law, there is now a new board of those who have been terminated. They'll appeal to this board, and this board will present the necessary assessment. We don't want to go through all this trouble again and...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0320par0512	Mr. Secretary, you're declaring yourself guilty without a verdict.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0513	...about this, yes, making unjust accusations to our security forces, and that's a very wrong thing to do lately.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0320par0514	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0311par0515	I'd like to express this as an answer to our friend's assessment of this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0321par0517	You have to face it on your own. You have no right to torment this community without confronting it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0322par0518	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0323par0519	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0322par0520	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you my word later. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0524	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed lawmakers about the MaZLUMDER, so there are many violations. I've just tried to express it here, but I have a wound inside me, dear friends, and you must have a wound inside you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0325par0525	You're in violation of the Civil Code, violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0526	Dear Hamza Mountain, you say you're the founder of MaZLUMDER, where is he now?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0326par0527	I wasn't old enough then.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0528	Where?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0326par0529	I became the manager, not the founder.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0530	Where is Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, who was the head of the MaZLUMDER, where is he?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0326par0531	I wish he'd done it right.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0532	Tell me, will you answer me on this stand?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0327par0533	Where is Ayhan Bilgen, Ayhan Bilgen?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0534	Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, the head of MaZLUMDER, the doctor, where is he now? You started this organization together. I worked together when I was president of the Diyarbakır Bar Association. Where's MaZLUMDER? Faruk Üssal, Adıyaman MP of the Justice and Development Party, the founder and leader of the MaZLUMDER, was the last president.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0328par0535	If your backyard hadn't done it, he'd have done it. It's become your backyard.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0324par0536	Can you tell me where he is? Wasn't he your friend, didn't he sit around, where are they now? Look, don't be disturbed by human rights violations. Let's let this association identify the infringements. HOW you seized, how you pushed, and how you disabled it now, instead of coming here and bragging about its foundership. I'm telling you the name, Omer Faruk Gergerlioglu, was discharged under a decree of law. Where are you? Isn't he a friend of yours? Can you tell me where he is, your Faruk Üssal MP? They did this, too. What for? They were defending the rights of the oppressed. Because you were oppressed, and now you're cruel, and here's the difference, and now you're cruel. That's the point. (CHP clapping in rows) I've been there for MaZLUMDER all the way to the end. Yilmaz Ensaroğlu served as Prime Minister and witness; he has made the presidency; he is a witness; I have supported him to the end, to the end, everywhere, and always. I defended the headscarf in Diyarbakir, more than you. On April 27th, at 9 a.m., I was at the courthouse with the president of MaZLUMDER, with the head of IH. Now ye have been wrong-doers, and ye have been wrong-doers.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0329par0539	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0330par0541	He made an obvious taunt, I don't think there's any need to explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0329par0542	Yes, let's put you on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0331par0544	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0329par0545	Mr. Mountain, do you want one too? Okay. We'll go on like this, I'm fine with it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0331par0546	You started it first, I wish it hadn't.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0329par0547	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0332par0549	We've seen two young people on hunger strike for seventy-five days, put us in prison, and now, while we're actually discussing justice, while we're discussing justice, I'm transferring Mr. Home Secretary to the Minister of Justice. I mean, he's a lawyer, he knows what it's like to be innocent.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0333par0550	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0332par0551	He knows they can't be called without a conviction about people, but it's the Home Secretary's way. In Turkey, it's not just about constantly fueling anger and hatred and actually blaming our party, it's about punishing the people of this country. This country really wants peace now, friends, and peace now. We say to you, "You've told us in the past, it's been done." We also opposed what was done to you in the past. But come on, you're doing worse than that. Indeed, there is no justice, no place for people to appeal, no mechanisms. You're setting up a commission for seven people for hundreds of thousands of people? These people were on hunger strike for this. How well he judged, Minister of the Interior, how well he judged! Come on, he's made up his mind. What kind of justice is that? Who will defend them? Who else but us will defend it? Even the people write to us. They say: "There are indeed people who are lost, and there are people who are lost. " We didn't rise up and walk the same way in our lives, and you walked in them. (Applause from HDP and CHP) They're writing to us. We're against any violation of rights, so do those people... And are these people really missing? What is it? We're asking you why you're cutting up your disability pensions. Who are we gonna ask, guys? You're the authority.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0334par0554	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0335par0556	And Mr. Special has something to say about me.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0334par0557	Mr. Special, what is your request?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0336par0558	My earlier request remains valid. Although you chose to use a different scales of justice today...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0334par0559	No, I don't do that at all, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0336par0561	Because of the bullying against our group...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0334par0562	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0336par0563	...they're going to use our say-so, Mr. Veli Agha.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0334par0564	Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Then I promise Mr. Mountain to take a break.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0337par0567	If Mr. Mountain gives me a hard time, I'll use my say in advance, I'll tell you in advance, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0338par0569	Mr. President, Congressman, thank you all very much. Now, Mr. Secretary just said that those two people were terrorists. If these two people have been terrorists since 2012, I'd like to ask the Home Secretary why they're out on the street. Dear friends, do you know when these people became terrorists, when they became terrorists? He became a terrorist when he went out on the street and told the world what AKP was really about. He messed you up, took down your mask. It's amazing what you've said in the past. Look, you're the ones who called Ilker Basbug a terrorist, you're the ones who called Hanefi Avcıya a terrorist, you're the ones who called Mehmet Haberala, Mustafa Balbaya, Tuncay Özkana, and when they left, you're the ones who tricked us, you're the ones who called us a conspiracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, these people act because they're being robbed of their bread. What are they saying? When were they arrested, Mr. Secretary? They started a hunger strike, and everyone in the world saw Turkey's true face, not Turkey's, but the true nature of AKP's fascism, and you arrested it that day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, you said from time to time that before April 16th, you accused us, the opposition, the spirit of April 16th of co-operation with terrorism, accusing us of co-operating with it. I'm telling you, once again, there's this one in the pop shop, there's the artillery, there's the groceries, there's the dumpster, there's that one in the pie shop. Where isn't he?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0339par0576	There's no CHP!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0340par0577	Not in the AKP!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0338par0578	Where isn't he? The AKP group, the MPs. We laugh about it, we laugh about it. Let's go! Let's go! Who buttoned you up in front of Fetullah? Who's got your head tied? (CHEERING) Who's bowing to you? Who was sitting at his table? Let's go!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0339par0580	Look at your own party.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0338par0581	If you have the heart, instead of firing your poor children, let's investigate the challenge of who sat with him in politics, who held hands with him, who parseled with him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0341par0583	Then what were you doing at STV?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0342par0584	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Mountain, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0343par0586	Mr. President, most of the speakers teased me by mentioning my name as well.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0344par0587	I'll boil it, you'll say what you've been told, that's what you're promised for bullying.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0343par0588	It's just that I've been talking about...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0344par0589	So what? So what?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0345par0590	What did he say, what was the reason?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0346par0591	Mr. Mountain, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0345par0593	It's not like he's got a good reason.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0347par0595	Dear friends, I'm not going to take this polymath too long, but I'd like to point out that the previous speaker, based on the promise that I normally made about the party group, came here and responded to the statements our Home Secretary had given. And as for the matter of the fall, dear friends, I am not the founder of MASLUMDER, and I am not old enough. That's wrong information. And while we were just talking, there was no bragging or pride about being the founder and director of the MaZLUMDER, which was expressed by the previous orator. There has never been such a boast, just because of the matter of MASLUMDER -- the latter -- the deputy -- because the subject of MEZLUMDER came up on the agenda, it became a point to respond to him. Yeah, but you know what's really good about us? Unfortunately, in recent years, in recent years, it's been a deep concern for us that many of our friends here have become the rear-garden of an organization, a negative ukde, that many of those who can't provide financial support have been the legal guardians. And I've been promised to express that here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0348par0598	So you took it out and turned it into your backyard?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0347par0599	I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0348par0601	Did you get rid of it and turn it into your backyard?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit04spe0349par0602	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0349par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/15) We will resume the talks of the primary Gensorial Introduction. The government is in place. Mr. Godkulu, for the record, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0350par0009	Sir, regarding MaZLUMDER, I have to say that it was founded on the basis of defending them and defending other human rights at a time when the rights of our headscarfed citizens, our persecuted citizens, were not fully defended. And since the day it was founded, I've supported it as a human rights advocate, and it's become common, and it's become a human rights organization that's been referred to in the world. When the government began to publish reports on basic human rights violations made by this government in the east and southeast and all over Turkey, it became the government's target and the AZLUMDER was seized. Faruk Üssal, Yilmaz Ensaroğlu, Ömer Faruk Gergerlioglu, MazLUMDER. They're very respected people, and they're all close to the next people, and they're not there right now. So, I'm just saying this for the record. And the government, as a result, has made an organization that has been referred to the world, which is advocating the rights of the oppressed, unfortunately, dysfunctional and destroyed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0349par0011	Mr. Godkulu, thank you, your words are on the record. Now, Mr. Ramazan Can, I promise to give you a statement from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0351par0016	Yes, Mr. President, thank you. When I got the speech report, I knew I was out of line. Of course, Mr Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu is a respectable man, a respected man, a candidate. I'm sorry if I've made a statement against him. And when I actually examined the report, I saw that I hurt her. I'm expressing my sorrows. That's how I describe my words.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0349par0018	Well, thank you, Mr. Can. Members of parliament, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will speak on behalf of the government now. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0026	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce the esteemed MPs to the Republican People's Party's Party's leadership's motion to ask for me. I hereby salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers, as Minister of Justice, as we are hearing today, I would be happier, if we could turn the state of law in Turkey into an opportunity to debate justice, justice, and judgment, rather than to argue about a perception. But unfortunately, an opportunity like this has been sacrificed to a perception, so I'd like to express my regrets from here first. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's a lot of flaws in this motion for the geneorization, there's mistakes, there's confusion, there's confusion.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0353par0030	Is there anything true about it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0031	For one thing, we need to put one thing in the right place, not confuse independence of judges, independence of the judiciary and other issues. It's a tremendous injustice to call those who haven't ruled, judges, prosecutors, and those who have taken the test as judges, then to discuss their independence after that, a huge mistake, not to do so. Article 138 of the Constitution clearly regulates the independence of the courts
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0354par0032	Did you or did you not? Which court did you leave?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0033	The authorities are independent in their duties; they judge according to their conscience, in accordance with the Constitution, law and law. To what does independence come? He brings them to the judges, the judges are independent, and they make their decisions according to the Constitution, law and law, with their conscience." he says. Well, what else does it say? No body, authority, authority or person can give orders or instructions to courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; it cannot send advice and advice to judges; it forbids them to be closed to foreign intervention, to be ordered, instructed, advised, and spoken to by others from outside. This is also an important shield for independence, an important umbrella. There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly on a current case. This is another matter that connects the Assembly, but unfortunately, in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, we witness a lot of talks that falsely accuse judges, prosecutors, and insult them, both in this box and on other platforms. That's what an intervention in judicial independence is all about. Everybody knows who does that the most. We make the judgmental judges who make their own way, the honest judge, the independent judge, the judge, who makes the decisions in a way that he does not desire. We make a judge who is accused, and then we stand up and talk. I say we all have to respect judges, prosecutors, judges. We need to separate them. Now, what was brought up in the motion for a gene? Sir, so many judges, prosecutors have been taken. Now, one of our fellow MPs has made a statement, and on top of that statement, this gene came to your attention. Now, it says that 900 judges have taken 800 of them from the AK PARTY -- although you're saying something else -- but they're out.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0355par0036	Mr. Bekir, look at the reason for the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0037	Look, as Minister of Justice, I'm being very clear here, why don't you just count 800 judges here? If there are 800 AK PARTY judges, one who is honest and honest will distribute them and show them to the nation here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0356par0038	Here, Mr. Secretary, I brought them all for you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0039	Look, I'm saying something now: I want 800, 800 judges, I want the name of the prosecutor; look, I'm saying it in Parliament, you give these names, I'm resigning from this time forward.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0356par0040	Here, it's all here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0041	If you're an honest, honest person, do you resign? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) 800 names, 800; 3 names, 5 of them are AK PARTI. It is not appropriate for an honest politician to perform a perception operation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0042	Don't demagogue. There's 107 people here, 107 people.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0043	If you're honest, you'll bring it. You're not going to name two or three names here, you're going to put 800 names here, 800.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0044	Aren't 100 enough for you?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0045	You're lying, you're slandering. It's not for honest and decent people.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0047	You're the one who lied! There's 100 of them.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0048	Two: they're not judges, they're candidates for judges and prosecutors. You present him as a judge. In order to become a judge and prosecutor, our Constitution and laws have established some rules.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0049	If you're honest, tell me you canceled the exam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0050	Listen, listen, don't jump!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0051	Tell me you're canceling the exam!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0358par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0053	Listen! Listen! What does the Constitution 70 say?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0054	Are you canceling the exam?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0359par0055	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0056	"Every Turk has the right to enter public services." he says. No political views, no religious beliefs, no search for height, no search for weight, no search for parties, no search for anything, he says.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0057	Yeah. You didn't call or you didn't call?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0058	The Constitution is equal to everyone in front of the law. You will obey the principle of equality.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0059	The head of the district is the judge." Does it say?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0360par0060	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0061	You will not look at people's political views, their faith, their gender." he says.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0062	You're going to see if he's from the AKP, right, that he's from the AKP?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0063	That's what we're doing. You blame us, why don't you look?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0064	You're going to see if he's from the AKP, aren't you?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0361par0065	Forty seconds...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0066	We're looking at the driver's license, not looking at what political opinion he's from.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0067	Yeah?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0068	We're looking for a driver's license.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0362par0069	Mr. Secretary, you're picking a judge in 40 seconds, 40 seconds.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0070	Swear, Minister, swear!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0071	Look, the other thing is, it's important. Look, the Higher Education Act: Students can make politics.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0072	Judges can't, brother, judges can't!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0073	They're not judges, they're judges.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0074	Judges can't! Then cancel the test!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0075	Not a judge...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0076	Cancel the test!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0077	Don't lie! He's a candidate for a judge's attorney.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0363par0078	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0079	You're the liar, you liar!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0080	You look people in the eye and you lie.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0081	You're the liar! Well, cancel it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0082	He's not a judge, he's a judge.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0364par0083	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0084	Mr. President, you're lying to us.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0085	See, he says: "Those who study at the Higher Education Institutions do politics."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0086	You're lying. He says, he's lying, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0352par0087	You're lying!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0365par0088	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0357par0089	What kind of Minister of Justice is that?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0365par0090	Mr. Sky, let's hear it, and then you can get up and talk, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0091	It is a political institution, says the Institute of Higher Education. Two: Lawyers make politics, says the Law. Three: The Officials' Law is very clear. Read it. Where do you get an officer, this is what's on the ad? What party do you belong to, not? Bring a document saying that you are not a member of any party. Is there a rule in the law? No.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0367par0094	You're asking for references, Mr. Secretary, references.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0095	The law, which regulates the purchase of a judge prosecutor, also states which party you belong to...... Is there? Get me a record of him not being a member. No. Our laws say they're not wanted in application. When will he be called? He's wanted in office, not in the process of running.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0097	Tell me, are you canceling the exam?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0098	When does one rule, Mr. Sky?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0099	Mr. Bekir, are you canceling the exam? See, that's where you came from?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0100	When's the judge?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0101	Look, because you admit it, you admit it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0102	He'll take the exam first, in writing...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0103	You're confessing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0104	...then he'll be in the oral, then he'll be interned for two years.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0105	You're confessing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0106	Then he'll take another test after the internship, and then he'll be interviewed, and if the HSK accepts him, then he'll be in charge.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0107	Well, cancel that test.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0366par0108	It's the law and it's the law, but what you're doing, you're taking it to a whole other level.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0109	Cancel that test, cancel it! Say you'll cancel. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0369par0110	Congressmans, Mr. Gök, I beg you very much, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0111	Mr. President, he's talking about something else, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0369par0112	Let him finish, and then you'll answer, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0113	Another thing, look, I've got a list here, and there are people in every party who've done politics in the past in the final exam, why don't you explain them?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0114	You explain them.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0115	They have passive membership.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0116	You explain them.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0117	I mean, he's not a member right now, but he's been a member in the past, and so are they.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0118	You explain them. I'm announcing your AK PARTY executives right now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0119	I don't explain because we didn't look at people's political views.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0120	Then explain it to me. I don't have any!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0121	We looked at liakate, liakate.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0122	I don't have one. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0123	Don't be afraid of politics. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) What kind of a thing is that? We're the most damaged party from the politicalisation of the judiciary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0124	Mr. Secretary, show a CHP member here, show CHP administrator.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0125	He sued our party for political judgment, closure; he framed our ministers, our government, political justice. We paid the ultimate price, we did. That's why we're trying to keep the judiciary out of politics.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0126	Now you make the whole nation pay, you make the whole nation pay.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0127	We changed the law, we blocked the way for politicians to return to the profession of judges and prosecutors, so that those involved in politics wouldn't come here, and we took steps.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0128	What's this list, Mr. Bekir? What's this list? They're all your managers, they're all your managers.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0371par0129	Congressmans, dear friends, let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0130	Look, the CHP mentality, as CHP...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0131	You name a CHP executive who won the exam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0371par0132	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0133	Now, honorable lawmakers, I'm showing you a painting. You see him, read this too. Here's what it says: Mr. Seyfi Oktay was taken to around 2,000 judges at the time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0134	Let them go, let them go! You talk to me about today, you talk about today!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0135	Let him go, not let him go, let him go, not this truth, this truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0136	Talk about today, talk about today!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0137	It's not a perception operation, it's the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0372par0138	That prosecutor, you work with judges.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0139	Then why didn't you give me the gene?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0140	During my time, about a thousand judges were taken.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0368par0141	And that's when you gave him the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0370par0142	3.000 judges have been taken. They're not gonna hire this organization, but who are they gonna hire? Are they going to give it to the MPP? After that, look...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0373par0143	Mr. Secretary, how does your chief of staff get a judge?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0374par0144	Mr. President, please, they don't want to hear the truth. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0375par0145	Dear friend, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0376par0146	Don't jump!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0377par0147	Is there a party manager, then?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0376par0148	The more you hear it, the more you jump. Why are you jumping? These are real.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0377par0149	Is there a party manager in them? Is there a manager in them? Name one person, give me an example.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0378par0150	Dear friends, please listen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0379par0151	Mr. President, please apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0380par0152	These are the facts, your minister's explanation. Look, after that...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0381par0153	I give you hundreds of examples, you can't give an example. Name it, give me an example!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0382par0154	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0380par0155	I've got your samples. I'll give them to you now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0383par0156	Mr. President, it's disrupting the character's body.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0382par0157	Dear Elitaş, I'm warning you, but...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0380par0158	Mr. President, sir, if you add to my driving.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0382par0159	Mr. Secretary, a moment of your time. Mr. Secretary, I'll add to your time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0384par0160	Then sue me.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0161	Mr. President, what's happening to Elitas? Mr. Secretary speaking for the government, what's happening to Elitas? (CHEERING) Doesn't he have anything to say?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0384par0162	I'm the MP here, I'm the Deputy Director of the Group, and you can't stop the speaker there. Sit down, listen! Listen to him!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0163	You can't defend it, can you?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0384par0164	He defends like a lion.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0165	Sit down! Let's get down to brass tacks. Give me an example.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0386par0166	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0387par0167	You know your place!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0168	Give me a name.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0386par0169	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0387par0170	Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0171	Give me a name.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0386par0172	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0387par0173	Mr. President, if you'd like...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0174	We're giving you names.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0387par0175	I'm reading again now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0385par0176	You don't say one name.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0388par0177	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0178	Mr. Bekir, Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0390par0179	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0180	If you'll excuse me for a moment, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0391par0181	First, invite Bozdağ to use clean language, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0390par0182	You're slandering me.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0183	Mr. Tanal, just a moment... Dear friends, look, the Minister is speaking, there's an MP on the stand, there's a minister. But we really don't understand what you're saying. Let's not talk mutually. Mr. Secretary, after you've finished your speech, Mr. Gök, if you have any objections, if you have any criticism, you will stand up and answer.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0392par0185	He can't call us liars, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0186	Okay, you can get up and answer, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0393par0187	You say, "I'm not a liar."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0188	Mr. Sky, I'll give you my word later.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0394par0189	Invite him to use a clean language, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0190	Okay, fine. I invite all lawmakers to use a clean language, everyone. Please, let's be respectful of each other, and let's listen to the preacher. It doesn't really make any sense.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0395par0191	Let him tell you how he delivered the judgment, Your Honor.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0192	He'll decide what to say on the stand, please, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0396par0193	Tell me about Mr. Secretary. Tell me about him. Tell me what you said.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0194	Mr. Secretary, go ahead. I'll add one minute to your time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0196	Mr. President, I believe in your justice. I'm sure you'll appreciate the time.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0389par0197	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0198	In the time of Seyfi Oktay, about 2,000 judges were taken. About a thousand judges were taken during my time. 3,000 judges have been taken. To whom will they give no staff to this organization, but to whom will they give it to? There is a continuation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0398par0199	Forget about them, they're in the past. Well, then you'd have given me the gene, brother, if that's the case, you'd have given me the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0200	Look, the smartest thing to do... look, how it shows the mindset of staffing... you'll be organized, you'll be staffed, and they'll come one day and open your way. Now at least we're being fair to inform the organization of the tests, inform the organization, allow the organization to take the test. Are we doing this wrong? Mehmet Moğultay. He's sending it to the party organizations, he's reporting it, and he's responding to criticism.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0398par0201	Then why didn't you give me the gene? We gave you the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0399par0202	Mr. Gök wasn't a congressman then. There was no AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0203	Now I'm... he's going to become a member, he's going to open the way. Now, we've all seen what these casts have done when the day comes. Look, I'll tell you something else. There was no written exam to pass from lawyer to judge and prosecutor, only verbally.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0400par0205	Leave it, it's in the past. You're talking nonsense. Come on over for a bit.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0206	Look who was taken at the time. I'm not going to name people because there's private information here. If you look at the official papers, they're just called in verbally, and they're all here. There are other names. If you take the official newspaper, you'll see all of those names there.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0400par0207	What test is that? Which is it, the judge's exam or the jailer's exam? Mr. Bekir, what exam is that? Are you talking about the guardian exam?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0208	But I don't want to name these people by disrespecting them like you did.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0400par0209	You're talking about the jailer's exam, the guard's office. You're talking wrong.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0401par0210	Mr. Sky, there is no such procedure. You want words, you talk.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0211	The Chief of Staff of the Minister of Justice, the son of the Chief of State, has taken the test, has succeeded, won't he? They succeeded.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0402par0212	Mr. Secretary, explain your scores. How did they get elected in 40 seconds?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0213	Now, sir, he's going in. Is that possible? Liyakat is a job by looking at it. There's something else...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0402par0215	You've removed the dam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0216	The other thing is, we didn't take the exams. In the speech held here, the examination was lifted. There is no such thing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0402par0217	You've removed the dam, Mr. Secretary. You've lifted the 70-point dam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0218	We didn't take exams, we brought new exams, new exams. We took an exam at the end of the internship.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0402par0219	Mr. Secretary, you've lifted 70 points at the dam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0220	Why did we put it there? We've taken measures to ensure that Wasn't political structures infiltrated the Turkish judiciary and other terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0403par0221	Why did you remove the writing?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0222	You bring me here to ask why we've taken the measure against the terrorist organizations. You're giving me the gene. Did he give you this question? Who's giving it to you?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0403par0224	Why did you take away 70 points? Why did you lift this dam in writing, the dam?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0225	That's not gonna happen. Look, I'm going to tell you the numbers: the judge, the prosecutor's exam, the forensics, the number of candidates that need to be called in, and when you look at them, there are a lot of different numbers. Let's say we get a thousand people, we get a very low number, we don't even get enough numbers, and what happens there? A structure, if there's a structure planned, uses it to infiltrate the judiciary. You don't have a choice. So, we took a precaution to prevent them from infiltrating the judiciary, and that's why we removed the border in this KHK. I want you to know that in particular.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0403par0226	Why are you lifting it? Why are you picking it up with a warrant?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0227	It's not for recruitment. To prevent recruitment.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0403par0228	Why do you stand judgment? Let's discuss it with Congress. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0229	Look, the administrative court score was 79-80, with a base score of 67 in the judicial court.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0404par0230	Mr. President, would you please take a look at Article 65 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0231	That's why what we do is the right thing to do. We've taken an important step. We did the right thing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0405par0232	Mr. President, what's happening to Elias when the government is talking?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0404par0233	But that's what the preacher does when he talks, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0234	And from here, I'd like to say that the speakers who speak here...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0405par0235	Is Elitaş running it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0404par0236	I want to hear it. I want to hear it, orator.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0237	...the AK PARTY governments accused the AK PARTY of being an AK-PARTI.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0405par0238	Yeah... sure...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0239	Now, let's get down here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0405par0240	Come here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0241	This is where the real fucker calls it. We need to get over here.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0405par0242	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0243	That's right. Now I'll tell you and you'll listen. No jumping.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0406par0245	What's a hop?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0246	Now, the history of the Republic has the 65th government today. I now ask all the delegations here: What republic government has given a similar challenge to our President, our Prime Minister, the AK PARTY governments, the terrorist organization? Give me an example, one! There's not one. But what did you do? Look what's been done. Religious, religious, conservative people have been accused of being aggressive, and the road has been opened to the believers. But we are the government, the first to actually fight with the government in Turkey, the first to fight.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0407par0249	Get past them, get past them...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0250	After the real identity of ▪ has been revealed, the position of the people against him is evident. Now, here comes the garbage dumps, the dumpsters, the dumpsters, and they talk about it like it's something.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0407par0251	You raised them, raised them...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0252	The real identity of ▪ has been revealed. We've brought the arrangement for the classrooms. Who stood like mountains in front of this? You stopped.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0407par0253	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0254	Who took him to the Supreme Court? You did.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0407par0256	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0257	You're the lawyer for him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0408par0258	Boo, boo!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0397par0259	Well, what else? We've brought the HSYK Law. Who resisted this law in parliament to bring down the structure of the HSYK, to bring down the structure of the judiciary, to remove the Academy of Justice from this organization? You resisted.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0409par0260	Who gave you the public land? Who went after public lands?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0410par0261	Who took them to the referendum in 2010?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0411par0262	What did they want, and what didn't they want? Who said?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0412par0263	Who took him to the Supreme Court? You did. It was December 17-25, and there were some things that happened, Mr. President had the group listen to the songs, so that there would be no crime in the group, because you were in violation of the secrecy of the investigation; you were acting as the general president.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0413par0264	Was it a lie?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0414par0265	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0412par0266	It's not a lie, it's true. You did it in front of everyone. You did it after the terrorist organization came out of all its dimensions. Now, it's not over yet... [[A round of applause from the AK PARTY lines, knocking on rows of CHP rows, and the sounds of resignations.]] You'll resign, you'll resign.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0415par0269	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0412par0270	Look, there's a congressman here, and you're a congressman. What did he say? The People's Party of the Republic has made an alliance. With who? I'll go with you. You made an alliance. We walked together on March 30th. He says, "You did it after their terrorist organization appeared like a day." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, look, there's another thing, Zaman... when the terrorist organization's broadcasts are confiscated, when they're fighting against the organization... in front of all the law enforcement forces...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0415par0274	Mr. Bozdağ, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0416par0275	The Justice Minister of Injustice.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0417par0276	He's a child.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0277	...who was standing there? See if you recognize anyone in this photo.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0278	You don't believe what you're saying, Mr. Secretary. You're not telling the truth. No, you're not telling the truth. We know each other, tell the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0279	After the terrorist organization showed up. Now, who is the spokesman for the alleged controlled coup?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0280	You're the one who created it. You gave me a parcel.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0281	You're doing it, your president is doing it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're going to bring it out. Take it out and let's all see it together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0282	Tell the truth, the truth, Ramadan is coming, sin, sin. Don't lie, tell the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0283	I'm here to make it clear that the most effective, most decisive struggle with the terrorist organization in the Republic period was by the AK PARTI governments.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0284	When?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0285	The state has fought against all its dimensions.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0286	Who created it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0287	The extraordinary state, the suspension and all the work done to rid our government and our nation of the threat, the danger of this organization. If you accuse the authority that fights the terrorist organization and is responsible for its trust in the matter of the nation by being a member of the nation, then you will put the biggest fat on the family's bread.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0420par0288	Fight it right! Fight it right!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0419par0289	You just found out this is a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0290	And look, after the status of the terrorist organization has been established, the Republican People's Party is the spokesman on every platform of this organization.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0421par0292	Boo you! Boo you!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0422par0293	Boo you! Boo!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0294	If you guys go through those books like that, you're gonna be able to get this organization...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0421par0295	Oh, for crying out loud! What a shame! That's a shame! What a shame! Shame on you, Mr. Secretary! Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0296	None at all. I'm sorry. What do you say, you say the same thing. It says "controlful blow." You say the same thing. He opposes the HSYK Law, and you oppose it. You took his statement and you talked. That's where you come in and tell me. And when we say it, it's another thing against it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0423par0297	Did you take out the AKP and go back to...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0298	There's another thing, there's a law here that the House accepts, there's a law on soldiers.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0424par0299	You're not telling the truth, you'll get hit!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0418par0300	There's also Mr. Secretary of Defense here. The decision to reduce the stockpiling of the colonel's staff is being made in the winter of the High Military Sura of 2015. In this framework comes a law on the recommendation of the General Staff, which is discussed in Parliament. I've looked a little, no matter what anyone says, there's nothing against it in CHP. But you know what? There's a motion being made. Whose signatures are on the motion.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0425par0302	Mr. President, he's been waiting three minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0426par0303	Mr. Secretary, I gave you two minutes, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0427par0305	I submit the motion: There are signatures of Ancient Durmaz, Bihlun Tamayligil, Tule Karbük, Dursun Cicek, Selin Sayek Böke, Mahmut Tanal, Yakub Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0428par0306	What?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0427par0307	The possibilities that are brought in here, when they're being transferred to retirement, the motion that these opportunities are scarce, that they need to be increased is here, and these signatures are under there. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Look, there's something else. Mr. Dursun Flowers is also giving a speech on the motion. After giving a speech, he says it needs to be increased.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0429par0310	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0427par0311	You read the speech text in the CHP rows, not to read it all -- he speaks positively, he finds less, and the CHP people applaud it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0429par0312	We're liquidating, you're talking about compensation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0427par0313	Later, after July 15th, we lifted this law from the force of the KHK. We didn't want any more; we found that something was wrong, and we stepped in right away, and when we saw the wrong, we didn't go to him.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0429par0314	Ha, bravo! We are telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0427par0315	We're doing it, but now you're going out and the government's doing it right, and it's getting in the way of something. You're trying to hit the government from here instead of saying it. Is that a thing? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute the esteemed committee, the esteemed members of our House. I'll leave it to your conscience.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0430par0319	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0430par0321	Dear fellow, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0322	Mr. President, as the owner of the motion, Mr. Secretary has made an attempt on my own.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0432par0323	He didn't take you seriously. You took it personally, like a duck-and-rain thing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0324	He said, "Did he give you this request?" I want to have a say in this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0433par0325	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0329	I am one of the first journalists to be sued by the leader of the terrorist organization Fetullah Gulen.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0434par0330	Was it mutual, consulting?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0331	I'm one of the first journalists to be sued by all the police. Mr. Secretary, I want to ask the Minister -- I'm not looking for a polemic, a debate -- how do you decide that one person can rule in 40 seconds? Why are you removing the 70-point dam in writing? And why is 800 of the 900 people who have passed these forty seconds constantly involved with the AKP?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0333	Get proof, look, I'm resigning.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0334	I will, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0335	And you're gonna quit.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0336	Mr. Secretary, I'll get it. I got it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0337	Look, I'm telling you in front of the whole nation: 800 names and we'll resign together.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0338	And Mr. Secretary, why don't you explain to me who scored how many points on this test?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0339	Explain it to me, I'm resigning.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0340	Look, do you know where I got these?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0341	Explain, I'll resign.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0342	A lawyer called me because I was a Republican People's Party, and I wasn't elected as a judge, and 10 lawyers took the examination at Giresun, and nine of them won, and 9 of them said AKP. I said, "Where can I get these names?" He said, "It's on the Ministry of Justice website."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0435par0343	It's all in the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0431par0344	I entered the Ministry of Justice's website; really in Giresun, 10 lawyers took the test, 1 of the MHP have eliminated him, all of the 9 lawyers have been called to Ankara as the AKP administrator and are now judges. How many points did these people get? How was it decided that they would rule over a 40-second interview? Come on, cancel this test. Let these interviews be held in front of the public, in front of the cameras, and let us trust the judges who will be appointed from there, and let us make a heartfelt statement when they call. Look what happened yesterday. Mr. Secretary is talking about judicial independence. Upon being taken to the prosecutor's office, Mr. Minister, the Ankara Anti-Terror Branch Director is said to have entered the prosecutor's office. If that's your independence of justice -- as a student who was tried at DGM in 1994 -- even in 1994, those governments wouldn't dare. Where we've come from, where we've come from. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0436par0348	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0438par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0436par0351	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0352	Sir, the Minister turned to us in his speech and said, "You are a liar." With all this open teasing...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0436par0353	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0356	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I truly regret to see the Minister of Justice making such a speech in front of a Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I assume you'll make the necessary changes in a cabinet change.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0439par0358	Looks like the group vice president is changing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0359	Now, Mr. Prime Minister, the issue is that in the final trials of the judge, let alone the member of the Justice and Development Party, the executives have won the examination. Now, Mr. Secretary just showed me a list. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, please explain to me whether that list is related to the judge's prosecutor's exam or whether it's related to the coroner's exam.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0440par0360	Judge prosecutor... official newspaper...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0441par0361	No, it's not.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0362	Now, I'm telling you, you can tell us that the county manager of the Republican People's Party, etcetera, etcetera, was made a judge in the time of the minister, etcetera, or so on. We can evaluate this together, but you can't show us. You're talking about people who know his personal ideological approach. We're talking about the truth. Mr. Prime Minister, on this list of 107 people, they all work in various districts of AK PARTI, district managers in their districts. We can't accept a situation like this. Look, according to the Law on Basic Decisions of Elections, when judges and prosecutors run for office, they can't come back if they can't win, Dear President, there's a painting like this.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0442par0364	We brought him in, we brought him in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0437par0365	If you now elect judges and prosecutors personally from the AK PARTY executives, it will politicalise the judiciary in Turkey. That's what we're trying to tell you, that's what we're trying to prove. But Mr. Secretary has never been able to get into what he's saying here because if he does, we'll give him ten responses. Everybody watch your step on this. My respects.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0443par0369	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0444par0373	Mr. President, I don't really feel the need for it to be a direct tease, but there's no group here who's ever fought against it. I wanted to take the stand because he's accused our group.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0445par0374	I didn't say "group," I said "kiktidar."
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0444par0375	Now, we have dozens of proposals and a lot of warnings that we've expressed in our time, in fact, within the state, in fact, that are being donated and seriously occupied. Besides, it was made very clear by our co-Chair, Demirtaş. None of this was taken into account. Now, we, of course, can't possibly know more about its output because it's known to the AK PARTY friends, so they know where it is.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0446par0378	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0444par0379	And since they're the ones who sang praises before, they know best where this structure is. In the same way, frankly, there are things the Minister of Justice said, one of the most valuable things in this country. There are words he said about Fetullah Gulen. So does the Home Secretary. Now, it takes a little compassion to speak of independent judgment, justice, and not give them the slightest bit of self-criticism about them. I just wanted to express it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0446par0381	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0447par0384	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, if we answer from the podium for hours, there's nothing to say to the allegations that the Minister has made, to the phonies he's used, but one injustice is that he has no choice but to make a motion to discuss that law because you've brought a bag of law because the opposition party can't talk about it because it can't be talked about, when it's discussed with the bag of law.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0448par0386	Can't you object? No. Can't you say no?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0449par0387	Dursun Çiçek....there's a speech here on the stand.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0447par0388	I'm going on, and besides, yours is a liquidation, and ours is an increase in compensation.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0450par0389	It's the same. It's the same.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0447par0390	It would not be appropriate for you to accuse me of increasing compensation for your friends who are trying to retire, just as I am protecting the pharmacist's rights. We're the government that has the most to fight against. You're saying, Mr. Secretary, you've set the fire, you're bragging about two buckets of water you threw away. Shame!
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0392	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Sertel, you asked for a word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0452par0396	I'd like to address the Minister of Justice: Izmir Aigakada Şakran Women's Prison, where our young girls, our young girls, protesting, have been robbed, is that your justice? Don't look around naked, that's your justice? Is it your justice to blacken the future of the students who were arrested for protesting and just because Menemen came out? What kind of Minister of Justice are you? I'm going there. Those kids can't take their exams. 19-20-year-old college students, no crime, no criminal weapon, nothing. Is it your justice to arrest them just because they throw slogans? Mr. Secretary will explain that. If that's justice, then it's really your justice...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0400	Thank you, Mr. Sertel. Mr. Beştaş, you have a request.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0402	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0403	One moment, Mr. Elitaş, we'll take a vote.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0404	Sir, I'll talk to you about the procedure.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0405	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0406	We're interviewing the question right now.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0407	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0408	It's written in the Civil Code on how to view the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0409	Right.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0410	The Constitution refers to 99. According to the Constitution 99, the proposal holders, political party groups and minister can speak.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0411	Okay.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0412	It is against the Civil Code and the Constitution that you now make a commitment according to 60.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0413	Mr. Elitaş, don't teach me the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0414	Mr. President, please, look...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0415	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0416	Mr. President, the session is complete. You vote...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0417	I'll do it.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0418	...promise according to him by 60.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0451par0419	I will, Mr. Elitaş. Look, he's a member of parliament who wants a word, and according to 60, he's going into the system.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0420	Mr. President, we're interviewing the geneor, where the negotiations are held at the beginning of the opening of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0454par0421	No, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0422	Right now, there's been a series of geneorization interviews. You'll finish the interview, and then...
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0455par0423	Okay, it's over.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0424	But you're not.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0455par0425	One more to go, Mr. Elitaş, one more to go.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0453par0426	Mr. President, please apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0455par0427	One more to go, it's over. Mr. Beştaş, here's your final word, and then we'll vote.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0456par0430	Mr. President, in fact, when I asked you to speak for Mr. Minister of Justice, the speaker who spoke for the EC PARTY Group, said that everything was fine in prisons, that there was no abuse or torture. Mr. Justice is here, and I'd like to express it in particular. We're actually getting a lot of applications from prisons. The last call was today from the Furmen and Bandırma Prison. I have their names on me, and I can't give them because they don't fit in a minute, but there's abuse, naked search and battery, so there's beatings, and there's stitches on his head, a prisoner named Suleyman. I'll get his name to you later. I, myself, have been in prison for three months, and I have witnesses there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, let's take precautions to eliminate these complaints about prisons, because it's going to be a very serious place.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0455par0433	Well, thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Members of parliament, talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion to be filed on Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ has been completed. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on whether or not the motion for the motion to be brought up on Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ should be taken into consideration. I'm going to have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the vote on Justice Minister Mr. Bekir Bozdağ be held in the form of an open vote under Article 143 of the Civil Code. Peace Yfriend, Istanbul? Here. Free Special, Manisa? Here. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Erkan Aydın, Bursa? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Omar Fethi Gürer, Niğde? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? Here. Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet, Bigeli? Here. Didem Engin, Istanbul? Here. Tour Star Reaper, Manisa? Here. Ali Akstar, Sivas? Here. Gaye Cullier, Eskişehir? Here. Hüseyin Pineak, Mersin? Here. Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Edirne? Here. That's 15 MPs, all right. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, if there are those who will vote as acting ministers, I request that they vote to which minister, in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, open vote on whether or not Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ (11/15) is on the agenda of the primary Gensoru Öngret. ▪ Used Number of Votes : 373
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0457par0472	Mr. President, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is continuing his mission, but I'd like to stress that the government is underlined. He didn't get the vote of confidence, he just got rid of the gene.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0458par0473	Mr. President, you haven't announced the decision yet, Mr. Freeman is interfering.
tbmm-2017-05-24sit05spe0455par0474	The motion for the gene is not approved. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 358, which is ranked in the 1st place, and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 362 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision was made on Thursday (May 25th 2017) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them in accordance with the decision taken, it is now 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
