tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Congressmans, before I make any non-responsive remarks, I'd like to share my thoughts, feelings with the General Assembly on the occasion of the new year. Members of parliament, despite the atrocities that took place last weekend at this first session of 2017 in İstanbul Ortaköy, despite the young deaths of unguarded people, I wish our MPs and citizens a good year by maintaining my faith and hope in the bright future of our country despite our martyrs. On the night of New Year's Eve, our citizens celebrating the new year in Ortaköy, and believing in Turkey, came as guests in confidence, their workers, our security guards, who worked there, were brutally martyred. The aim of terrorism is to destroy Turkey's unity, its peace, its peace, its social structure. It's a fact you should never keep out of sight. To this end, terrorism has launched attacks on our people, our soldiers on duty, our police, watching the game, traveling on the weekend, or going to work to do their job. This time, terrorism has targeted a venue for entertainment in Ortaköy. This is a serious assassination against a lifestyle. These people were targeted and slaughtered for celebrating New Year's Eve. The goal is to create a conflict between different lifestyles. It's obvious, it's not right not to see it, ignore it, not talk about it. Turkey is the only democracy in its region with a secular, democratic society tradition where different lifestyles are intertwined, people live their lives, religion, beliefs freely. Now they want to disband such a beautiful synthesizing of life, not only for us, but for this jewel that is precious to the world. The pluralism, the plurality is the main feature of our secular, democratic republic, and terrorism wants to eliminate it. It's one thing to do against it, and together, as brothers, to live together without destroying our differences. We must insist on defending humanity's values, which are essential to the violence that advocates death, and eliminate a morbid thought, such as intolerance to different lifestyles. The community expects the political institution to prevent terrorism. It is the duty of all political parties, especially the government, to prevent terrorism, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the political institution. Everyone, all institutions must think about this and carry out the mission quickly. Every person that terror has taken from us is ours. This mourning must be a mourning for all of us. If we don't have common mourning, we can't come together to rebuild life, to produce common values. When we remember those who lost their lives in terror, and when we send them away on their eternal journey, we must bind our hands firmly together, shoulder to shoulder. Unity and unity shouldn't just be the words we say at ceremonies, the words we say after our losses. In times like these, we have to stick together more, now is the time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask God's mercy on our people who have lost their lives in the acts of terror, to heal our wounded, to ask God's mercy on our martyrs. I'm sorry for the loss of our country and humanity. I congratulate you again on your new year, with a built-up and peaceful wish for Turkey, where there is no public peace, no fighting, no noise, no terror and no violence. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya, who asked for a comment on the attack on Reina in İstanbul. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, let 2017 lead to good deeds for our country, for our people and for all the people of the world. I sincerely wish that 2017 would be a year when those who insist on war and not peace for our country, for our region and for our whole world have lost. Unfortunately, the news of a new massacre burned us in the first minutes of 2017, when Turkey arrived with the policies of war and expansion, not inland and outside peace. 39 young people lost their lives in Reina, while 65 are still being treated. You remember Pakistan, when the Taliban and al-Qaeda raised and raised Afghanistan, and one day that barrel had returned to them, but as if they had never learned from it, this is the result of the policies of our government in Turkey. It's the people who run this country who are responsible. You all know the words of our president. What he said in his own words, we politicians are responsible for the murders committed in our country, we have to show our attitude because when the people vote for you, you will provide my safety, my safety, my property. He said, Mr. President, and he said, "That's very true." But in such a brutal massacre, after each massacre, after every cursed, brutal massacre, government executives, politicians, immediately, immediately, without any evidence at all, immediately from the first moments, a certain number of our people, even millions, even the three-party representative of those millions, were able to enter a lynching speech, but unfortunately, after the massacre in Reina, after the Council of Ministers, the Numan Survivor, who spoke as a government spokesman, could have crossed that claim once and again. Unfortunately, a lynching culture campaign has been launched in our entire community for Christmas in the days before the attack. Reina, if we think of it as a Christmas attack, it's an insult of faith, it's the other way around, it's the second. If we say this attack took place over a Christmas celebration, it's an intervention in a lifestyle, it's an attack. And as these campaigns continued, this culture of hatred and lynching, with the official barriers of the dianetin, has covered every part of the society. Dear friends, my dear lawmakers, you all know the 256th verse in the House of Bakara: there is no compulsion or oppression in religion, and righteousness has departed from error. We did not send you to watch over them in the 80th verse of Nisa.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0003par0024	You know as well as I do that this is not about religion, so let's not get ahead of ourselves.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0002par0025	My words are not yet finished, but one of the painful images of Reina touched me very much, a woman who survived the attack said: "I took refuge in the God of Muhammad. There is no way of life that we should take refuge in the Lord of Muhammad, the God of Muhammad, or the kingdom of Muhammad, which he has brought to me, that he should not have a way of life, a way of life that alters the faith, a way of life, or a way of life that alters violence and lives. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0005par0029	That doesn't really suit you. It doesn't really suit you. I mean, you know this has nothing to do with religion, you're just sabotaging it. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0002par0030	When it's New Year's Eve, it's his way of life.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0004par0031	The second off-the-book statement is from Mersin MP Yilmaz Tezcan, who wanted to address the 95th anniversary of Mersin's rescue from enemy occupation on January 3rd. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0006par0034	You know this is not an act of religious terrorism.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0007par0035	The borders are in the middle.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0006par0036	This is not an act of religious terrorism. It doesn't suit you at all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0007par0037	The religion has taken its lead. There's a religion, why do you say that?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0006par0038	Don't do it, don't criticize us over religion, don't do it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0007par0039	We've got to say this to Dianete.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0008par0040	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0009par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an oath off the agenda for the 95th anniversary of the liberation of January 3 of Mersin. I salute you. Your helmet fell to the ground, protecting your forehead that your mother could not kiss. / You're on a stretcher, your dreams, who knows how old you are. / 20, 21, 22? Can you be measured by your age? / Now we have tears in our eyes and fire in our hearts. / Our hatred will live. / May God give patience to your weeping families. May your place be in heaven, my brothers and sisters. The martyr police Burak Yıldız wrote these lines for his friends who were martyrs in Beşiktas on December 10th. We sent him on an eternal journey to Mersin yesterday with a vicious and despicable terrorist attack in Ortaköy, God rest his soul. On Saturday night, I condemn this vile terrorist attack against our innocent and unprotected citizens and our foreign nationals in Istanbul, and I pray to God for mercy on those who have passed away, patience on their families, and immediate healing for our wounded. Those who try to create chaos in our country through acts of terror, who try to demoralize our nation, who try to destabilise our country, know that they will not succeed. We're never going to allow ourselves to play dirty games by sticking to each other more and more. In addition, I ask Allah's mercy and patience for the five of our citizens who died last week in the flood of the Mediterranean, Yenişehir, Toros, Mezitli, and Tarsus, especially in our counties. In 2001, a similar disaster occurred in our city last week as a natural disaster with an average of 170 kilograms per square meter. As soon as we received the news of the disaster, our Minister of Development, Mr. Lütfi Elvan, and the MPs in the region, we immediately moved to Mersin. All of our public institutions and organizations, especially our governor, have been mobilized with all their tools and equipment, and the wounds will be covered as soon as possible. And at today's group meeting, the Prime Minister sends his regrets to our residents of Mersin and promises to help them financially because of this flood. One of the reasons why our Mersin, who faced a great natural disaster, experienced this disaster is because of years of neglected infrastructure investments and constructions on riverbeds and buildings. In order to get through this, I'm saying that we all have to come together as city dynamics. Again, I wish our citizens of Mersin's Anamur, Aydıncık, Bozyır, Silifke districts and Erdemli districts, that they have passed through here once again because of the storm and because of the snow. As you know, our new draft constitution package, which has been adopted as a result of intensive work on the commission, is coming to the Parliamentary General Assembly. I wish the package of constitutional amendments well for our country and our nation. January 3rd is an important and special day for the Turkish nation and the people of Mersin, expressing independence. On 17 December 1918, the British began their occupation from Mersin, leaving their allies to the French, Mersin, Adana, Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, and Antalya. On January 3, 1922, our city, Mersin, our city, burned the torch of independence, showing their hearts, bodies, and the love of faith in their breasts that the Turkish nation would never submit to captivity. As a nation that lives and recognizes differences as wealth, as a nation that honors our glorious history, we will walk with all its elements, with all its ethnicities, with all its religious groups and with all its sects, after which, as heirs of tolerance and peace civilization, with love, with hope and determination. And December 27th is the day of our town's liberation from enemy invasion, and January 5th is the day of the liberation of our Adana. I ask God's mercy on our beloved martyrs and our undead veterans who have given us this day with these thoughts and feelings. I wish peace, peace, health and happiness to the world of 2017 and to our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0010par0054	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. The third unscheduled statement is from Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı who asked for a comment on the 95th anniversary of the January 3 of Mersin's rescue from enemy occupation and the flood in Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0011par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mersin, on January 3, 1922, survived the invasion of the enemy today ninety-five years ago. How did the enemy invade Mersin? We can't understand today without understanding history. In 1918, he signed the surrender agreement of the Sultan Osmanlı, a man who collected all the powers, and in effect signed the removal of his own state from the historical scene, agreeing to be occupied by foreign states. He's the one who single-handedly decided on the people's budget, who decided to fight a war on his own, who was signing all kinds of deals with strangers alone, who was throwing out all the executives and ending their duties. Does any of this sound familiar to you today? The people of Anatolia understood that there would be no hope for the king, the only one who has gathered all the powers and, by this authority, disbanded his army, delivered his weapons, left his lands and fled. Then our people rebelled against the will of one man, took his own future into his own hands, and burned the fire of salvation in Anatolia. The fire of the National Liberation War took place in Mersin, as it did in every corner of our Anatolia. The salvation of Mersin was achieved by the organised struggle of the Defense Law Society, founded on the Ezne plateau as a result of the mind, the seeker of freedom, and the solidarity of the people. The valiant sons of Mersin have defied the imperial powers, and from every race, every faith, every kind of citizen has taken possession of their homeland. Under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, commander of the victorious armies of a dark period, our people have established a new state system, with a new understanding of the post-rescuement, where all powers, or sovereignty, are not assembled in one person. That's where the importance of understanding history emerges. Our people have lived and understood what it means to have all power over one person, the blood, the soul, the property, to pay a very heavy price. Our people have been institutionalized and used the authority to govern at high prices by the parliamentary system in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Let those who, after 90 or five years, gather the authority to rule in one hand and reverse the course of history know that this path is dark, and our people will never surrender to this darkness. The leader of salvation and a modern organization, the great leader of the revolutionary Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is grateful for our heroic veterans, who sacrificed their lives for their country and gave us this beautiful country with mercy and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, on this special day, where we celebrate the liberation of Mersin from enemy occupation 90 years later, unfortunately, the people of Mersin are suffering. On the other hand, the heavy snowfalls on Mersin's part, as a result of the flood, we regret to celebrate Mersin's deliverance from the enemy's occupation. According to official statements, a third of the rain that rained during the year on 30 December 2016 has rained and a flood has occurred. We lost five lives in the flood. The people of Mersin were left without electricity, without water, homeless and unemployed, with millions of square metres of greenhouses and fields flooded. Especially Kelahmet, Ears, Tipil, Ancestors, Yeşiltepe farmers, Kazanlı and Adanalıoğlu farmers in our Mediterranean district and all the merchants in the centre of the city are devastated. In the cities of Gülnar, Mut, Çamlıyayla, Silifke, Erdemli districts and greenhouses destroyed by heavy snow, the villagers and farmers are in trouble. The government, who cannot rule the country, must, at least, immediately, help quickly heal the wounds by declaring all of Mersin's disaster zones. All loan debts of farmers, merchants and floods must be postponed without interest and financial assistance must be given to the damaged farmer, peasant, and tradesman. People expect help from you, not the wish of the past. Mersin, who contributes seriously to Turkey's economy and is the 7th in the tax-paying ranking, is at least awaiting the compassion of the state in these difficult days. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0012par0065	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out according to the first joke of Article 59 of the Civil Code. Now, there is a request to speak out of the question, and I will fulfill that request. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government regarding recent incidents and domestic security measures, Mr. Süleyman Soylu has an off-the-the-top request in accordance with Article 59 of the Civil Code, which I shall meet before the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, five for the non-group MP. Yes, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, as I put it, your speech time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0013par0076	Mr. President, highly valued MPs have made a commitment to inform our General Assembly under the decree of Article 59 of the Interior Charter on recent events and domestic security measures, and I salute your grand delegation with my love and respect. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers are global, not domestic or regional, no matter what country they occur in; they have international feet, connections, and support. Most importantly, terrorism has changed shapes and shapes, as well as resources, relationships, tools that it uses. Today, a terrorist organization that seems very different from each other can meet in one line, transform, transform their way of action is threatening the entire world. The world has stepped in the shadow of problems such as terrorism and migration into the 21st century. The Middle East, in particular, has been seen as a playground of terror isolated by global forces, where the environment has been somehow mauled. The world, which views World Wars First and Second as a corrective war, is in a global error, such as seeing Middle East as a correcting zone. Co-ordinators of global terrorism seek and take steps to fulfill their desires in our region in line with global plans. As a result, this structure, which has become a threat to the state systems of the 21st century, does not accept democracy and the rule of law, has begun its attacks on the world's level of civilization without limit. It is a reflection of these dark desires that terrorism responds to the explosions of Kayseri, Beşiktaş and Ortaköy, from humanitarian aid in Aleppo to the assassination of Andrei Karlov. With these attacks, terrorism wants to damage the economy in Turkey, it tries to scare off domestic and foreign capital, it wants to harm Turkey's most important power, its brotherhood, and its unity. However, Turkey responded to these attacks each time with its own civilization code, with the codes of Anatolian civilization. He responded to the incidents of terror that began after 7 June with Marmaray, Osmangazi Bridge, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Eurasia Tunnel. At this point, it is clear and clear that terrorism will not be able to turn Turkey from its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071. In addition to those answers, Turkey continues its fight against terrorism within the state's responsibility, law and democracy, in the concept of a new struggle to destroy terrorism with law enforcement forces, police, police, security guards, members of the Turkish Armed Forces. Inside, there is an active fight with the PKK, its extensions, and the DEAS at the same time; outside, there is an active fight with the DEASH through Operation Fırat Shield. Against the shape-shifting of terrorism, our country has come up with a sense of security policies, youth policies, social policies, that are more important to eliminate danger than in its territory. Mr. President, the precious MPs today Turkey is not only at the point of fighting terrorism, but at the point of dissolving terrorism. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to review what was done at this stage and present some information to your grand board: In the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), one, all the so-called bases and shelters have been entered into. 5.826 operations have been conducted in the last three months alone. Two, with all of our units in central and rural co-ordinated, we're fighting terrorism, we're doing our operations, the Turkish Armed Forces, the Gendarme Special Ops, the Police Special Ops, our security guards, all together. And again, I would like to state to our General Assembly that in the last 15 days, I have traveled about 10 provinces in the southeastern part of a 20-day time envelope. On each side, with NGOs, with our governors, with our trustees, with our security guards, with our clans, with almost everyone, at 8:00 in the morning, at 9:00 in the morning, and at one hour at night, at two in the morning, how should we do what? How should we rid Turkey and Turkey of terror? What should we tell more accurately? We have indeed demonstrated a work in the form of a full field work. I want to say that we have a lot to learn, because if we have a will to eliminate terrorism, it's important that we bring it to a good point, both for our people, our employees, our security forces, our children, both for our knowledge and for morale and motivation, especially in the Southeast Anatolia region where terrorism is facing. Three: in the winter months -- in January, February, March -- we sat down with our security forces in the countryside again, not only in spring and summer, but also in winter, we had to leave terror helpless. We planned operations in about 125 base regions. I must say, from November 21, our children are determined to put up a great fight in these base areas, whether it is a constant -- even if it is a hundred feet [1 m] of snow, even if it is 5 feet [5 m] of snow, minus 20 degrees [20 degree] cold. Four, again, I have to say, there have been 85 operations in 57 areas so far. In the last three months -- and I want to underline this -- 485 shelters in this area in 2016 have been rendered unusable. The reason for this is that our security forces have demonstrated a great strategy so as not to allow the terrorist organization, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK, the UK, the YPG to be wintered. Five, criminal sanctions with administrative and judicial authorities continue to be carried out by operations against the terrorist organisation's village and city structures, aiding and abetting, providing logistics and personnel, civil society organisations and all other structures. Even this morning, I'd like to say that those who were a terrorist auctioner and those who claimed to be militiamen have been taken into custody, at whatever point, at which point, at which point, at which point, this struggle continues. On the one hand, we're carrying on with our air elements. We're building Kalekol, the kulak, police security point, and we're allowing these areas to be equipped with night vision and thermal cameras and integrated into the center and monitored. So we're putting together a state of technology that can be used at the highest level in counterterrorism. Again, by providing border security, we are preventing terrorist organizations from infiltrating our country and especially financing terrorism on the road to smuggling. I want you to know that we've reached the final point on the wall of the Syrian border, 42 kilometers of Ağrı-Van border, 58 kilometers of Iğdır-Iran border, 75 kilometers of Dokkca-Dağlıca road and 76 kilometers of security roads to Şırnak-Van-Siirt lines. Just three days ago, four days ago, on Friday, the Public Housing Authority and I carried out our protocol to build firewalls all over our lines of Pain and Iğdir. Hopefully very soon, too, because the pain limit is one of the important processes related to smuggling the Iğdır border, especially to the nesting of the terrorist organization in Tendurek. Again, I would like to point out that our Police General Directorate 264,294, our General Command of the Gendarme, 138,580, our Coast Guard Command 5,233... plus a total of 65,889 security guards, 47,354 security guards, 18,355 volunteers. I'd like to point out to your grand delegation that we're watching the terrorist organization step by step, and while we're watching the terrorist organization -- let me draw the bottom -- what actions they're trying to demonstrate, in some way, to find out, what strategies they're trying to put together, and that we're trying to put our measures before the actions of the terrorist organization. I've said this for 10,000 police purchases, plus 10,000 Special Ops. Normally, our cops have six months, seven months of normal learning time. We did another study, and we put Saturday and Sunday into the study days. Hopefully, on March 20th, we've created an understanding that, in a way, our new officers could be in the field -- especially those who were expelled from the field -- by somehow reinforcing our police force, we've pulled back the period, the time period, and our police force a little bit further in the field. Again, 13.150 gendarmes, 790 Coast Guard, 733 guards and security guards... we've changed the status of the security guards. So, 45-50, 50-55-year-old security guards between 45 and 50-50, as their elders, and after 50, we're forced to retire, trying to replace them with their relatives. The reason is very clear: Today our rangers have an average age of 41 years. Our goal is to bring him down to 32 · Global Voices and make this challenge stronger in the field with them. I'd like to say once again that we're going to take advantage of the rangers we've retired. Again, an assignment was made to municipalities providing logistics and financial support for aiding and abetting terrorism. And since that's one of the issues of the gene vote, I'm going to present the broader and broader information to your committee. In addition, operations are being carried out for the terrorist organisation's revenues from extortion, donations, smuggling, auction companies, municipalities. On December 26th, we've completed a $15 million operation with 5 through our police intelligence, which needs to be taken care of by the Carabinieri. But I also want to say that in the coming days, we're going to tighten our operations on this particular understanding of terrorism. I want you to know very clearly that whatever connection there is to terrorism is here, that we are in the presence of your delegation, once again, in an understanding that has identified their connections and sent them to the law, to the judicial authorities, where they will be tried. Again, the fight against narco terrorism -- one of the most important partners and partners in terrorism -- is considered to be a 1.5 billion dollars a year income from the KCK terrorist organization. 4 billion liras worth of drugs were seized in lice alone. The other day at lice, 4,630 kilograms of dust were seized. So all operations done, I want you to know that they're targeted operations. We've mapped the drugs district of our provinces. We've established where we're going to operate. I'd like to say that we're also considering these operations on drugs, just as we've done and done operations on base areas of terrorism, and we're continuing them. Again, narcotics teams in narcotics terrorism are important organizations, law enforcement organizations. We have increased the number of provinces from 29 to 50. This makes it very clear that in 92 per cent of Turkey, we have a number of individuals who can fight narco terrorism. And if we get a chance to talk about the association again tonight, I'll answer because it's still a question of your gene. There are about 110,000 associations in Turkey. A total of 1,108 put together 1.108 (KCK) and 1.325 associations, including the PKK, the KCK; the DHKP-C, and the DEAS, are closed in total. Again, city security and road security are one of our most important elements, especially to prevent explosive materials, to prevent the removal of explosives. Road security: In order to protect the safety of our citizens' lives and goods, to narrow the movement of terrorist organisations, there is continuous road safety at 2,650 checkpoints, 24 hours based on mixed teams of police and guards. All city security management systems are being integrated into PTS, EDS, municipality, UKOME, fuel stations, AVM parking structures, PolNet. I want you to know that this integration has been going on for about three months, four months, so integrating from the OGS to the ground roads will also fall into the Security System of the Security System of the gas station, the Security System of the gas station, and the AVM parking lot of the AVM, if it's a wrong vehicle, and I want to say again that the Security System of the municipalities that coordinated all of this will also fall into the UKOME. So, when we take this step towards terrorism, we take our best measures. Again, this is another glad news: on March 1, 2017, in 22 of our eastern provinces, I would like to say that we will finish the entire Plaka Information System as a result of a statement that we made with ASELSAN. Again, we've made arrangements specifically in the ordinance of the law on stolen vehicles and fake plates. It was very important, so their punishment was very low, and there were a lot of miscarriages, such as banning traffic. We've literally removed all of the license plate writing from here, which prevents it from being read by the PD's own license plate model, or by its plate recognition system or by technical systems. With these regulations, the number of vehicles producing alarms has been reduced from 1,33,000 to 489,000. The reason is that we've established all of these measures so that we don't block the time of our security forces through the point vehicle, point target, point transfer, more and more unregulated vehicles. Security measures are especially increased in areas where the public is busy, such as subways, trams, buses, bus breaks and terminals, railway stations, airports, port docks. We're very clear on that. I was in a Southeast Anatolian province the other day. When an AVM official told me that he would not increase security measures, that he would not comply with norm security measures, I spoke to him and asked him: either you increase or we will have to shut down this AVM. Again, we faced an international company in Ankara. So, when an international company says that we don't increase our security measures in your norms. When Ankara tells our governor, I only call the interior minister of that country, and I will tell him if this company has the ability to respond when asked for the same security measures in their country. When I say that, the company has been called -- a very large company -- and has the will to take all security measures. The most important issue is that a day-to-day rental home was one of our basic problems with terrorism. In this regard, we have issued a decree in accordance with the law to inform the police. Again, we've signed a protocol with our energy market regulator for fuel stations. Again, about the schools our children go to, I'd like to point out that we've located about 17,000 schools, but we've conducted a protocol with our Ministry of National Education on the top 762 schools. In three months, we're setting up every camera system in the 762 security priority school. Again, anyone who's been in social media for the past six months, spreading organization propaganda, touching the basic sensitivities of our nation, trying to expose mutual hatred, we're following them with our prosecutors. 3,847 people have been processed and 1,729 have been arrested. So, on social media, we've taken steps against everyone's unity, unity, unity, peace of mind, peace, and a number of hate-makers who can eliminate our brotherhood. Again, I'd like to get to the results on this. In 2016, 339 major incidents were blocked. 313 of them were arrested by PKK, 22 of them by DEAŞ, 4 by radical left-wing organisation; 247 by explosive vehicles, 61 by bomb suspects, 23 by bomb suspects, 42 by organization to act. 80 major events have been blocked in the last three months. Joining the organization was 3,572 terrorists in 2015, while 559 terrorists in 2016. I'd like to give you the number in the last two months, just five; in the last two months, participation in the organization has only been five, with all our surveillance and surveillance. Surrender has reached the highest level in the last 17 years, and 457 people have fled from the terrorist organization and surrendered to the judicial authorities in 2016. In 2016, 110 alleged high-ranking terrorists were neutralized -- 80 of them on the wanted list -- 44 terrorists have been neutralized in the last three months. In 2016 3,506 DEAS members were taken into custody and 1.531 people were foreigners. 694 of them have been arrested, including 1,338. I would like to say to your grand delegation that we have continued our very serious work on DEASH for the past two months, by bringing it to the highest level of work that we have carried out in a long time. All of our police officers, our gendarmes, have demonstrated very important and very serious work on this matter; from Gaziantep to Istanbul, we continue our operations to the DEA members who are trying to disturb the peace of our country in many places, from the time of the month to the end of the month. Again, a ban has been imposed on 52,072 foreign terrorist fighters from 145 countries. 4,019 people from 98 countries have been deported. Not only is the DEA and the PKK, but the country's other scourge is the terrorist organization. 92,538 people were taken into custody, 41,749 people were arrested, 779 people are still under arrest. In 2016, 921 people were arrested and 421 others were arrested. Can we have a few more minutes?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0014par0109	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0013par0111	Thank you. Dear lawmakers, terrorism does not send messages to a single location; it sends messages to the world, Turkey, national will. 602 vehicles were burned in France on New Year's Eve in 2015. On New Year's Eve 2016, 650 vehicles were torched on this New Year's Eve. Terror wants only one thing: it wants to dictate that sovereignty is in democracy, in humanity, not in people's free will, but in itself. At this point, not just Turkey, but all humanity must take a complete stand. Turkey will end terrorism and end terrorism; it is the end of DEAŞ, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the end of KCK (KCK), the end of terrorism and so on, but what is important is the end of terrorism. In order to do so, the whole world must show a determined will. As the world formed international troops such as NATO, the United Nations, perhaps today at the point of fighting international terrorism, not only with words, but with a firm understanding, we are all waiting, and it must be resolved by a global will, not by one or several countries' will. Terror is trying to scare us, let's not say we won't be afraid. Terror is trying to make us nervous, we have to say we won't be nervous. Terror wants us to live in fear, of course we have to rephrase that won't happen. There's no way we can surrender to that. We will reveal all our capacity, all our resources, all our power, and, of course, we will destroy terror in its source, as our President said. No one has to worry about that. I want you to know, we're having a lot of attacks. Of course it's our responsibility. Believe me, by 3:00 a.m., I'm not my general officer, nor my chief of police, nor my undersecretary, nor anyone who's in charge of this job is asleep. On the one hand, terrorism is putting up a fierce fight against its understanding of transmutation, and on the other hand, we are showing our will for both our security forces, who have come and done it, who are fighting terrorism, and that their morale is at its highest. Don't worry, we're doing everything we can in the fight against terrorism to eliminate terror, to achieve the peace of our nation, to remove terror from the agenda of this nation and this National Assembly. Terror is your word, terrorism is democracy, terrorism is our word, our unity and our brotherhood. On this occasion, I ask for mercy from God to all our martyrs, and for healing to those who are wounded, and I greet you with love, respect, and conversation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0015par0117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. After the government's extracurricular speech, I'll promise the political party groups. The first speaker is Erhan Master, Samsun Millettiqi, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0016par0122	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Party of Actions about the Home Secretary's information on terrorism. I salute you all. 2016 has been a difficult year for our country. We have left behind a year of sneaky rehearsals of social and cultural dissolution, a year when the treacherous intentions of our country have been publicly revealed by domestic and foreign collaborators. The subcontractor terror organizations have targeted our country as a co-direction. Turkey is the target of any terror and murder organization that is disruptive, destructive, separatist, and at the same time turned its back on weapons and violence. In 2016, our country was turned into a pool of blood through live bombs in Ankara, Bursa, Diyarbakır, Elaziğ, Gaziantep, Hakkari, Şırnak, İstanbul and Kayseri. In 2016, our total number of martyrs was 839. Since July 20, 2015, 600 of our soldiers, 382 of our police officers, 63 of our guards, 35 of our civil servants, 1,080 of our children have been killed, 663 of our citizens have died. We have approximately 2,105 soldiers, 1,564 police officers, 74 rangers, 4,277 citizens injured. On the night of New Year's Eve, Istanbul's Ortaköy nightclub was covered in blood by the vile terror executioners, who feed on human blood, have no compassion, no conscience. One of our officers was killed in the attack, 38 were killed and 65 were injured. Among the wounded are some who are in critical condition. I pray for immediate healing to all our wounded from the Lord of God. I wish God's mercy to our martyr police and to all our dead citizens, and my condolences to their grieving relatives. The target in the attack is neither a wedding procession nor a football match nor a lifestyle. The goal is mainly Turkey, the national unity and brotherhood of the Turkish nation. The world meets 2017 with economic and political turmoil, painful images of hearts burning. This is a sad and thought - inspiring picture, given the level of civilization. In our nearby geography, especially the center of our country, dark clouds are moving around, the religious and ethnically-centered instability in Iraq is rapidly climbing, Syria is actually being torn apart, massacres are taking place in Aleppo and other Turkmen regions. The U.S. deployment of positions, mobilisation of ISIS, distribution of weapons to YPG, armor to Kandil, arming and training terrorists have revealed additional risks and threats against our country. Our country was shot down in 2016.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0017par0133	Mr. Master, one moment, sir. Congressmans, there's a big hum in the General Assembly, and I'm having a hard time listening to the preacher on the stand. Please, sir, have some friends come out and have a chat there. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0018par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Where is wrong, who are the perpetrators of neglect and willlessness? How did terrorists nest in our homeland, feed on what resources and relationships, and who or who have been behind them? It's very important that all these uncertainties be reduced to a minimum, and in that it's the government's responsibility. The painting that I just described in numbers is a picture of national destruction. Mothers wouldn't cry, terror would end, spring would come to our country. It was said that the snowfalls would be gathered from the mountains without fear, and that the rivers of Murat and Fırat would flow into peace. And when did Turkey fall into this trap? Terrorist organisations such as PKK, NYD-YPG, ISIL and DHKP-C, who are simultaneously haunting Turkey's head, have the same trunks, only different branches. Operation Firat Shield in Syria is crucial to provide the response to any attack on our country and citizens, to ensure our border and the safety of the people in the region, to be contained and to eliminate the immigration problem. In 2017, the fight against terrorist organisations must continue until the end. Wherever the terrorists are, wherever they're breeding and attacking, they must be destroyed, and Operation Firat Shield should not be confined to Syria alone, but will continue to destroy terror and terrorist wherever threat comes against our country. Until the end, the National Movement Party is both a supporter and a prayer for the Turkish Armed Forces, fighting heroically within the border and within the border. The target of terrorism is Turkey. Turkey is the one that wants to break the will to live with its state and its nation. That's why all these terrorist attacks can't be thought of apart from each other, all of them complementing each other, their ultimate goal is unchanging acts of treason. The Republic of Turkey has the power and the power to deal with and crush all kinds of disgusting and undignified operations. The PKK, NYD-YPG, and DHKP-C will be groundless in the face of national dignity and dignity. There's no alternative and there's no other way. A clear message must be sent to locals and foreigners who feed terror and terrorists in order to break up their homeland, one and the other to destroy our union. Turkey is wanted to be confessed, but the Turkish nation will not drown in this flood of blood. As a nation, we will stick together more and more in the face of violence without the slightest fear of terror. In the fight against terrorism, as the National Movement Party, we have made it clear that we support the government. However, those who govern the state must take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of our people's lives and property. What do security and intelligence agencies deal with while armed and bombed scoundrels lock on to their targets and roam freely from the moment of discovery to the position of attack? The killings must end quickly, and our country and our nation must have peace and peace. In the heart of Istanbul, in its most busy and lively neighborhood, there have been a lot of questions about the villain and his action, which came with the Kaleshnikov (Kaleshnikov) in his hand and printed a famous venue of entertainment. The fact that similar attacks have been found in Europe and the United States should not cover negligence. In our great cities, in the world's largest Turkish city like Istanbul, such terrorist attacks can be very thoughty. In 2017, terrorist organisations will not stop, they will continue their provocation. It has to be prepared. It is the future of our country that is meant to be meant to be destroyed by our national unity and independence. The entire Turkish nation is at the end of a bloody barrel. To stand up against the enemy, to protect the entire country's sath is not only the power, but the moral responsibility of all of us. No matter what they do, they won't be able to divide our nation, they won't be able to share our country. The government must demonstrate its determination to fight terrorism. Every step in the fight against terrorism must be reviewed from intelligence to moral, equipment and field strategies; mistakes and shortcomings must be quickly resolved. During 14 years of government practices, as in all institutions, there have been serious weaknesses in law enforcement, intelligence and other security institutions. Our human resources and institutions need to be built very quickly into a more functional, planned, effective, and effective structure. This struggle is a process of determination. Those who run the state must now do more than condemn and curse against terror. In addition to the classic methods and tools, a full field struggle is essential. The government must form a rational, scientific, sustainable and national anti-terrorism policy within the culture of reconciliation, with a more strategic perspective. The legal legislation on the fight against terrorism must be revised in accordance with the security forces and the conditions that are developing. Terrorist activities must be regulated to prevent them from taking advantage of their civil rights and interests. As important as it is to eradicate terrorist organizations, it is imperative to face the real criminals who support them, hold them, feed them, and machete them, even more, to deal with them. We also expect a comprehensive challenge from the government. There is no longer time wasted in the face of the coming heavy dangers. It's time to meet in the common denominator of flag, country and nation without distinction. It's important to be with everyone who says, "Your breast is very important, it's important in history." There are many years and years and years of happiness that we have to go through together. As the National Movement Party, we extend our hand to everyone who respects our common denominator with all our sincerity and conversation. However, we declare here that we cannot forgive those who strive to divide. The National Movement Party and Turkish nationalists have vowed to protect Turkey's national unity and brotherhood law. We are part of a great loving cause that will embrace both the east and the west, and Alevi, and Sunni. We make peace and open our hearts with all those who call this land my home, who call the people who live on it, who say, "I am this country," who say, "I am this country." I pray to God for 2017 to keep both our country and war from terror and war because of scary, ugly, cold, and bring peace, prosperity, and peace that the great Turkish nation and all mankind thirst for. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0019par0160	Thank you, Mr. Master. Second speaker for the groups, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Sancar, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0020par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just been briefed on recent developments by the Home Secretary here on behalf of the government. In fact, we apologize for his speech, we have our mistakes, we have our weaknesses in security, we can't do what we have to do to make sure that people who have died don't get killed; we apologize to the nation, we apologize to you, we apologize to the General Assembly. If he had started, we would have had a serious hope that we were on a good path, there wouldn't have been any need for him to step down because we know that the resignation agency in Turkey doesn't do much in these situations. Whereas -- in a civilized country -- I am resigning as a Home Secretary who has failed to carry out his duties as Homeland Minister, as a Home Secretary who has failed to carry out his duty to maintain public order. If he had said, perhaps he would have taken the first step in Turkey and become a symbol of a new beginning, but he didn't do it. Well, he didn't do it, he could've done other things, like give us more information about this terrible massacre at Christmas. If he had tried to explain to us objectively, objectively, as well as objectively how the killings were created, how the killings were prepared and how the environment was prepared, perhaps it would have contributed to the creation of an atmosphere, a political, social air that would have prevented such attacks from disrupting social peace after that, as well. Before that, Mr. Secretary spoke after several attacks, massacres, and swore revenge, almost even called for revenge. The first condition of being a state of law, no doubt, is to adhere to the law. In fact, to become a state of law is essential, not to be a state of law. Look, I've been teaching government theory for years, maybe 20 years, and the first thing we've said to college 2th graders is that power is a broad concept, power in the state is part of it. There are other areas of power. For example, there's power in associations, in gangs, in mafias. They also have the means to use violence in some, at least in criminal organizations, criminal organizations, including the Mafia. They can even build a monopoly on violence within themselves. All of these are the characteristics of state power. So, what separates state power, criminal organizations, mafia or terrorist organizations from this power within them? It's our most critical knowledge, the simplest information, the most critical information, the most sensitive information: commitment to the law. What has lifted the border between the state and the mafia and terrorist organizations, the criminal organizations, is that the state's government is not bound by law. For example, a method such as revenge is a word a minister in a modern legal state shouldn't take to the mouth of a Minister of the Interior. It's both a duty and a responsibility to ask for an account within the law. Of course it's his job to do that. He can say that, but he can't call for revenge. So, what else is going on? The lynching initiatives. Turkey knows its lynching initiatives well, and there are very, very dark and dirty examples of that in our history. In one country, especially Turkey, lynching attempts in Turkey do not occur without direct or indirect approval by political authority, government executives, tolerance, sometimes encouragement. When you look at the history of lynchings in Turkey, there's no doubt that the government, within the political power, has laid the groundwork for this, they've tolerated it, sometimes they've encouraged it. After some terrorist attacks or massacres, their own responsibility has opened the way for lynchings to ward off the public response that could lead to them. HDP has been targeted after the massacres carried out by TAK or similar organisations. There have been attacks on our borough buildings, not only on them, but also on Kurds who are not directly connected to the party in some places. What has been done about them, what investigations have been launched legally? That's what we're asking, but the information we're getting is very limited. And the data is not satisfactory. What happens then? The lynching continues to be used as a management technique. As a management technique, the goal is to divert the public response that might be directed towards you, to avoid responsibility. Look, after this terrible massacre in Reina, a new scapegoat is being created on social media, the Flames are being targeted, they are being targeted as if the Flames were responsible for this environment. Those in or around the AKP can go on TV and say that the leaders of Alevi organisations are killed in Turkey. There's a massacre brewing before New Year's. Social media sharing... now that the investigation has opened, it says Mr. Secretary. So, how come you didn't make any noise when this was being done? People can be arrested because of a single criticism, but those who call for a massacre can write and draw as they please on social media. Someone calls for a massacre, and they conduct it with confidence that they will never be touched, and they are immediately arrested for criticizing the President or the government. In a country like this, you can't prevent violence or terrorism because terrorism has two steps to prevent violence: security, politics. There's no security, no intel. The massacres are coming back to back, our people are getting killed, Turkey has become a killing paradise, it's turned into a bloodbath, and therefore no one is willing to take on any responsibility, no one is willing to accept the responsibility, the government is constantly trying to put the blame on others. At least try to bring this climate out of the way of violence and slaughter. What is it? To reduce this tension, to social dialogue, to give up the speech of the enemy, to develop democracy, to take measures against those who mean freedom rather than attack freedoms. And when you don't do that, you can divide the country into twos, sometimes fours. This rhetoric, this rhetoric of hostility and tension, revenge and lynching, is tearing the country apart. When you tear the country apart, the outside forces and other forces inside will certainly benefit from it. Just because they're taking advantage doesn't mean your responsibility doesn't go away. In a country with massacres, responsibility is above all political authority. Just as the divided roads, highways, Eurasia tunnels are ours, you are responsible for all the massacres, the killings, all the cases that spoil peace, all the bloodshed of the country. And the most civilized way to answer is for ministers to first resign after a sincere self-criticism, clear information, and then resign. Yeah, well, hopefully, 2017, despite that horrible massacre on New Year's Eve, there'll be a year of peace and peace. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0021par0174	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0022par0176	Mr. President, Mr. Sancar, in his speech, if I'm not mistaken, some AK PARTY people appear on television and the Alevi leaders are being killed.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0023par0177	He didn't say "AK PARTY" or anything.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0024par0178	No, no, that's what he said. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0025par0179	Here you go, for bullying... Excuse me, if there's an explanation, let's take it from Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0026par0181	I said standing nearby, I didn't say the director of the PATI, but I said the one around the PATI. If he wants to answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0027par0182	Then let Mithat Bey fix it. It has nothing to do with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0026par0183	So that's not what I said. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0028par0184	Mr. Bostanci, you have my word for two minutes, under Article 69.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0027par0188	Mr. President, dear friends, while Mr. Sancar was speaking, of course we're following his speech carefully, he said, "AK PARTY", and then he said, "I think it's close." This is a new wave of provocations in relation to the massacre on New Year's Eve, and the leaders of Alevi have made a statement in the form of a target. I strongly deny it. For one thing, the political understanding of the EC PARTY is an approach towards embracing the whole of Turkey and building the future of this country in peace. No provocation, no human-reversing approach is ever related to us. There are people who do this on social media, and there are people who sometimes use statements that go beyond their means on television, but I don't want to think they have anything to do with the AK PARTY or political institutions in legitimate places. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0028par0190	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0029par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0028par0192	Mr. Sancar...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0029par0193	Mr. President, let me make a brief statement.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0028par0194	Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0029par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a lot of literature about the target of the Alekis. It's not just on social media, unfortunately, but on TV channels that don't hide their service to the AKP. Countless TV channels have been shut down. Isn't there some sort of procedure to do with these? Look, Özdemir Özdemir, I don't know what his relationship is with you, I haven't looked into it, but I've read it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0030par0199	He's the president of his own foundation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0029par0200	He says: "Be mindful, if things get messy, Alevi will kill the heads of NGOs in Turkey." Where does he say, gentlemen? It's in A News.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0030par0201	The canal is on the A, the Canal is on the A.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0029par0202	It's on the A.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0030par0203	He is the head of the association founded by the AKP.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0031par0204	We don't.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0032par0205	We don't know him.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0033par0206	Now, well, Mr. President -- I'm calling Naci Bostancı -- about these things, come out and say a word immediately.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0032par0207	He's done it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0033par0208	Did you have an explanation for Sevki Yilmaz? Sevki Yilmaz said: "It is his duty to execute HDP MPs." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's too short...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0034par0211	Finish up, I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0035par0212	Your Izmir MPs know.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0033par0213	So, did you have an explanation for him? Is there a procedure? More than that, those who use words that will never be compared to those who are in prison, who are calling for massacres and executions are not being investigated at all. One last sentence: Mr. Yasin Aktay -- I don't know if he's here -- described the arrest of our friends as consolation. Consolation for Reina is your arrest Yasin? Is this the state of law? Say a word about these things, and then we'll sincerely believe that you're defending social peace. That's what we're ready to do, and we're ready to do anything. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0036par0217	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0037par0218	Thank you, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0038par0219	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0037par0220	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0038par0221	On TV, Ahmet, Mehmet said something.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0039par0222	He's in A News.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0040par0223	We know who A News is, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0041par0224	Just the right news, B news.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0042par0225	We can't go through a political connection and go into a defensive situation like it's connected to us.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0043par0226	With the resources you provide, the resources you provide...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0042par0227	But, in the same way, as Mithat Bey said, I'm saying that the prosecutors are on duty, no matter who's on TV, social media. That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0044par0228	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0045par0229	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words for the record.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0044par0230	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0045par0231	This Channel A TV vomits hate every week, every night. He did a program on CHP and marijuana last week. One of the channels the AKP has fed and raised is the haram media, the pool media. Every night... and last night, the AKP's so-called advocacy Aleki association...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0232	Mr. President, what does that have to do with anything? Mr. President, what does the party have to do with the TV? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0045par0233	...Alevi openly threatens to kill the presidents of the association, he clearly says he can't sit in that chair, you'll all die.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0234	Is that an approach, sir? What does the TV have to do with the party?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0045par0235	For the record, I also condemn these Channel A TV and ally channels, the CHP, the secularism, and the networks that are hostile to humanity.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0236	Mr. President, there's no such procedure, what's going on?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0045par0237	Besides, there's a majority of them in RTÜK...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0047par0239	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0240	There's no such thing, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0048par0241	We reject the comments of Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0242	We refuse.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0048par0243	They're purely speculative and subjective comments.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0046par0244	Yes, it's provocative, sir, it's provocative.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0049par0245	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The speeches are in the transcripts. Third speaker for the groups, Ankara MP Levent Gök on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0050par0253	Mr. President, with very fresh hopes, with our claims to the future, 80 million people living in Turkey on the evening of December 31st have one thought, one desire, 2017 without terrorism. Everyone put their other claims, desires behind their backs, but they wanted one thing: 2017 without terror, one innocent person's life lost, Turkey's suffering, and the bomb that exploded at the first light of the day in Istanbul took away all these hopes, desires, demands. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we just watched the Home Secretary here, and I'm very disappointed. Mr. Secretary here talks about it as if he's talking about something in a school play on a debate committee. What's it about? Just two days ago, 39 people lost their lives in Istanbul, more traumas of the deaths... thank you for the government's information, we've already been demanding, but we're all satisfied, waiting for a convincing, reassuring talk about our future sense of confidence, in a disappointment, here's a speech to fill a bag. Mr. Secretary, that's not how it works, so you have a responsibility. Since you've come, you've been on this stand. I will answer to my nation, my coven. You said, answer to me. You're running away without paying the bill. Yeah, there's no checking in here, guys. The account's empty. Look, Mr. Secretary arrived on August 31st. From August 31st until today, when the Minister was on duty, I don't count the others... and I'll tell you the others: from June 2015 to 2016, 423 of our citizens lost their lives in bombs that exploded in 18 months, nearly 3,000 of our people were injured, 3,000 were killed; 423 were killed. Of these people who lost their lives, 118 are in the Minister's term. He served on 31 August; on 9 October in Hakkari, on 4 November in Diyarbakır, on 24 November in Adana, on 10 December in İstanbul, on 17 December in Kayseri, on 1 January in İstanbul, in the period of the Minister who lost his life with bombs and attacks. Now, Mr. Secretary, we call it the right to live, right to live! I mean, we're going through a period where the right to live as much as possible, as much as possible -- I'm sorry to say -- has become an admissible period in Turkey. Now, before I forget the pain of another bomb, an exploding bomb makes Turkey forget the previous sufferings. It's a painting like this. In a painting like this, there's a question of separating the identities of the dead from where they died. I mean, it's a good thing that thousands of trolls died when everyone should have reacted to the death of those who celebrated the New Year's Eve program. How is this happening? Before New Year's Eve, the announcements, the reaction to Christmas celebrations at the Billboards; aside from all that, the State's official institution, Diyanet-- these are grave mistakes, my dear brothers. Where do all those wars come from? So what would a Christmas celebration bring to Turkey? People take their kids, eat their chicken, eat their rice, eat their nuts, have a good year of the future... Where's the crime in that?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0051par0259	Nothing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0050par0260	There has never been such a painting in Turkey, but this language, the passive language, has made the passive language of power this way, my dear friends. Mr. Secretary, why don't you hold onto him; why don't you stick to the headlines in those newspapers, in the pool media, in those memos? After the incident, it's too late and it's not sincere, it's not convincing. Turkey is in a very rapid polarization, in a very rapid dissolution. It's the ruling party that's supposed to stop it. Now, citizens say there's power in the country, that there's a Security in the country, that they trust. Police Headquarters issued a statement before New Year's Day (July 21). Everyone heard these measures on TV, read them in the newspapers, and said: "Our police, our police, our military are providing security for us. The measures to ensure citizens spend Christmas in peace... what's he saying here? Where the citizens are busy, we've increased our precautions at the entertainment centers. Istanbul is in Ortaköy, where the entertainment center is busiest. How's that? An attacker walks in, shoots without going in, echoes of fire across the shore, we have a police station 250 meters away. It's full of cops, they call it. He's in there for seven minutes, six clips changed, and he just walks away. Mr. Secretary, why don't you tell me this, how is this happening? How can this happen in the most colorful, crowded part of Istanbul, in the entertainment center? Where are your precautions? Those 39 people, the ones who lost their lives, the ones who were injured, they came to you with confidence in the measures you explained. People entered the New Year's celebrations in the faith of the measures you explained, saying that nothing will happen to us today. It's a shame, isn't it? Twenty-seven have come to our country, guests, guests in our country, all lost their lives. There's only one thing you can do, Mr. Secretary, after you've come here, friends, I've taken over the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I've tried my best, but I can't prevent terrorism from happening, I can't prevent innocent people from dying. It's my fault too. I'm resigning with honor. You have to say, that's what you have to do. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The government is always the victim, the victim in every case. So, how do you come up with these things? Is there no consequences to your foreign policy? The crisis of not being able to govern, the crisis of not being able to analyze Turkey and its problems... how do these people come to Turkey, these members of the foreign terrorist organization? There's no record of any of this? It's in Turkey that's waving. Our south is already turned. In a painting like this, the most ruthless organizations in the world are running around. The PKK, on the one hand, isil, is fighting organizations such as the DHKP-C, and the GERP. So, what are we supposed to do? Everyone says that let's be united. So let's be united. And we never compromise on this subject, we say that we will support the government in any way. To prevent terrorism from defeating us, we try to stand firm so that Turkey's future will be brighter so that it doesn't affect our habits, our lifestyle, our secular republic. Deaths come in succession, we say the same words, but there's a man responsible, brother; political power is responsible. Turn on the pool media, like the Republican People's Party is responsible. Mr. Secretary, why are you preventing these publications? Why don't you stop this language that separates Turkey? How can we be together in the face of terror? We're explaining it as the Republican People's Party. Bring it in, as long as we don't limit legal measures, basic rights and freedoms. Say, "We're preventing terrorism with these measures." Say, "Let's withdraw all our talks, let's take legal measures, we're offering it, but if the ruling party doesn't do what it's supposed to do, there's only one thing left, my dear friends. We want the right to live. We want to live freely in Turkey without fear. This longing is expressed by millions of people. Everyone's terrified about tomorrow. On the one hand, let's unite. We call it a merger, but the biggest divisions are made by the government. Constitutional amendment... we're about to discuss AKP's group proposal. If it's not as if these deaths didn't happen in Turkey, as if we weren't fighting the most horrible organizations of terrorism, then the presidential regime; let's work all the days, work all the time when there's no TV; Turkey, who says what, CHP, what the other parties say, what the president says, what the other parties say, if they don't exist. If you're president, it's no matter how many, no matter how many, no matter how many, no matter how many, no matter how As long as my only innocent person has a nosebleed, my dear friends.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0052par0267	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0050par0268	Do not divide Turkey, do not polarize Turkey, withdraw this Constitutional proposal. Let's sit down and talk about terrorism, whatever needs to be done, but first, the Minister has to resign. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0053par0271	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final say belongs to Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0275	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, Levent Bey's speech is the freshest. The Constitution wants us to withdraw the amendment proposal because of terrorism.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0055par0277	Don't make me nervous. I say Mr. Naci Bey.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0056par0278	We want you to pull it all out.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0279	Mr. Levent, as long as political debates are on the ground of civilized negotiation, society will not be nervous about it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0055par0280	We know what happened on the commission.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0281	We're not going to parenthesize them, these political debates, thesis and proposals will surely occur in Turkey. We reject a policy that surrenders to terror in the form of terrorism, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0057par0283	You're twisting Mr. Naci, you're twisting Mr. Levent's words, Mr. President, or you don't understand what Levent Bey meant.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0284	No, we'll also discuss the proposed amendment in the gentle and elegant manner of Engin Altay Bey, Levent Bey. Why should society be nervous as long as we talk like this?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0058par0285	No, you mean I'm out of style?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0286	No, with the contributions of Free Bey and all his friends.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0059par0287	That's what it means.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0288	Why should society be nervous as long as we talk like this? Why would you make any other sense out of this? You tell them it shouldn't be, we tell them it should be, HDP tells them the idea of MHP, and in the end, let our people decide. Each referendum divides the nation by every constitutional amendment proposal. We do not find a correct approach, such as ▪ Every referendum divides the nation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0060par0289	This regime change, Mr. President, is not a normal constitutional amendment. You want to destroy the Republic.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0290	Secondly, yes, Turkey is fighting terrorism. There is a very fundamental task in fighting terrorism, including power, which is on every part of the opposition -- not to surrender to terrorism, not to surrender to terrorism, not to the agenda of terrorism. There's terror. Where you're sitting, don't talk about it, it's misunderstood; don't talk about it, it's misunderstood.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0061par0291	That's how he twists it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0292	We'll live our lives normally. This Parliament will work, people will speak their minds, parties will act according to their schedules, but we'll do everything within the language, style, approach of those legitimate floors.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0062par0293	People are afraid to think, to talk.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0294	Dear friends, I'm sorry for our loss, I'm sorry for the loss of all mankind because terror is a crime of humanity. Being in Istanbul does not eliminate the quality of this being a crime of humanity. Whoever it is, whoever's behind it, they're murderers, murderers. Every sane man, defending every legitimate ground, rejects terror by the back of his hand, resists it, fights its hand, its tongue, its heart. Of course, again, all of this is within the framework of legitimate references... Why is this happening? It was in the 19th century, it was in the past, it was in modern times. Basically, terror comes as a political weapon of the weak, let's not forget that. Those who use terrorism are weak, not powerful. So, what do they do with terror? In fact, they're not targeting those victims. It was not the people who were amused in Reina, it was not the people who were there; it was the fear of them that they wanted to deliver their own bloody message through their bloody bodies, through their image, to a whole community, with the power to compensate for their weakness. Terror depends on the social wave behind its own actions. He hopes that in that society, people will fall into each other, fight each other, blame each other -- we see his example in social media -- but we only see him in that place where there's a mask balloon, and I have to say that a lot of those accounts are fake. As a matter of fact, that's what happens in law enforcement.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0063par0297	They're your trolls, Mr. President, EC trolls.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0298	I don't see them as the real representation of society, and that's what law enforcement says. Go to Anatolia, sit down with people, talk to people, work those social fault lines that terror hopes for, and you can't see people turning on each other in Anatolia. You don't see a religious or ethnic fundamental conflict, a tension, a fight under the usual circumstances. But such actions actually want to provoke the people who exist in society and who have learned the ways and ways of living together in a civilized way, and who have learned the ways and ways of living together in time, and someone wants to scratch these places, hoping that this provocation will result. Now, we know that the work is a provocatory by terror, but on the other hand, staying away from debates, evaluations, approaches that will give them the hope of provocation as if there was a proper social atmosphere. This New Year's Eve thing... there's a New Year's debate going on over the Reina massacre. In our society, there's been an incredible debate about this since the past. I remember, in the 1980s, when it was twelve o'clock at night on television, you know, it took days for people to argue about whether or not a dancer would come out, and people would argue about it incredibly. Now, you have to accept that these things exist once in a while. People can argue, they can talk about it, but it's our job to point out that if there's people who talk about it and argue about it, who have different opinions, who have different approaches, who despise people, who despise them, who use the language of anger and hate against them, if there are environments, if there's a problem here; it's our job to warn them, make sure that they're taking the role that terrorists hope to run the social fault lines. No matter who it is, no matter what it's called, if the environments that give terrorists such hope, the environments that give them the feeling that they can run these social fault lines, there's an angry debate going on -- and we see examples of this at times -- it's absolutely everyone's job to reject them, to have a go at them. Dear friends, we come from a great empire tradition, we have built a nation state, we have created a sari culture for many years. Looking back, we've been having a lot of discussions about modernity, about conservativeity, about nationality; there are political, intellectual representations of this, but these are the arguments that ultimately flow towards this country's common destiny and its future existence. When I look at the Turkish people, when I look at the politics in Turkey, when I look at their representatives in legitimate places, I don't see an environment where terrorism will have a provocation that they hope for. Of course, power will do its job, security, intelligence and so forth in order to prevent terrorism, but trust me, it's not just about power. We're all referring to these issues of power when it comes to it, the famous Foucault, who's working on it, says that power doesn't gather in one place, it actually exists in very different places. There is also a power in CHP, there is a power in HDP, there is a power in DP, there is a power in social institutions and associations and foundations, all of which represent social and political powers on certain scales. Therefore, every focus of power, in absolutes, when fighting against terrorism, must be what the community will say on behalf of the brotherhood and peace of society, giving terrorists opportunity and opportunity, yes, we're weak, but when we do this bloody act, we can turn people against each other. It's very important that they avoid any explanation, any approach, any position of power. When you see the unity of the ranks against terror, the politics standing on a common side against terrorism is the most beautiful response to terrorism, and the terror that is weak-rooted, trying to gain power by its actions will act with an understanding of the commonity of the people, the partnership of politics, that such actions will not be worth money. It's an answer, the power will answer, the diplomacy will answer, but it's also an answer to the common people's partnership and to stand together against terror.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0064par0306	I'll turn on your microphone, complete.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0054par0307	Mr. President, I'm calling the law against these people, the prosecutors, the prosecutors for our nation's unity and future. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0064par0310	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Bostanist occasionally contributes intellectually to his assessments, and with a quote from Faucault, he made an assessment of micro-power areas. That's right. Faucault, in particular in his book The Eye of power, says that even in individual relationships, even in two human relationships, there is a relationship of power, and in all his books or his assessments of power, he does the resolution of this power. That's what I'd like to contribute on this occasion. Mr. Sky, after my explanation, I don't suppose you'll be asking for words. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0065par0314	Mr. President, really, you've made a satisfactory statement, thank you, but in my speech, at the beginning of Mr. Naci Bostanci, when he's a terrorist, there's no further discussion in the House. An assessment of him is completely out of my mind.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0064par0315	Here you are, Mr. Sky. I give you my word for two minutes according to Article 69. Please don't let me pick on you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0065par0319	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, they all know who's saying what and what they're doing here. We were all here on the night of July 15th. Bombs were falling, and we opened this coven under the bombs and activated it. Our goal is to allow parliamentary democracy to work and work. What was the point of the announcement here that day? It was referred to the power of parliamentary democracy, and starting the following days, we told our AKP members: let's never vacation, let's work; let's show that we stand upright in the face of terror, so that everyone can see that the Assembly is working. In the interest of the public, in the interest of the public, let's make all kinds of laws here. We, the Republican People's Party, are ready for this. We said, "Friends, just as long as it works." But we saw a different table, the debates in the Constitutional Commission. What am I saying, what are we, the Republican People's Party? The debates on the commission will spread through the entire community. On the one hand, the PKK is watching us, the ISIS, the other organizations are watching us; they're separated from one side, they're weakened so we can convict Turkey with acts of terror. This is an historic warning. What we're saying is that we stand back from all the areas of debate that create tension in society, which creates polarization. He's right, he's right, he's right, and when we stand beyond that, we can succeed in these challenges. Otherwise, in every case that creates vulnerability in society, in every law, terrorist organizations will rub their hands against the separation of this society. That's what we're trying to prevent, my dear friends. That's what we're trying to do. What we're trying to do, in a sense of historical responsibility, is that our Parliament passes laws on the side of the people, passes laws on the side of the public, stays out of the debate zones, and all political parties stand firm against any terrorist organization, that's what we're trying to do. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0066par0323	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Members of parliament, talks are adjourned according to the second joke of Article 59 of the Interior Charter. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. As you know, in each combination, we promise 15 congressmen a minute. However, since today is the first merger of 2017, I will promise 30 members of parliament today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, my speech at the beginning of the merger didn't even get this much applause. Now, I'm starting the promise process. First speech, first say belongs to Mr. Honorary Nameful. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0067par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. These are the people who are trying to oppress us with their massacres. That's it, that's it. From now on, we will not allow any ISIS in our neighborhoods, nor any reactionary, jihadist gang. There's a flag that needs to be raised in the face of regression. This flag is called the secular flag. Today, secularism means freedom, brotherhood, a human struggle for life. We call on everyone to be the guardians of this struggle. We're calling in reactionaries, fascists, presidential lovers. I'm calling from here to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which aims at young people who advocate secularism. I sign this declaration, which, as a member of this country, is not about regression, but about secularism, not about jihadists, but about innocent, murdered people. If you can afford it, come and get us. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0068par0339	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0069par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. In the early years of the new year, I condemn the treacherous terrorist attack, which targets different lifestyles, secularism, unity, and integrity of our country, and respect all our citizens who have lost their lives, and all the other citizens who are guests in our country. We are in the final phase in which we have lost the rule of secularism by attacking different lifestyles, as well as the destruction of our basic values, such as the rule of law, the separation of forces, the independence of the judiciary, the independence of thought and freedom of expression, during the rule of power that has ruled this country for 14 years. We expect the government, which has ruled this country alone for 14 years, to question itself, to make self-criticism and to answer. However, the government's only agenda, its goal, its goal, is to drive this country into a dictatorship with a constitutional amendment, which is irresponsiblely blocking its ears. Again, instead of discussing this constitutional amendment proposal, let's fight in common by prioritizing our people's rights, security, and peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0070par0345	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0071par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish 2017 was a year when tears and blood would stop all over the world, war and terror would end, while in the early years of the new year, I curse those who committed the treacherous act of terror that showed their face in Istanbul and the evil forces behind them in the most violent way. I wish God's mercy and my condolences to all those who lost their lives, and to Burak Yildiz, my citizen of Mersin, who was killed in the attack. Again, in the last days of 2016, a major flood occurred in my constituency, Mersin, causing loss of life and property. I pray to God, and to his kinsmen, who have died in the flood. I offer my condolences to our damaged tradesman, to our farmers, and to all our people. As it is known, January 3rd is the 95th anniversary of Mersin's deliverance from enemy occupation. I'm celebrating the day of salvation for all the people of Mersin. On this occasion, I remember all our martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0072par0351	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0073par0353	Mr. President, first of all, I curse terror, I wish for peace and democracy for my country. What I want to know is, if anyone knows the answer - what diet is this? The return of Pakistan on November 20, 2016, Mr. President, is delaying us from the European Union. Don't worry, Shanghai Union is a commercial alternative. But on December 15, 2016, Mr. Minister of Economy says: "The Shanghay Five and their formations cannot be a commercial alternative to the European Union." I wonder now, who is on diet, who is on pickles? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0074par0357	Dear Crazy Eyes...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0075par0359	Mr. President, on New Year's Eve in Istanbul, I condemn the attack on the families and countries of those who lost their lives as a result of an armed attack in the nightclub. Russian Ambassador Karlov was killed the day before Turkey and Russia's meeting on energy. Again, the vile attack in Istanbul was carried out a day before Russia and Turkey's ceasefire in Syria was discussed at the United Nations Security Council. The DEA has claimed responsibility for this attack and has cited the operation of the Firat Shield. It appears that the PKK, DEAŞ, and Ankara were once again led by the same superior mind. All our citizens, regardless of their lifestyle, are guaranteed by our government. I invite our citizens not to be played, to be united, to be discreet and discreet.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0074par0361	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0076par0363	Mr. President, it's Thursday, December 29, 2016, 04 a.m. There is no electricity in the east of Istanbul and in the west of Kopeeli, and there is no telling when it will come. We have around 16 organised industrial areas in the Gebze region, and hundreds of manufacturers are in the area. The workers are standing by the machine and can't produce. A number of workers have already been given permission. It's over 300 million euros missing. If this goes on, and we don't know when the electricity will come, it could be considered that our loss will increase even more. Again, electricity has not been released for six days in the Upper Hereke region of Alexei, in a region inhabited by 13,000 people. When you look up here, it's clearly not only electricity in the Upper Hereke area, but it's clear that the municipality does not provide adequate service. There aren't even candles left in the grocery stores. We brought natural gas to people. Those who gave the good news took away their ability to warm themselves with that natural gas by cutting off their electricity. In the 21st century, we see together in Turkey, where they call it New Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0074par0366	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0077par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the terrorist attack on our people in Istanbul who only want to have a good time with their family and friends, and I pray to God for mercy and immediate healing for those who have lost their lives. Unfortunately, the first leaf of the calendar has blood on it. Inflammatory news, pamphlets, and banners of people attending the celebrations before Christmas have been a threat to people's way of life. I'm afraid we've seen the same kind of banner hung in my constituency, the Kopeli Cartepe district. This bigoted climate of religious terrorism must be stopped immediately. Those who make these signs, those who make them, those who make them, those who curse the New Year's celebration, those who give them a fatwa, and those who do not feel sorry for death by saying, "What is Christmas?" Will the authorities, who arrested hundreds of people for terror propaganda, also arrest those who made these banners and ordered them? Those who create their enemy within the land with their own hands, those who feed their feelings of hostility, must be punished for what they deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0078par0372	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0079par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Electricity is out in various districts of Istanbul, both patients are victims and employers and citizens are victims. When will the political power end this sacrifice? Also, the writers of the Cumhuriyet daily have been under arrest for 60 days now. Just a week ago, the paper's tea man was taken into custody. Ahmet Şık, who has not given up his upright stance, has been under arrest since December 30th, and Hosni Mahalli is under arrest and political power has either detained or arrested opponents with all sorts of excuses or tried to frighten them. Where was the intelligence that worked so well or the MIT on New Year's Eve? As ISIS militants are organized across the country, every effort is made to silence the free press. Why don't they do their best to silence the free press to suppress and silence ISIS terror organizations and other organisations? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0080par0378	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0081par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. It is understood that the government intends to extend its state of emergency for another three months. We see that the real reason for the State of Emergency declared because of the coup attempt was not to fight terrorism, but to implement the AKP's secret agenda. This secret agenda, the presidential dream, is off the public's agenda. The AKP, which is normally unable to impose the presidential system on the public, is hiding behind the State of Emergency and doing asymmetric propaganda. However, the AKP ignores the asymmetric intelligence and asymmetric wisdom of our MPs and our people. Every time you saw me and my beard, I grew a beard to make you ashamed and protest because you declared the State of Emergency. Apparently, the shame is already gone. But our House and our people will never give a pass to those who are eager to rule one man. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0082par0383	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0083par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. Sadly, in the early hours of 2017, when we entered with great hope, our country was again covered in blood, and 39 young people were slaughtered. I'd like to ask the government: Who is responsible for this ongoing violence and terrorism since July 20, 2015? Is there only one civil servant who resigns? Is Mr. Home Secretary, who we're used to seeing after every terrorist incident, considering resigning instead of giving a lecture? Is there a minister of interior who goes on duty every day without resigning in a democratic country where dozens of people have lost their lives? We're wondering what the Police Department of this country does for the National Intelligence Agency. Mr. Prime Minister, what have you done about public officials who have been targeting Christmas celebrations for days, exploiting beliefs, committing hate crimes? Is there only one investigation the government has launched, or do you intend to open it? Do you plan to step down as soon as possible by doing a favor to this country that you cannot govern as a government? Explain to me why you turned off the only channel in the Alekis.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0084par0389	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0085par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to our citizens, to our citizens and guests who died in Istanbul because of a traitorous attack, and to the wounded, and my condolences to their relatives. We just heard from Mr. Home Secretary here. We were expecting a very important statement from Mr. Home Secretary, and we need to stress that we're very disappointed. It's a terror. As long as we don't figure out why, and we don't find a solution, terror will continue. However, while we would like to discuss the reasons and reasons for terrorism here and listen to their proposals, unfortunately, we have learned nothing from Mr. Secretary but statistical information. As long as we don't get rid of the sense and expression, as long as we don't leave ISIS support inside and outside, I'm afraid our country will have more scenes of this kind of terrorism. The government should give up its attitude and behavior, especially the supporter of ISIS.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0086par0397	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0087par0399	The point of 14 years of AKP power has brought our country into our country, in its own words, is that our country and the integrity of our nation are threatened by the future of our children. In such cases, we need to remember the expression "Ataturk." Ataturk says: "You cannot win any war unless you have the unity of all national forces on the inner front. My dear brothers, the mission belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The mission is to unite in the secular republic, in the democratic state of law, and in the mind of Ataturk. To rule this parliamentary democracy and make sure that it is a day of unity; tomorrow may be too late, now, now, now. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0088par0402	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0089par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. No one can accuse another of having perceived Islam the way he understood it and not living it. The understanding that makes everyone who isn't one of them turn out to be a dagger in the heart of the Islamic world. No strategy is more valuable than preventing human blood from being spilled. In history, we've lost the civilisations of Indulus and Maveraunnehir and the Ottoman State-i Aliyye, and now, where should it come to? The blood that flows is not asked the color of blood; blood is brother's blood, it is human blood. We can't put out the fire by blaming each other. Come on, let's not let the seeds of trial grow any further on our land. Instead of scratching the separatist ones, let's embrace the unifying value and the fundamentals. Our peace and our future depend on it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0090par0407	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0091par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm conveying my wish to our country in 2017 and to the world to bring health, peace, and peace. We've left behind a year of great suffering, tears and suffering. In the early hours of 2017, when we wanted to enter with new hopes, 39 of our people, a young policeman, were brutally murdered. First, I wish the dead mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: Is the Undersecretary of MIT, the Home Secretary and your intelligence just to follow the opposition? Who's going to take responsibility for all this? How long will you continue to offer your condolences? What will you say about the fact that you have failed to manage Turkey and that you have not been able to secure anyone's life? Are you going to activate the resignation mechanism? What are you going to do about the institution, the association, and the people who have made our innocent people targets with their explanations? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0092par0414	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0093par0416	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn and curse the incident in Istanbul, as is the case with all the terrors. I sincerely wish it would never happen again. The flood in Giresun on 21 September 2016 has resulted in more than $1m in financial damage in our businesses, which are in our districts of Eyesle and Eynesil. After the disaster, I've moved to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda on the immediate work of resolving the economic losses of our trades. The question has not been answered, but we also regret to see that the damage has not been repaired. I would like to submit once again to the government and the relevant minister's information that the damage caused by this flood should be assessed and compensated for the disaster. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0094par0420	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0095par0422	Mr. President, it's not enough that we're divided over the Turkish, Kurdish, Alevi, Sunni, AKP, which is not, but now we're divided over the Christmas party. As the government has not made a sound to the climate of hatred created by their lifestyles for days, the Ministry of Religious Affairs has fueled this hostility through Friday's sermon. The hatred created by their lifestyle has been so great that after the Reina massacre, social media massacres have become unstoppable. It's very painful. This land has never been so full of hate. This is your work. The power, which could not catch the killer and did nothing to those who fueled this hatred, has taken and arrested people from their homes in the morning, as if they were terrorists, who criticised ISIS by the emphasis on secularism. Since when has defending secularism become a crime? End bigoted rhetoric about people's lifestyle, culture, art, and artists. Act responsible now, stop pointing fingers. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0096par0426	Mr. Burcu Koksal...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0097par0428	Mr. President, first of all, to those who have lost their lives in the attack in Istanbul, I ask God's mercy, urgent healing for the wounded, and I curse all forms of terror. In the District of Bolvadin, Afyonkarahisar Province, my constituency has recently reached the most extreme stage of petty animal theft. What is the reason that there are more complaints about this, that the theft continues, that the security forces are not necessary and that there are many cameras on the route, but there are still no camera analysis? Again, the tender for the subcontractor at the alkaloid plant in Bolvadin district was cancelled after July 15th, and 40 employees working with this company's channel were fired. After that, when they meet with the assistant head of the Department of Earth crop office, it is stated that they will be told that they are a burden and will not be given jobs again. The workers who weren't burdened before the 15th of July are now considered a burden?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0098par0432	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0099par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. About 245 thousand people have been able to stay behind the computer until morning, but the non-interest-free credit results of the KOSGEB (KOSGEB), which only 15,000 people are entitled to receive. However, according to what criteria the loan was given, the public was not told enough. For this reason, the majority of the society has claimed that the loan was given to the government-closed entity. I'm asking the Minister: Will you explain to him the criteria for the 15,000 businesses that are entitled to the loan, which sectors it's given to, who's taking the loan, and who's taking the county distributions? Is there a measure that the tradesmen who apply for the next loan application will not have the same problems as the COSGEB systems? I'm always telling you, a loan to a tradesman is no good alone. Try to increase the income of the worker, the pensioner, the farmer, and then the trade will win.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0100par0438	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0101par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the new year would be a blessing to our nation. I also curse those who have done and supported all the acts of terror that have occurred in our country. I wish for peace, brotherhood, democracy, freedom to flourish again in our country. The only solution to terrorism is to maintain and maintain the secular, democratic, social, legal state.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0102par0443	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0103par0445	Mr. President, first of all, I curse the terror that took place in Ortaköy on New Year's Eve in Istanbul, and I condemn it with violence and hatred. I pray to God for the mercy of 39 of us who have lost their lives on this occasion, and for those who have been injured, and for the speedy healing of those who have been injured. Also, I wish to celebrate the new year of all my fellow trustees, a year of health, happiness, peace, and peace of mind in 2017. My question to the Prime Minister: Since your political power took over, terrorist incidents continue to increase, even though you promised to end the terrorist incidents. When do you intend to end the terrors in our country? When will our country's trust and stability arrive? If you can't end terrorism and reassure our citizens, do you intend to resign your commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0104par0449	Mr. Tarhan... Dear Müslüm Doğan...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0105par0452	Mr. President, two different groups -- and these are our party members -- are being held in custody for a group of nine months, another group of 11 months, some of whom are under arrest, some of whom still haven't been brought to trial. Isn't it considered that our friends are a family man, they have a social environment, they have a social life? I demand that these party members be brought before the court immediately to their freedom. I would also like to ask that 12 of our MPs, including our co-chairs, who have been under arrest for sixty days, be required to participate in law enforcement activities.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0104par0454	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0106par0456	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I wish that 2017 would be the cause of peace, freedom, a fair and equal life. This is especially in Istanbul, in an environment where society is polarized daily in social media, with different identities being used as AKP's trumpeting, debated on various television channels, where society is polarized every day, divided against each other every day, you know, 39 citizens have been slaughtered in the massacre in Reina. I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, to answer the question: Mr. President, four young people have been taken into custody in Gaziantep on the grounds that an ISIS militant was involved in an assassination plot. How was it determined that this plot was to be carried out, that he was ISIS? If he's ISIS, why hasn't he been arrested yet? And the evidence of the assassination...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0107par0461	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0108par0463	Thank you, Mr. President. To those who lost their lives in the terrorist attack in Istanbul, I wish God's mercy and patience and condolences to his relatives, and to the wounded, I pray for immediate healing. ▪ These are the people who are trying to oppress us with their massacres. That's enough! That's it! From now on, we will not allow ISIS in our neighborhoods, nor any jihadist or reactionary gang. There's a flag that needs to be raised in the face of regression, and it's called the secular flag. Today, secularism means freedom, brotherhood, a human struggle for life. We invite everyone to be the guardians of this struggle; we call on the reactionaries, the fascists, the presidential lovers to answer. The children have been taken into custody because they say. I'm calling on the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which targets young people who advocate secularism: I'm not a member of this country, I'm celebrating secularism; I'm standing next to murderers, not jihadists, but innocent people who are being slaughtered, and I'm celebrating young people who are being secularized.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0109par0467	Mr. Nurettin Demir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0110par0469	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you a peaceful, happy, fertile, non-terrorism year. For those who have lost their lives in the acts of terror, I ask God's mercy, his condolences, his patience. Our people are tired of the terrors, the deaths. Sadness, despair, fear settled. Like a chronic chronic disease, the whole community is surrounded. Despite the State of Emergency, the terrors -- I'm telling you -- do not stop, do not stop, do not end -- despite a powerful MIT (MIT) and the Ministry of Interior. MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan couldn't predict or prevent more than 200 terrorist incidents, and he's still on duty. TV programmer Müge Anlı lit up 54 unsolved cases and found more than 740 people missing. My suggestion is to the government. Undersecretary of MIT, why is the Home Secretary still in office? Don't they consider appointing Müge Anlı as Undersecretary of MIT?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0111par0472	Mr. Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0112par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I pray that the year 2017 will bring blessings to our country and our nation. Although the attack at an amusement centre in Istanbul in the early part of the new year resulted in the deaths of civilians, the attack is actually aimed at the unity of our state and nation. This act of terrorism is part of the series of acts of armed terrorist organizations such as PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C. Whether it's against an entertainment center or against a temple, the aim of all acts of terror is to disrupt Turkey's unity and unity. However, this act of terrorism will not reach its goal, as did dozens of others so far against Turkey. In these difficult times, with the fact that our Turkey needs unification and not dissolution, I invite everyone to avoid rhetoric that serves the purpose of terrorism. Killing a human being...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0113par0478	Mr. Constant...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0114par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn the traitorous, vile attack in Reina, Istanbul. For those who have lost their lives, I pray for the mercy of the Lord God, and for the healing of the wounded. Our fight against terrorism will go on until the end. The terrorist organizations organized by the upper mind, the DAEŞ (IND), will continue to fight them all. We are determined to fight these things, but our unity and unity in this struggle is very important. In the fight against terrorism, the antidote is that we become one, that we are together, that we all have the awareness that this will be overcome by the nation. I wish, by God, that there is a year in which we will overcome all adversity with common sense.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0115par0484	Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0116par0486	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the terrorist attack on Reina's nightclub at the first hour of the new year is unlike anything that has ever been committed. An armed terrorist crosses the most protected areas of Istanbul, slaughters 39 people with a rifle, fires four clips for seven minutes, and then leaves with the time to change. Shouldn't the police officer who's been watching this scene at least give up the position of the Istanbul County Police Commissioner? I condemn the environments that have almost provoked this attack by interfering with our people's way of life. The message from our religious work on Friday at the border and its message after the attack is a complete discrepancy. I'd like to invite the head of the religious affairs, Mehmet Gormez, to my sanity. I curse the attacks on your secular lifestyle in social media. I ask Turkish justice, leave innocent journalists to social media terrorists...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0117par0490	Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0118par0492	Mr. President, we, most of this community, are not happy with developments; we are restless, insecure, we cannot see the future, we don't want to live like this. We who share this land want a country where we can live in peace and peace; we don't want war, we don't want martyrs, we don't want our children to die. We don't want to be divided into hostile fronts, lose our brotherhood, our partnership. We all want to live our beliefs, our religion, our culture, freely, equally. We are people, conscientious, good people; do not provoke us, do not separate us with words of hatred and hatred, do not incline us to blood and death.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0117par0493	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0119par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know, I didn't give this AKP government a vote of confidence. And as of today, I'm seeing what a good decision I've made, and I haven't changed my mind today. So far, these AKP governments have something in common. Unfortunately, that's where we are. Mr. Interior Minister is Turkey's most-spoken politician since Mr. President. I'd like to suggest to him that if he'd spent half his time fighting terrorism, believe me, there wouldn't have been at least half of what happened until today. In democratic countries, you know that politicians who are responsible do what they have to do. If half of these events were in Japan, the Japanese Home Secretary would have resigned 10 times today. Mr. Secretary, I invite you to act like an honorable statesman and resign. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0120par0501	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0121par0503	My dear President, my dear paralegal friends, I'd like to express my thoughts on public homes. People's homes were founded in 1932 for secularism and the establishment and organisation of a modern society. It's been eighty-four years. The purpose of this association is to maintain secularism. There is no real understanding of the attack on our young people who are acting in order to protect secularism. In particular, in social media and in reactionary media, the targeting of the current President, Attorney Oya Ersoy, also points to great danger of his arrest. If faced with an unjust, unlawful arrest, our concern for the higher mind will become clearer. I just want to wish for the New Year that we have the right to live, the right to live, the right of the people to live.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0122par0506	Mr. Filter...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0123par0508	I wish that 2017 would bring blessings for our country and our nation. In the early years of the new year, I curse a terrorist attack on our nation. I also condemn those who serve terrorism by trying to divide the nation through this terrorist attack. For years in this geography, different beliefs, different religions, different cultures, different lifestyles have lived in peace and peace, and they will continue to live. He believes that the proposed constitutional amendment, which brought a new management system, will be adopted by votes of the republic's foundation, and that we will move further along the path to strong Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0122par0510	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0124par0512	Mr. President, due to a change in Customs Law 6455's 20th Amendment, he has been victimised today along with the families of approximately 1,000 oil stations owners. The amendment is temporarily closed until the decision or court order is finalized that there is no room for prosecution of companies who have sold fuel or sold illegal fuel in violation of the rules set by the rules set in the period of the rent. During that time, no other real or legal person is licensed for the facility, and the license holder is also fined for administrative fines. The owner can't get a license without paying the fine, so the landlord is being punished for the crime his tenant committed. Considering that there are about 10 people working in each one, he has been victimized along with the families of about 10,000 employees in nearly 1,000 businesses. A new arrangement must be made for the end of this injustice.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0122par0514	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0125par0516	Thank you, Mr. President. In the early hours of 2017, which we wanted to enter with great hope, I also curse the treacherous terror that we experienced. No matter where it is in the world and who it's done by, there must be the most violent struggle against the terror that sheds innocent people's blood. We see that since the PKK has not separated the PKK, ISISi,, ا, religious, conservative, secular, Alevi, Sunni, Kurd, Turk, and has targeted our entire nation, we must be united in the fight against terrorism as a nation, but as a whole, I wish that we would return as soon as possible from a number of explanations that motivate terrorism, trying to ensure legitimacy to terrorists, and the actions of the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0126par0520	Thank you, Mr. Köse. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The United Nations Convention on Desertization (UNCCD) 12th and 23rd in Ankara on October 2015, hosted by our country. The chairman of the Parliamentary Forum (COP), one of the regular forums of the Conference of Parties, has been assumed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and is expected to be run by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the next two years, and the Parliamentary Forum Guidance Committee will meet each year at the call of the President and will support decisions made during COP 12. For reasons referred to as 18,08.2016, 1 president and 5 MPs (4.1.1) have been established as members of the Anti-Secondition Work Group (TBMM) for the reasons referred to as 1808.2016 and 8 MPs (5,2,1.1). The number of members of the study group in question has been increased by 28.3.1990 and the information of the General Assembly of Turkey's 1st Article (c) and the names reported by political party groups as required by Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law (c) on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (3620). Name and Last Name Selection Environment Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu İzmir MP It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 16 November 1972, the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture adopted the Convention on the Protection of the Cultural and Natural Mira of the World in order to introduce to the world cultural and natural values that are considered the common heritage of humanity, to create awareness of the universal heritage in society, and to ensure the cooperation needed to preserve cultural and natural values that have been destroyed or destroyed for various reasons. The cultural and natural assets of all the countries of the world have taken a historic step to protect and transfer them to future generations on an international platform, and are protected by the understanding that "the loss of one's human memory is the loss of all human memory," which has been revealed by different cultures and civilizations throughout human history, giving light to the different phases, phases, phases of the common past, wealth and difference. The protection of the Sevenkule Bostans, also part of the Istanbul Historical Peninsula Management Plan, which was adopted by UNESCO, the IBBB and the relevant ministries in 2011, should be essential. With scientific understanding, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, in order to reevaluate the work of the Yethkule Bostans and its environment. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] 5) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Sivas]] Istanbul must be protected from urban studies such as "generation," "displacement," "collecting" and "economic value enhancement" under the name "substantive and rapid transformation" The Yekkule district is one of the most effective areas to contribute to the situation, both with dungeons and walls and bostans. From Ayvansaray to Yedikule, the moats along the historic black walls were carrying out various functions for the city's defence and agricultural production, along with the wall of the Ottoman era. Ditches are an area of agricultural production, an important quality of Ottoman cities. The bostians in the ditch between Silivrikap and Yedikule are the last examples we know of this quality. The well, including the water cabinet, the empty chamber, the fruit trees, and the nursery, has found a detailed place in the Ottoman record. Throughout history, there has been no effective construction around the walls, usually in the area of bostan, garden, or green. The Sevenkule Bostans, one of the most important parts of the city that met its vegetable needs during the Byzantine period, are currently in existence as several. These rare agricultural areas, which remain within the city, have managed to come to this day. Created with advanced technology, labor and systematic intelligence, bostians should be organized with a scientific sense of planning, designed with the same precision and attention, on a macro scale, and all the components of the city are calculated. The character of the field can be maintained without decay, and projects offering new urban use to both the Yedikule and Istanbul can be developed with public use that it will reveal by maintaining its identity through a participant process. Urban agriculture has been an essential part of Istanbul's historic development and an important opportunity for the urban community to maintain sustainable urban landscape and viability. In a sense, it is the duty of all people who are aware of architecture, archeology, historians, and, in a sense, of being urban so that future generations can see the Peninsula with their cultural values. According to sources, understanding the spatial and historical characteristics of the Sevenkule Bostians, which has been an urban agriculture area for more than 1,500 years, is essentially a concept that reminds the inhabitants of the city that they are urban. Our architecture, our cultural and historical beings, our city identity, our memory, our green, actually our lives. The historical heritage must be protected and represented with all its temporal, cultural and natural layers, including today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A project was launched by the Ministry of National Education in 2010, which covers all of the educational institutions of knitting under the Proliferation of Opportunity and Technology Development Movement (FATHIH Project). In 2010, the Ministry of National Education announced that the project would be completed in 2014. The project will then be completed in 2015, then in 2017, and then in 2015-2019 MEB Strategic Plan 2018. By 21/10/2015, only 14.33 per cent of the FATIH Project has been completed. In addition, information on the project has been found in the press that many irregular jobs have been done, some of their phases have been moved to the judiciary, some of the investigations have been launched, and some of the investigators have been trying to shut it down on purpose. For these reasons, the Constitution requires the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of Articles 98 and TBM. 15/01/2016 [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] The Movement for Increased Opportunities and Development of Technology (FATIH Project) was launched in 2010 by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The promotions provided by the Ministry of National Education include information that the FATIH Project will lead to a breakthrough in our educational system, that education will contribute greatly to the quality of education, that students in the study of the project will not be distributed books, that all courses will be conducted on tablets. A total budget of $8.5 billion is earmarked for the project. Until 21/10/2015, the project has spent $4449,478.55 euros on hardware and infrastructure services, 512 million 173,855 euros on tablets. The project is earmarked for $1 billion for 2015. The National Ministry of Education FATHIH Project has been implemented in schools where interactive boards and tablets contribute to education and results have been reached. It is also known that as part of the FATIH Project, the schools' field network is not being done in accordance with infrastructure, that non-technical materials are being used, that planning cannot be done, that interactive boards and tablets cannot be connected. In addition, as part of the FATHIH Project, it is spoken by all public opinion that there are different structures inside the Ministry and outside the Ministry, that follow the tender processes of these structures, that some of the events involved are being brought to justice. The end date of the FATIH Project (FATIH) must be permanently postponed, the closure of investigations on grounds of irregularity and corruption by investigators, the construction of the field networks in a way that could damage the state, the lack of interactive boards to communicate with tablets, the problems that have occurred in the tender process of murder. For these reasons, a parliamentary research commission must be established in order to investigate and identify the practices and decisions of institutional structures related to the FATH Project, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, and the aspects related to other public and private institutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The debate on nuclear power plants has been going on for many years. The accident at Fukushima Nuclear Plant in Japan in 2011 and the 1986 Chernobyl disaster are concrete examples of the risks carried by nuclear power plants. The recent accidents in France, the United States, Sweden and Japan have been halted in close proximity to catastrophes. These examples show that new Fukushima and Chernobyl-like accidents are possible if they insist on building a nuclear plant with still unresolved problems. In a country that can't intervene in the simplest mining accident, where it's lost underground miners for days, the consequences and destruction of the nuclear accident will be much greater. Turkey is one of the world's most likely clean and domestic energy sources. Even the Department of Energy and Natural Resources' own data shows that we have more than three times the local energy we consumed in 2014. Despite our country's high potential for clean energy sources, the International Atomic Energy Agency, which insisted on nuclear energy, presented a report on the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant in November 2013, which included 39 different issues. This report is being withheld from the public. Knowing the contents of this report is the most sacred right of all our citizens to take risks because of the nuclear power plant's operation and its waste. For all these reasons, in order to determine the risks the nuclear power plant will create, the efficient use of clean and domestic energy sources, and the creation of renewable and sustainable energy policies, we would like to ask for the opening of Parliamental research, as required by Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. With all due respect. 1) Aylin Nazlı Aka [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Slap]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Energy is the head of important and strategic sectors in the world and in our country. Turkey, one of the number-one countries in the world on the potential of clean energy sources, has become a bit more dependent on energy every year, as it enters a difficult period of privatisations and energy. Turkey imports 67 per cent of its energy in 2000, while it rose to 75 per cent in 2014 with a seven-point increase. In 2002, our energy import bill, which was $9.2 billion, increased by 6 times in 12 years, increased by $55 billion in energy consumption and low oil prices. In 1990-2012, our energy demand increased by 129%, while our energy imports increased by 220 percent. Our local resources, however, have the potential to produce at least three times the amount of electricity consumed by about 260 billion kilowatts in 2015. This potential is thrown out due to faulty and external-dependent policies. With the shoreline of 3,500km, the coasts of Marmara and the Aegean in particular are under constant and steady wind. Our country is among the lucky countries for solar energy. Germany's power in solar energy is 35,948 megawatts, Italy's 17.600 megawatts, Greece's 2,579 megawatts, and Turkey's solar power is 23.8 megawatts. In the wind, Germany produces 34,316 megawatts, Italy 8.448 megawatts, Greece 1,065 megawatts, and Turkey produces 2,760 megawatts of solar energy by the end of 2013. These figures show that clean energy sources are not being used in Turkey. The construction of the planned nuclear plant in Akkuyu, located within the province of Mersin, is under way. The construction of this plant has reached a critical point when the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has issued a positive decision for the CED report. The coming point must be reviewed in many ways with a critical eye. With the contribution of the Turkish Medical Association, the Akkuyu CED Report has been reviewed and marked. In this study, the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant CED Report contains serious problems, shortcomings and errors in many aspects of public health. This problem, with mistakes and shortcomings, will mean that the operation of a nuclear plant will lead to disaster for public health." Our country's competent scientists argue that Akkuyu's choice of location is wrong and poses a major threat, not only because of the Ecemis fault, which stretches closer to Akkuyu, but because of another set of tectonic risks. Turkey is one of the world's highest potential for clean energy. The future of our country is to establish a commission to investigate the risks the nuclear power plant will pose in construction, business and waste management processes, to create policies that will enable the more efficient use of clean energy sources, to create renewable and sustainable energy policies, to investigate the risks that the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant will create. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Altay, you have a request. I'll turn on your mic, please.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0127par0721	We missed the part before the day, but I'll ask for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0126par0722	Here you go, Mr. Altay. I'll open your mic for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0127par0725	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, despite the government's unpredictability, incompetence and reluctance, we stand by our security forces fighting terrorism. May God give them strength and let them know that we are all behind our security forces in the nation. However, Mr. President, as with every institution, we are also dealing with authorities who have not been identified by institutional discipline or belonging to the law enforcement agency, which will cloud the reputation of the institution. As a last example of this, unfortunately, the Republican People's Party, who wanted to go to the scene on January 1st to express respect and gratitude for our fallen martyrs and to leave a flower for our president and his deputies, Murat Karakaya, by applying physical pressure on the authorities named Murat Karakaya, in a disrespectful manner, has made a grave insult to the political establishment. Two members of the government are there. Events like this don't do anybody any good. Everyone needs to know their place. No one has the right to use the authority that he has not received from the Constitution. Mr. President, this is Murat Karakaya's Deputy Chief of Police for his negative, disrespectful attitude towards the Republican People's Party delegation on the scene.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0128par0729	I'll turn on your microphone, complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0127par0730	...the government owes an apology to us and to the mayor of Istanbul, and then to the police officer Murat Karakaya. It must not be forgotten that the reputation of the House and its MPs is also the reputation of our nation. Again, it must not be forgotten that the politician's reputation is the reputation of our democracy. We ask the government, the Republican People's Party of İstanbul Governor for this statement and for the sake of the great nation and the party to investigate Murat Karakaya as well. I do, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0128par0732	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0129par0733	Mr. President, I want word on the same page.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0128par0734	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0129par0736	Thank you, Mr. President. In my earlier speech, I gave a balance sheet on events that have occurred in our country since July 2015. I mean, about 1,743 people have lost their lives, friends have been injured in the last year and a half, and 8,000 others have been injured. In particular, we think this recent Ortaköy incident is something that needs a multi-dimensional investigation. Turkey's nerve endings are being touched. Turkey is drifting one step at a time into chaos, and it needs to be seen, and it needs to be realized. Now the government and those who run the state must do something more than offer their condolences. Turkey must fight terrorism with all its national elements. Messages from those who run the government have led us to despair, I'm afraid. So, today, our Home Secretary's speech is the same, or other messages from government officials, messages from the top of the state are a serious perception that the case is not well understood. How did Turkey become so open to terrorism? What are the reasons for that? What kind of mistakes have been made in the past? Who's been neglected? We all need to think and reflect on the answers to these questions, especially the government. The goal of the attacks is Turkey, which is to use separator tools, but the goal is the unity and integrity of Turkey. Our nation is in great sadness and pessimism, of course, in which case, some of our practices in particular increase that pessimism. It'll give our nation hope, we'll have to do future jobs for them as government rulers. For example, in this context, I speak from time to time, and other friends of ours, of course, are saying that we, of course, are already saying that we're willing to fight the fight until the end, as a political party, but we must not forget that there are serious victims in this struggle. The government's decision to reduce these victims to a minimum...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0130par0741	Complete, Mr. Master, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0129par0742	Thank you, Mr. President. We feel that the prevention of minimizing the victims in the fight against ▪ should be taken. There are bureaucrats and politicians who hurt people just because nothing happened to me, and they create a serious lack of trust in our people, in their government, in their nation. Especially, you know, having arrested soldiers, arresting military students, attendings, teachers from their jobs, police officers... we'd have to conduct these jobs as a result of a very serious investigation around here. If the Republic of Turkey does not put the fight against the state on a proper basis, our next ten years will also be dark. In this matter, I would like to warn the government one more time. Thank you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0131par0746	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0132par0749	I wanted to say the same thing, Mr. President. Everyone really wanted to enter 2017 with hope, but unfortunately, we were asked to stay in 2016 again, especially by those who orchestrated these brutal attacks, and by 2017, people actually entered those hopes, framing them with sadness. But today, unfortunately, I'm talking about our late-night interview, where people can actually watch and see arguments, debate, talk about the interior ministry. Here, at the same time, we can't deny the responsibility of political power and of the Home Secretary who's in charge here. That unity is not united by simply saying the general words. In memory of the people who went there and were slaughtered in Reina, the people who themselves had experienced the Suruç massacre or had lost relatives, put carnations in them, and remained in custody until last night just because they had put carnations in them. Two of my colleagues were lawyers. Now, you can't really live with that. I want to read a text. Of course, I would want this text to actually come from our President and this Parliament. Northern Cypriot President Mustafa Akincı (Liccan culture) is too heavy a burden for our country to carry. He points out freedom of thought and expression under his title.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0133par0754	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0132par0756	Thank you. ▪ The life of a very vocal democratic society is based on the use of freedoms based on respect for people who think differently. Whether it's right or wrong, it is of course necessary not to exceed the limit of respect for the expression of all thoughts and opinions. However, it can't be justified that the reaction to the style would escape and, in particular, turn into a lynching attempt. It says and continues with very good statements: I observe with concern that a dangerous tension in our country has also been increasing, which is not possible to be approved among the different views in recent days. Political lynching culture is too heavy for our country to bear. We all need each other.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0133par0759	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0132par0760	I'll finish it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0133par0761	Here you go, finish up.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0132par0762	▪ I urge all parties to act with a sense of responsibility and avoid climbing tensions. Mustafa Akincı, President Yes, we would love to have these wishes, these wishes, in this country, but apart from freedom of thought and expression, we still have 12 MPs in this parliament, along with our co-chairs, who have expressed only their thoughts for sixty days. And we'll never forget it, and we'll never forget it. Parliament has to remember these MPs, and we think they need to make an effort to do so. Thank you so much for your kindness, for your time.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0134par0765	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0135par0768	Mr. President, thank you very much. May 2017 be good for our nation and for humanity. Let us not forget that we have a people, a nation, who will not only wish for it, but will carry it out as a perpetrator. The state and country of the Republic of Turkey have come to this day after a long historical experience as a nation state. We know that in this country, Alevi, Sunni, Turk, Kurd, everyone has a common sense, an approach to common destiny and the future by experiencing the culture of living together in that long tradition. Of course, there may be differences in opinion, which are essentially discussed, discussed. Turkey's most important antidote to terrorism is its long democratic experience. By the power of democracy, power is brought to work by the people; it is again taken by the people; it is not necessary for anyone to use force or to try other methods. Powers form in the people's will and direction. The opposition's ways of power are clear in Turkey. These roads are used and are connected to the public, and if the public supports them, there is the possibility that the opposition will be in power, as did the examples in the past; these roads are not closed. There is a strict tradition of secularism in terms of freedom of religion and conscience. Basically, the understanding of Islam that we have is a very tolerant and welcoming understanding, and as a matter of fact, we have an understanding that we believe not only that limited color of Turkey, but that the current color of the world is God's will.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0134par0771	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Bostanci, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0135par0772	When tragedy strikes, when terror shows its bloody face, there will surely be criticisms of the people and representatives, different calls for power, which will be expressed, but it's very important that it gathers a common side against terrorism, raises its voices against terrorism. We'll take care of this weak terror once and for all. This power, this culture, this understanding, this belief, this tradition, this will, this institutionation is present in the Republic of Turkey, its people. We believe that, and that's how we look at the future. Thank you very much. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit01spe0134par0774	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We present the opening of the gene question on behalf of Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu, who is responsible for the pressures against the democratic political institution in our country, the violations of rights, the victims, the deaths and increasing violence, under Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th, the TBMM Institution. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair The Ministry of Interior provides security, including preventive procedures with the police and bureaucracy agency under its authority, and services to the public for democracy and for the welfare of the people through local administrations that depend on it. These are the two main categories that show whether representatives of the Ministry of Interior have succeeded. However, in Turkey, the ministry is represented by balances in various ruling partnerships at some times, instead of the rules and criteria required by a successful ministry practice. As a result of this antidemocratic and lack of integrity, an important institution, such as the Interior Ministry, raises major problems in ensuring public welfare, safety, community stability, and co-existence. In this context, both the former Interior Minister and the former Interior Minister in Turkey, who took over as of August 2016, provided a continuum during the Interior Minister's period, which brought great destructions to our peoples -- physical, political, and psychologically. During this period, the democratic political institution suffered major losses. As a result of pressure on our party and on the Party of Democratic Territories, 63 of our local politicians and electors were placed in prisons, including our co-chair and deputy mayor. In the meantime, the method of appointing a trustee in Turkey's history, which is the practice of "special law," has been applied to our municipalities and has been assigned to 45 municipalities, including our major city municipalities. In the field of democratic politics, pressure on our elected politicians, who have taken the will of the public to produce politics, has also expanded in this period towards the co-chairs and MPs of our third-largest party in Turkey. On November 5th and December 12th, our co-chairs and deputies were arrested in political operations. Starting before June 7, 2015, hundreds of our party buildings, especially our headquarters, have been attacked and provided covert support for the attackers without any criminal action. In addition to our party, in the Minister's practice, our province of Şırnak has been asked to be wiped off the map, and the wounds have deepened in city centers where curfew has been imposed. Our country has been the address of bombs that have never been seen in its history. Only 27 attacks occurred from the first day of 2016 to today, and 328 people were killed in these attacks. The entire country has become an island of insecurity for our citizens, from Van. From Istanbul to Adana to Kayseri. In addition, hundreds of associations in Turkey that sustain civil society dynamics have been shut down by the Ministry of Interior. In addition, the recent responsibility for the assassination of Russian Ambassador Karlov on December 19th was written at the Home Office of the Interior Minister. As you can see from the above examples, during this period, which is a proprietary failure, the Home Secretary is supposed to resign according to its responsibilities, while he is trying to produce a technique to remain in the seat using a hostile language for the country's democratic, progressive, revolutionary forces. However, these statements produce nothing but deepening social dissociation and polarisation in the country. The minister, who needs to eliminate these dangers, sharpens his tongue every day to update the practice of the 1990s, which is written on the dark pages of history. It is clear that this landscape deepens the emotional disconnect between identities, as well as keeping our country's impact mechanics alive. On all these grounds, we've submitted a motion to the Minister of the Interior to make the social dissolution more difficult to carry out his duties. It has been presented to your knowledge. On the day of the motion's meeting, you will be selected to submit your votes under the advisory council or political party group proposals. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0134par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of Parliament, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım has reached our office in 29/12/2016 as to the resignation of İstanbul MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, as to the resignation of the Security and Intelligence Commission membership of Ağrı MP Berdan Ozturk, as to the resignation of Mr. Bedia Özbşçe Ertan's membership in the Justice Commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a statement saying that a member of parliament should be allowed to read it and vote on it. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly İstanbul MP Shafah Pavey's 24 days off as of 15/8/2016 due to his participation in the 16th Committee Meeting of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN) has been approved with the Council's decision 13/12/2016. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two other papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly With the financial support of the World Trade Organization (DTÖ) Doha Development Agenda Global Emanet Fund, the World Trade Organization Regional Trade Initiative for Parliamentaries in Vienna, Austria, on 21 February 2017, will be held for MPs from Central and Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Caucasus. The issue of accession to the study is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Middle East and North African Energy Conference, held in London, England, on January 23-24, 2017, is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/1/2017 (today), we would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 446th legislature of the Bill of Law, which is included in "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," is to be ranked in the 1st place of this chapter and to be identified according to the order of other tasks; On Tuesday (January 3rd 2017), the General Assembly's meeting will be held on Tuesday (January 3rd 2017), with the reading of the Prime Minister's Office for sending troops to Afghanistan (the extension of 30/38) on 3/1/2017 dates and 2-46 of the extraordinary state of the presidency. The agenda of the number-one Gensoru proposal (11/14) issued on Tuesday (January 3, 2017) on Tuesday (today) is to be placed in the 1st placement of "Personal Affairs on Special Age" and to be held in this unification of talks on whether the 99th Article of the Constitution should be taken into the agenda; and also in today's merger, the election of the Personal Data Protection Board membership of the Committee is to be held on the agenda. Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 4th, 2017), until the meeting of the 440th Amendment, Until the meeting of Thursday (January 5th, 2017), until the meeting of the 39th Bill of the Law, the talks were completed. Out of weekdays, 6, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22 and 23, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, 14 o'clock. Meeting at 00, the talks are on the agenda of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until the meeting of Friday (January 6, 2017), until the end of the talks on the 302nd Amendment, Until the meeting of Monday (January 9, 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 116, was completed, Until the meeting of Tuesday (January 10th, 2017), until the meeting of the 285th Bill of the Law, the talks were completed. Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 11th, 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 356, was completed, Until the meeting of Thursday (January 12th, 2017), until the meeting of the 169th Amendment, Until the meeting of Friday (January 13th, 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 109, was completed, Until the meeting of Saturday (January 14, 2017), until the meeting of the 137th Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Sunday (January 15th, 2017), until the meeting of the 380th Amendment, Until Monday (January 16th, 2017) the meeting of the talks of the operations leading up to Bill 88 in the unification of Monday (January 16, 2017), Until the meeting of Tuesday (January 17th 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature No. 35th Amendment, the talks were completed. Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 18th, 2017), until the end of the talks on the 181st Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Thursday (January 19th, 2017), until the meeting of the 248th Amendment, Until the meeting of Friday (January 20, 2017), until the meeting of the 142nd Amendment, Until the meeting of Saturday (January 21st, 2017), until the meeting of the 392th Bill of Law, the talks were completed. Until the meeting of Sunday (January 22nd, 2017), until the meeting of the 192nd Amendment, Until the meeting of Monday (January 23, 2017), until the meeting of the 194th Bill of the Law, the talks were completed. Until the meeting of Tuesday (January 24th, 2017), until the meeting of the 191st Bill of Laws, the talks were completed. It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedule is incomplete at 00 hours, it will continue its work until the day program is completed; The Law Bill 446 was proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. I'm going to make a pledge to the members of the Justice and Development Party's proposal and to the members of parliament who are demanding a word against it. The first speaker in his favour is Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0136par0071	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, in our group proposal, there are some suggestions for changes in the agenda between the working days and hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly until January 24th. According to this, there is a demand today that Turkish Armed Forces be sent abroad as part of NATO's Determination Mission for Support and Continuation in Afghanistan, as well as to participate in the mission of the Armed Forces for the same purposes, to be sent back to Afghanistan through our country for two years, as part of its deployment and provisions that will be possible by the government, as of January 6, 2017. We're recommending negotiations for the Prime Minister's thesis on this today. At the same time, the extraordinary state of the Turkish Grand National Assembly declared throughout the country by July 21, 2016 and Decision 1116, and continued in accordance with Resolution 11/10/2016 and 1130 is held on Thursday (January 19, 2017) at 01 a.m. The completion of their talks today will also be brought to the agenda of the Prime Minister's thesis on the extension of the period of three months, effective from 00... In other words, it is recommended that the meeting of Minister of Interior Mr. Süleyman Soylu (11/14) is held today by taking the 1st place on the agenda. On the other hand, the bill on the 446 Retirement Ark Law of the Republic of Turkey, which the public has been waiting for, and on the amendments to some Turkish Cypriots, consists of 38 articles and two chapters. And here are some very important arrangements that really concern our citizens. It is especially important that these citizens, whose pension has been eligible for more than 30 years, have been awarded pensions over 30 years, and this bill, which is equipped with tax and tuition exceptions for investors. Hopefully, we'll be able to end this meeting today, tomorrow, Friday, by the time we get to the top of the agenda. We recommend that the General Assembly work continuously from Monday (January 9th) to Monday (January 23rd), including on weekends, and start working hours from Tuesday at 3:00 p.m. and then at 2:00 p.m. on the other days. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0137par0080	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Haydar Akar, MP for the Justice and Development Party Group against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0138par0084	Mr. President, we're going to talk about the AKP group proposal. The AKP group proposal organises Parliament hours, as you all know. Usually, because they can't work on schedule, they bring in a group of suggestions every week, and they rearrange those hours every time. This one, of course, is something very different. Why are they doing this? To go to a constitutional amendment, a partial constitutional amendment -- it may not be called a constitutional amendment -- they bring it to Parliament today to go to this. When you look at the hours brought in, we'll be working until Friday this week, including Friday. So, as they have just stated, there is a law proposal for the reparation of the severance of citizens who are retired and who have been serving as state officials for more than 30 years, and we approve a lot of what's in it, and there's no hesitation about that. So when law proposals, law proposals, the basic interests of society come in, we support them. When are we going to study the original Constitution? We start on Monday (January 9, 2017), and we will continue to work indefinitely until January 24th. Now, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday will be involved. You know, TRT or Parliament TV only broadcasts on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and broadcasts until 1900, and no broadcasts on other days. Now, what are we going to discuss? We're going to discuss what we call the Constitutional Proposal, which is what you call the Constitution, the regime change we call the one-man regime. Such a regime change is discussed in the Turkish Republic's Parliament, while the Republic of Turkey has the right to inform its citizens. I mean, you shouldn't be afraid of that, right? So what are we supposed to do? On Monday (January 9th), all of our talks must be given from these televisions, from TRT, from Parliament TV, and even from other national televisions. You know, when they're out there, you know, without even reading your constitutional proposals, they're making statements that support that presidential system, and we have to put together a broadcast that's going to let them know, and we're going to have to get them to meet our nation here. Why do we have to hook him up? So people can find out about your offer. You're always talking about national will, you're talking about social understanding, and if you ban this publication or don't allow it, you're going to have to answer to the community. They will find out whether you are telling the truth or we are telling the truth. Are you making a partial constitutional amendment and coming up with suggestions to solve the fundamental problems of society, or are we telling you how the republic was stripped of the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was established in 1920, was taken out of the palace and given power to the nation again? How are we going to tell these people? Together, you will say your suggestions, and we will say ours, and the people will go to the chest and make the right decision, and we will respect the will that comes out of the chest. Therefore, these publications need to be made, everyone needs to know the provisions of this constitutional amendment, and we need to use our votes at this level of consciousness when we get to the box. And what is this Constitution? What did we say? We said it's a public understanding text, didn't we? If the constitutions pass through 80 percent in the community, with 90. If they can unite the dynamics of that society, then social peace will be achieved. You're always saying that July 15th, July 15th, we say, "July 15th"; you quickly forgot July 15th, friends, quickly forgot. What did we do on July 15th? Here, four political parties with the group in parliament all signed a text, issued a declaration. Is there anyone here who didn't sign under this manifesto? On behalf of all of us, the Speaker has announced and we all supported that declaration. What was he saying in that manifesto? The support of the Parliamentary regime and the removal of shortcomings in front of the parliamentary regime. In short, the summary of the declaration was that July 15th was eliminated by the parliamentary regime. Okay, so far it's normal. Now, we've looked, and then you've been quiet, and there's no voice of Mr. President sitting in the palace, and there's no voice of the president of the AKP, the ministers and the MPs, and you've never spoken of the president. I'm going back a little bit before it gets to that point, before it comes to that. Remember the June 7, 2015 elections, when you went out on the streets as the president, the chairperson of your election campaigns, and the people slapped you so hard that you couldn't decide what to do, what to do, and that's how you got on the road. This country was then taken to the November 1st election without being given the mandate to form government for other political parties. When they were taken to November 1st election, the will of the nation was ignored and taken to November 1st election, we didn't hear a single word from AKP's mouth between June 7th and November 1st. Then what did you talk about when you left? If you give me national agreements and 400 MPs, we'll solve terrorism, economic stability will continue. You've embraced the projects of the Republican People's Party along with a hoax called "The People's Party." So our projects were right and we walked. Now we're back to July 15th. On October 11, 2016, when you were silent after July 15, Mr. Bahçeli said, "There is no reason, there is an actual situation in the middle, we have to make up the actual situation by creating an actual situation." Who created this actual situation? He was a president who didn't count the Constitution, who didn't care about the Constitution, and who even called the decisions made by the judiciary. I don't recognize that judgment. Members of parliament, if a President does not comply with the Constitutional Courts of the Republic of Turkey, it is impossible to speak of justice in that country, it is impossible to speak of the independence of the judiciary, and it is impossible to expect another citizen to abide by those laws. When Mr. Bahçeli brought this, you jumped at him and he's been talking about the presidency today, and this is Turkey, not just the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the presidency of Turkey, on TV, on street and on Parliament. So, our whole problem is the president? Problems that haven't been solved in one man's power in 14 years... put your hand on your conscience and ask yourself this question: we've been in power for 14 years. During this time of our rule, did we ever solve terror? Did you solve terror when every word he said was the law, every thing he dictated to you, everything you spent hours arguing in this House, everything you voted for, everything you voted for, everything you've ever done? Over 400 martyrs in 18 months, over 3,000 wounded, and bombs explode every day in our country, and people face death every day. Has he been able to solve the safety of citizens living in Turkey? Ask your consciences about that. You've been in power for 14 years, and you're a very powerful government, and the problem is to your consciences: have we been able to solve unemployment here for 14 years? You haven't been able to solve it, have you? Turkey is currently experiencing the greatest unemployment in history, friends. So, in your 14 years of power, did we solve education? Ask yourself, "You can't solve it, can you?" You still won't be able to answer that. Freak, you brought a weird system, a system called 4+4+4, and kids who were 1 years old when your power started today are 15 years old. 540,000 of those 15-year-olds were tested, tested for PISA. In science, mathematics, and understanding of their studies, they are ranked at the 50th place between 70 countries, and are ranked 48th. Well, that was during your reign. Now, to your consciences: have we solved the education? When you come up with zero problems and today you're just a problem, ask your conscience if we've been able to figure it out. At the request of someone who you call my brother Assad, you did it, and then you turned it back into Assad, and now you're walking again as Assad, my brother. Now, I ask you, to your consciences, have you solved foreign policy? And, for God's sake, have you solved Turkey's electricity problem? You're bragging about electricity production, you're bragging about the electricity production of the private sector, there's no electricity in more than half of 16 organised industrial areas in my town, there's more than 300m euros in damage. In the village of 13,000 people, the neighborhood, the town, whatever you want to call it, there's been no electricity for seven days. At the grocery store, the candle's out, it's not burning its natural gas because it doesn't have electricity. Did you guys figure it out? It's your conscience. You think you can bring in one man, the only man in power in 14 years, bring in one man's regime, change the regime and solve them? If you ask these questions, I salute you with love and respect, friends, that you will not give the authority given by the people to a man, and that you will take possession of the regime established by Ataturk, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0139par0101	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0140par0102	The system problem you're asking about, we're going to fix the system.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0138par0103	Then ask these questions.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0139par0104	In favor of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Erhan Usta, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0141par0107	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Now, of course, like every group proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party, this is actually the result of a lack of planning, of unscheduledness; we say that every time we talk, we say that. I mean, it's a plan, but unfortunately in the program room, Congress can't move. When it comes to words like that, we give calendars to 2071, but I'm going to tell you something that happened today -- we don't see an hour from now. As of last night, there was some information from Mr. Group Vice President about what might have happened, but in the morning all this information was changed from the group, from the AKP Group... Today our friends -- look at this, our group's agenda -- have changed the agenda six times. I mean, we didn't know until the last minute, until 2:00 a.m., if there was going to be an interview today, if there was going to be a meeting of the State of Emergency. Now, this kind of parliamentary work, this kind of agenda... which, of course, we don't have much objection to the content of today's group proposal: Afghanistan, the State of Emergency documents, they need to be discussed, but if I remember correctly, this Afghanistan thesis ends on January 6th. Look, it'll be over in three days. I'd like to ask why we're waiting until now, why we don't do this in a proper plan and showroom. Of course, this style of governance has become an understanding that surrounds the entire country, and that's the worst of it. You know, it's not a big deal if it's just a day-to-day thing like this, but believe me, this is how the country is run in all its aspects. So, unfortunately, we run this country, with an idea of management that speaks like this, but has no schedule for an hour ahead of schedule. For example, on Monday, after the Council of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Bürmiş was asked, "Was there a meeting of the State of Emergency in the Council of Ministers?" No, he didn't. He said, "No, it hasn't been discussed." But in the morning, the State of Emergency thesis was signed by the Council of Ministers. How is this happening? I mean, most of our ministers in the government probably agree with what I'm saying, and we can't see anything either, and how is it, how is it, how are things being done? They're probably screaming too, but unfortunately, they can't say it. Now, of course, it's impossible to solve big problems with day-to-day politics, friends. Turkey has been in a circle of fire, so we've been talking about terrorism all morning, we've got serious problems in terrorism, we've got serious problems in domestic politics, we've got things to work out, foreign policy is actually completely over, Turkey's in there too. You're looking at the economy -- maybe a little bit of detail -- where we're in serious difficulty. But, we don't allow them to participate in this kind of day-to-day, non-disclosure... There is no consultation between the institutions, let alone the opposition. Look, I'm a friend of yours from bureaucracy, and we're also following the very well-known bureaucracy, as part of our job; there's no consultation, there's no coordination, there's decisions, there's a fundamental issue, there's no news of any other institutions associated with him, there's no news in the House, there's no news at all, there's no news at all, there's no news at all, but there's a need to defend the matter brought by another ministry. And if you insist, I can give you a sample of these. Now, of course, that's how we see that management comes and blocks the country. We say that Turkey is going through tough days, that we, as the National Movement Party -- of course, our other political parties -- are doing it -- we think a lot about it; we call it unity; we say that we support the government in the fight against terrorism. But, of course, this union has to be a bit of a bottom line. So there's no way to maintain unity in a political environment where the government or the ruling group is looking for opposition parties at the time of hardship, but when they're a little bit distracted by the problem -- I don't know, when the polls are done -- where their votes are able to do some work, they don't remember the opposition for long. Especially if we want to solve such great problems, we need to dominate compromises and consultations throughout this country. We must rule both in this House and in the outside and in the institutions and in everything. Now, of course, so I'll manage as I know it. The government has to give up its understanding if we want to solve the issues of this country. Of course, while we're doing this program, we expect the AKP Group, and we keep telling the government that the economy of Turkey is in serious trouble, so let's get your programs out of here, fast, through Parliament. Other opposition parties say that too. However, so far, nothing has come of any of this. Structural, reform-based work to solve the problems of Turkey's economy is not in commissions at the moment, it's not on the General Assembly agenda, so there's nothing waiting around here. Why can't these be done, why can't these be brought in? We want to see these. So, in AKP's group proposals, we want to see that the legislation to solve the problems of Turkey's economy is on the agenda. Of course, the first thing that needs to be done is we need to overcome a uncertainty, we need to restore confidence in the economy, and the government needs to avoid actions that undermine trust. Look, the conflicting statements of ministers are the most important element in this country that undermines confidence, enhances uncertainty. Now, I can't give them an example because we're short on time, but we've brought them up over and over again in different conversations. So, we need to maintain confidence, reduce uncertainty, so that there can be investments, jobs in this country. We can't expect him to invest from an entrepreneur who can't see a day from now, very respectable friends. Now, the government has announced a series of national revenues, or rather, the TİK has announced a series of national revenues; we've criticised this several times, we have serious technical criticism, we have political criticism; we haven't heard from the government yet. Who's talking? TÜİK President has made statements; it is true, it is appropriate that he make a statement, but the government is not speaking, Mr. President is responding to criticism here. I mean, there's nothing in the answer, but, of course, he's interrupting, he's right. He says, "That's what we're doing." But we're here, we're waiting for a statement from the government about these criticisms, and we say, if this national income series is true, if this measurement is true, Turkey should throw away all policy documents -- starting with the government programme -- the government program, the development plan, the medium-term program, the annual programme. Because the policies there and what this series is saying are completely different. Turkey's problems were very different; Turkey had no familiar problems; this series says so. Now, shouldn't the government have something to say about this, for God's sake? Why don't we get something about this? Why isn't this on our agenda? So there's a uncertainty in politics. Turkey has lost its compass, has difficulty finding direction, and we are trying to run the economy of Turkey. Now, of course, 2017 is the year we face serious risks. Look, I hope we don't have a year as bad as 2016 on domestic terms. So, really, July 15th, a treacherous coup attempt, tremors; before that, when I say the challenges in the economy, the fight against terrorism -- but 2017, in terms of global conditions, Turkey will be a much harder year for the economy, Turkey should be prepared for that. It scares me, believe me, as a former bureaucrat, a new politician, to see no preparation for this, there is no preparation. Look, there's no study in the institutions either, guys. Don't think that he didn't come to us and the institutions work. There's no such thing. So, against the risks of Turkey 2017... well, there are decisions ahead of us, the FED is starting to make, but the money is going to flow a little bit further into developed economies, and we're dealing with serious risks in public finance, for example. Public-special cooperation projects are the biggest challenge in this country. Look, the difficulties with Osman Gazi Bridge -- we can see that now from a small sample -- have reached the extreme. I mean, there's an environment now that investors can buy from the government in two years, guaranteed all investment costs, but they're always bragging about it. What are you bragging about, bro? So, Turkey made it out of its own budget during the absence, and now we're doing it with the do-and-do, with the public-private cooperation, and we're putting a serious risk on our children over the state for the next term, but Turkey can't talk about it, and there's no account book on them, and the government can't bring anything. Now, Osman Gazi Bridge's transit fees have been lowered. Yeah, who's gonna pay for that? The investor won't take it. How much will the budget be worth, how much will the future projects cost? We've been asking for information on both commissions and the General Assembly, and there's no information. Guys, I'm just saying, since we're talking about an agenda, Turkey's agenda should be those risks ahead. Of course, because I'm economical, I've talked a little bit economically, but this country about politics, foreign policy, is facing serious risks, but it's going to reduce those risks, minimize those risks, unfortunately, the government doesn't come, and I'm pretty sure it won't come tomorrow. Of course, oil prices, European elections, reflections of this, the protective policies of the United States... look, there is talk of issues that will radically change the business in the United States... in the United States, at the global level... there are protective policies that will affect all trade, and there are no reform agendas in Turkey. I'm still trying to protect my good faith, and I invite the government and the AKP Group to come with this kind of program, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0142par0121	Thank you, Mr. Master. Against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0143par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute all lawmakers with respect and love. Mr. President, I'd like to begin with the wish of 2016, when we've been through traumas, sufferings, heartburns... that no mother, mother, father, or member of this geography will suffer the same pain... and I will, if I may, continue my talk on behalf of my group... against the motion that the ruling party has presented to find life. First of all, how do we build peace, the most pressing need of this Parliament, in order for all the plagues that we have experienced in 2016 to be removed from this country? First of all, when we look at real politics today, we're going through almost the darkest period of our history, and it's a human, moral, moral, political assignment, with the responsibility of being a parliamentary speaker, representing this nation. Unfortunately, for a long time -- at least as my testimony as Osman Baydemir -- since the day we set foot in Parliament, the will of Parliament has almost been taken from you. The whole legislature agenda, which Parliament has tried to run, is almost determined outside Parliament. And yet the conscience here, the mind here, unfortunately, doesn't come into play. Dear MPs, a first in the history of the Republic. By April 2013-2015 until May, people in this country did not lose their lives, a hundred years of discussion, an effort to resolve the problem through negotiation. I now ask the conscience of all consciences; of the Turk, of the Kurdish, of Alevi, of the Sunni, of the faithful, of the secularist: 2013-2015 April, of May, of July; of 2016, of 2017? If we're given a choice, which one would we prefer? I prefer 2013, 2014, 2015; I reject violence, I deny death, I deny blood, I deny tears. If we want to reach a conclusion at this minimum, then once again we have to have democracy, freedom, once again the desire to live together. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to draw your attention once again to those heavy balance sheets: 573 people lost their lives in the last 19 months and only in the suicide bombings, 2,664 people were injured, so almost 30 lives a month fall to the ground. For God's sake, for 70 years today, the language used by the government's staff was used, and there was no other painting, no other balance sheet.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0144par0131	Then why did you dig holes at the time?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0143par0132	So let's ask the same question: What happened to that process?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0144par0133	Why did you plant bombs in those places? Explain why you planted bombs there.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0143par0134	What happened is that process is not over, and what happens, what's done and what's not done can be returned to that ground once again, once again, a common future can be built? But none of you have any doubt that it is also legal democratic politics in this country that is now being destroyed.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0144par0135	As long as you don't answer that question, everything you say is theater.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0143par0136	In the city where I was chosen, Urbana, 190 people, including two co-mayors, have been held in concentration camp conditions for 23 days, and lawyers need special permission from their families in order to meet with those in custody. Someone's committing a massacre, someone's committing a crime, someone's not showing any insight in preventing it, but they're trying to get the bill up to HDP. Mr. President, you can see on December 12th, a painting of the state-run law enforcement agency, which entered the building of Ceylanpınar HDP district office under the name. I'm telling you very clearly, it's illegal, and those who practice this practice will be called..barbará in history. Look, from the first floor of the building to the second floor, all the doors to the conference room have been broken, all the furniture destroyed. In the same way, imagine that the only victim of violence, death, and bloodshed -- once again, those who lost their lives, were sent to die. But there's another conclusion that he's created: the legal democratic political ground is being wiped out. The biggest victim of the attacks on legal democratic politics in this minor is, no doubt, HDP. 12 of our fellow lawmakers, who are supposed to be at this time today, are currently in prison, not at this time. I'm telling you very clearly, if you put all HDP MPs in prison, all of our districts, state agencies in prison, not enough, if you put 6 million voters in prison, there won't be a painting outside of that, because for 70 years, there hasn't been a painting. So there's only one way, there's only one solution, and that's to go into the search for a meeting in common values, common denominators, one more time, the search for a solution. Look, when the agenda is read, when the agenda of this month is read... there will be a so-called constitution in Parliament. Well, the Constitution -- for God's sake, there are lawyers -- is a social contract where all society meets and shapes its future in common denominators, an equally, brotherly, rightly, life, and promises to one another for the future, but let's see that this text is not allowed even to be shared with the community under the roof of Parliament. An estimated 200 hours of work is envisioned, but only 28 hours of this time will be broadcast live on the TRT. So, since we're applying for the will of the nation, if we're going to the will of the nation, why do we prevent the discussion itself, the essence of it, from arguing in public? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me make it very clear that no one, and no one, will ever be profitable for violence, for death, for death. For 70 years, the death, war, fighting, fighting in this geography, has never had a winner in its essence, except to give the imperials a chance to give them a scar that they can scratch, and today, unfortunately, this country has become a clear wound that many people can scratch. So, let's say, once again, let's start a new chapter over the floor of consultation, over the floor of dialogue, over the common denominator, over the floor of the common denominator, on the ground where we can leave an honorable peace that we can call our children, our children, our grandchildren, as an inheritance. If we fail to open this page, the entire parliamentary assembly here, especially the government, will be held accountable in front of the people and in the presence of Hakk. With these feelings, I salute you once again with respect, with love.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0145par0144	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. I'd like you to vote for the Justice and Development Group...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0146par0148	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0145par0149	Yeah, I'll vote for you, but there's a roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Çanaak, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Black Sea, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Basci, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Division, Mr. Purçu, Mr. Akadun, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Göker, Mr. Demir, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, we will begin negotiations with the Prime Ministerial Court, which has been issued according to Article 92 of the Constitution. Now, I'm going to make you read the thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the UN Security Council's decisions 1368 (2001), 1373 (2001) and 1386 (2001) and the results of the Bonn Conference, dated 5 December 2001, the government of Afghanistan was established in 2001 by NATO in order to improve its security situation and to help create its own security capabilities, and the responsibility of this force was adopted by the International Security and Aid Force (ISAF) in 2003 by NATO Council on April 16th 2003, when the UN Security Council Decision No. 1510 (2003) expanded its command, control and co-existence beyond Kabul. The Turkish Armed Forces served in Afghanistan from the beginning of Operation ISAF (ISAF) on the basis of Turkish Parliament's authority to the Government on October 10, 2001, with its resolution 722. NATO heads of state and government agreed on the launch of the Unsubstantiated Support Mission in Afghanistan after the end of the ISAF, at the summits in Chicago and 4-5 September 2014 in Wales on 20-21 May 2012. The mission provides training, counselling and assistance to Afghan national security forces that will assume security responsibility throughout the country. Turkey, which has long-standing brotherhood and friendship relations with Afghanistan, has always supported Afghanistan's independence with its national unity and integrity; Afghanistan has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas, providing the Afghan people to live in peace, stability and prosperity. Our country, which is running one of the most comprehensive foreign aid programmes in the history of the Republic, contributes to the mission on the basis of the Turkish Parliament's Decision No. 1079, dated 6/1/2015. NATO heads of state and government pledged to continue contributions to Afghanistan as part of the mission after 2016 at the Summit in Warsaw, held on July 8, 9, 2016. In this framework, continuing our contribution to the mission will be considered a natural extension of our bilateral relations with Afghanistan and our active foreign policy in the region. In light of these appeals, the border, the amount, the amount, and the amount and the amount of time to be recognised by the government, and the decision that the Turkish Armed Forces will carry out in Afghanistan as part of NATO's Decisionary Support Mission and its continuation, 6/1/2015 and 1079th National Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, to be allowed to participate in the mission through our country in order to ensure its re-integration and access to Afghanistan under the scope of the Constitution, as of the government. Government? Here. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the stand on the counter: On behalf of the government, Mr. Fikri Ik, Minister of National Defense. On behalf of the groups, Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu, İstanbul MPşyar Özsoy on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Özturk Yılmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Ardahan MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Şirin Ünal on behalf of the People's Party Group. In the name of the individuals, Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP. Now, the first word is your government. On behalf of the government, Mr. Fikri Ik, Minister of National Defense. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0147par0181	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the government on the grounds that the Turkish Armed Forces elements will be allowed to be in Turkey on the basis of the decision to be deployed abroad as part of the NATO Support Mission and the continuation of the NATO Armed Forces; for the same purposes, foreign armed forces, to participate in the mission in question. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, before I start speaking, I wish that 2017 would bring blessings for our country, for our nation and for all mankind, and particularly, I strongly and with hate condemning that treacherous terrorist attack in Istanbul on New Year's Eve. I pray for God's mercy to all of our people who have died in this attack. The goal of terrorism is our national unity and unity, and the antidote is to maintain this national unity and unity. At this point, Turkey is facing an intense anti-terrorism process and is struggling heavily with terrorism. There's only one country in the world currently fighting so many terrorist organizations at the same time, which is Turkey, but by the will of Allah, we will know how to overcome this terror scourge by maintaining our unity and unity. We are especially grateful for the effort our soldiers, our police, our gendarmes, and all our security forces have put forth. On this occasion, I pray for God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have died to make this land our homeland, and to keep it our homeland, and to our veterans, I pray for speedy healing. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I once again express my faith in this: as long as our unity, our union, as long as we stay together, our country's survival will be guaranteed. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have very serious opportunities and very serious responsibilities as Turkey is the intersection point between Europe, Asia and Africa. NATO membership, which is at the centre of such a sensitive geography, is one of the key elements of our international security and defence policy, which determines the power and potential of our country at the national level. As you know, the NATO alliance has taken on various missions, from Kosovo to Afghanistan, to achieve stability and peace in the Euro-Atlantic region and beyond, thus providing significant contributions to international security and stability. There is no doubt that one of the countries where we have deep historical and close relationships is Afghanistan. Relations between the two countries leading back to the Republic are of particular importance and meaning because Afghanistan was the first country to recognise the government of Ankara on 1 March 1921, when the Liberation War continued. Afghanistan's support for the Turkish nation's struggle for salvation from the very beginning remains unique in our hearts and memories. As you know, during our Battle of Salvation, Afghan women supported this struggle by even giving away their ornaments. We know that the Afghans fought with us in Çanakkale. In short, our relations with Afghanistan, which stemmed from a long history, have been based on mutual respect, cooperation, true friendship and brotherhood. Turkey has always supported Afghanistan's national unity, integrity and independence, and has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas, which ensures that the Afghan people live in peace, stability and prosperity. As a matter of fact, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has appointed his most distinguished officers to form the national army of Afghanistan. Even today, words such as the army of Afghanistan, such as the army, the caravan, are a sign of the lasting consequences of these efforts. In the 1920s and 1930s, Turkey has not only been part of the Afghan army, but has also contributed greatly to the establishment of Afghanistan's first modern hospital and medical school, the development of law and political information schools. The balances that the Second World War overturned were also effective in Asia, and the Cold War did not allow friends and brothers to develop their relationship at the level most countries desired. Starting in 1979, the friend and sister country, which has survived great misfortunes, has finally become in need of the international community's help. After all, the International Security Aid Force, the ISAF, was formed under the decisions taken by the United Nations Security Council in 2001 to restore Afghanistan to stability and security, and under the results of the 5 December 2001 Bonn Conference. The area of responsibility for the ISAF (ISAF), which was created to help the Afghan government improve the security situation in the country and create its own security capabilities, was expanded beyond the UN Security Council Resolution 1510 and adopted by NATO in 2003, and strategic command control and co-authority was adopted by NATO. In addition to NATO members of the ISAF, many countries from around the world have also contributed to this operation. The Republic of Turkey has been part of the ISAF operations from the very beginning, under the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 722th decision on October 10, 2001, for the Afghan people, who are friends and brothers with the ties from history. Turkey has taken over the leadership of the entire operation twice, when the leadership of the operation was transformed by countries. After the operation was divided into regions, it was first transformed with Italy and France, and on November 1, 2009 to January 1, 2015, the Kabul District Command alone took over. As did our country in the 1920s and 1930s, in the 2000s, as part of NATO's missions, it established the Veterans Military Training Centre for the Afghan National Army and police in Afghanistan, Turkey, and NATO Education Mission in Afghanistan. Turkey has not limited its contributions to defence and security, but has also done reconstruction and development in Afghanistan. To this end, he has established two regional zoning teams in the Vardak province, one near Kabul, and the other in the Cevizcan province, and carried out watering, service, school, hospital construction, courses and training activities that will benefit the Afghan people directly. In this difficult period, our support in every area, including military, economic, social and cultural, has been a separate place in the hearts of the Afghan people. These contributions are a natural consequence of our long-standing relationships with Afghanistan, which we make a tradition of helping each other through difficult times. In addition, our duties under the ISAF have been in harmony with our obligations stemming from alliance solidarity and the North Atlantic Treaty. As a result of the progress made in Afghanistan, the country's security and responsibility was transferred to Afghan authorities from 2011-2014 to the most stable areas, while the Afghan army and police were considered to be able to take on more responsibility. Thus, the Afghan national security and defence forces took responsibility for security throughout Afghanistan. As a result, NATO finished Operation ISAF in 2014, going to change the character and scope of the operation. Instead, according to decisions made by NATO heads of state and government in 2012 in Chicago, and at the peaks of Wales in 2014, Afghanistan was agreed to launch a new mission that did not fight in Afghanistan after the end of the ISAF. The mission was launched on 1 January 2015, again led by NATO. The mission provides training, counselling and assistance to Afghan national security forces, who are responsible for security throughout the country. The new mission includes NATO countries, as well as fellow volunteers such as Azerbaijan, Georgia, Albania, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are not NATO members. As with Operation ISAF, Turkey has also taken important positions in the Determination Support Mission, and continues to take over. In this case, Turkey has handed over security responsibility to Afghan security forces for the Kabul Regional Command, this time becoming the framework country of the Kabul region for the Determinated Support Mission. This mission includes training, counselling and assistance activities, as well as co-ordinating the activities of other participating countries in the Kabul region. Under the new mission, the total staff in Afghanistan is more than 700. In addition, the operation of Kabul International Airport, which is the most important gate to the world, the Afghanistan (Afghanistan), which is difficult to access to, even for geographical and political reasons, was claimed by the Turkish Armed Forces until 2017. As part of the mission to operate Kabul International Airport, members of the friendly countries of Azerbaijan, Albania and Macedonia are also under the command of Turkish Armed Forces elements. In this scope, all expenses, including salaries of Azerbaijan and Albanian personnel, are covered by our country as well as the logistical support needs of Macedonian personnel. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are pleased to take on the responsibility that Turkey has taken on in Afghanistan, with the Jihad of historical friendship and brotherhood. These responsibilities, which we assume, also make concrete the importance of our country's international peace and protection. As a matter of fact, Turkey's efforts to preserve both the military and political activity of the Alliance and its important roles are being given both by allies and NATO partners, as well as by countries. We run the largest foreign aid programme in the history of the Republic in Afghanistan, and we see our country's contribution to NATO's Determination Support Mission as a natural consequence of our bilateral relations with Afghanistan and our active foreign policy in the region. With that understanding, Turkey has earmarked $150m for Afghanistan's reconstruction and development at the Tokyo Conference in 2012 and at the Brussels Conference in 2016. Our contribution to Afghanistan was not only on two levels. As a matter of fact, the Ankara process, which is a trilateral co-operation mechanism between Turkey-Afganistan-Pakistan, is a multi-effective initiative that was launched by us in 2011 along with Afghanistan to encourage the Afghanistan-based regional cooperation. During the first week of my mission to the Ministry of National Defence in Afghanistan, I once again expressed Turkey's approach to resolving Afghanistan's problems with Pakistan, stressing that the only interest as Turkey is in the friendship of Afghanistan and Pakistan. We have repeatedly expressed that many countries involved in these problems, especially with other experts in the region, are not actually trying to solve the problems of the region. We have established that the issues between Afghanistan and Pakistan are primarily the first choice to resolve the issues between them on the basis of friendship and brotherhood. In the absence of this, we have once again told them that Turkey will be willing to mediate at this point, that Turkey will continue to make efforts only to serve the common interest of Afghanistan and Pakistan without discrimination between the two countries. As a result, Turkey, which has been contributing from the beginning to efforts for the establishment of peace and stability in Afghanistan, will continue to be with the Afghan people as long as it needs us in the sense of friendship and brotherhood in the future. With these thoughts, I would like to commend the government's scope and time to Turkey for allowing foreign armed forces to be sent abroad as part of NATO's determined Support Mission in Afghanistan, to participate in the mission for the same purposes, to be allowed two years in accordance with the government's rule of government, which will provide for them. At this point, I know that all our parties have the same understanding, and I thank each and every one of you, each and every one of our groups for your support, and I salute the High Council with the most heartfelt love.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0148par0202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I promise the bands. The first speaker for the groups is İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Ihsanoglu.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0149par0207	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the issue of the Constitutional Movement Party on January 3, 2017, which has been organised by the esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister of the National Ministry of Defence, representatives of the Ministry, the Turkish Armed Forces, the determined Support Mission for NATO to perform in Afghanistan and its continuation. Mr. President, I'd like to be in a happier mood as we begin a new year and present my first speech, but unfortunately we've lost 39 people and our guests in the wake of the brutal murder that took place in Istanbul Middleköy on New Year's Eve, so there's no other way to be in a mood for him. So, in the beginning of my words, I would like to offer my condolences to the families and to their country, as I pray for mercy from God to the victims who die, in the hope that this will be the end. Again, before we begin my words, I would like to ask Mr. Ismail Kahraman, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to seek immediate healing and to return to his health and join us as soon as possible. Mr. President, dear friends, I'm going to go over three things in my speech. First, friendly country, brother country Afghanistan; second, terrorism; third, support of Turkish contribution within NATO and the controversial thesis. On the first issue of Turkey-Afganistan relations, and on the strategic significance of these relations, I would like to say that there are ancient relations between the Turkish nation and the Afghan nation that have roots in history. These have continued as two neighbouring nations, two nations, and two states in Central Asia. The new Afghan state, which later emerged as an independent country in 1919, began at a very important point from that day -- as Mr. Minister pointed out -- when its relations with the Republic of Turkey were still at birth, and was the first to recognise the Republic of Turkey, which was formed in 1919. One of the first decisions to come out of this parliament was the opening of a Turkish diplomatic mission in Kabul. In fact, the first representative was Abdurrahman Saman Bey, an Afghan-based Turkish officer. In 1921, this Parliament established diplomatic relations with the Turkish-Afganistan Alliance Convention, between Turkey and Afghanistan, and was appointed our first ambassador there. Those who go to Kabul know that the largest building of poverty and residence there belongs to the Turkish poverty. It's a gift from the government that day. In that sense, since its establishment between Afghanistan and Turkey, there have been very important relations since 1919, and the Turkish human has made significant contributions to the establishment of modern Afghanistan. For example, when the university was established in Kabul, when the Darulfun was built, the Kabul Darulfün was built through the example of İstanbul Darulfun, and the teachers of the Istanbul Darulfun had gone and established the medical facility there, and they had established other schools for many years, and the hospital established there still has the name of the Turkish physician who was the founder. The relationships that continued during the 1910s continued until 1979. Unfortunately, the Soviet occupation has caused Afghanistan to fall into a very bad situation and has expressed that Afghanistan has become the focus of terrorism. As we stand on terror today, we need to remember that while we fight terrorism, we have to understand well where terrorism comes from in the 20th century, because in the 20th century, Afghanistan is the most important transforming place in the history of terrorism. In the 20th century, the threats used as a pawn in the hands of dark forces began immediately before the First World War and continued throughout World War I, but its scope was narrow, its goals were destroyed. When Afghanistan arrived, the war on the name of jihad began in Afghanistan, and the color and size of the work changed. After the withdrawal of the invading Soviet armies, driven by the zeal of certain global and regional actors, the MPs who fought in the power of power returned to their clients and tried to shoot them this time. He's got something painful like that. In that sense, the importance of the terrorist movement in Afghanistan is very important, so you have to understand it. As I have just stated, before the First World War, the First World War exploded when the Archduke of Austria was assassinated. During the First World War, the Ottoman movement was the biggest threat. The Bedouins, who blew up the Hejaz railways in the Arabian Peninsula, received those weapons, explosives and ammunition from British intelligence and Lawrence of Arabia. In that sense, there's a huge difference between the acts of terror and the acts of terror that began after the withdrawal of the Soviet Union after 1989. With the zeal of global and regional factors, a new form of activity begins, a type of terror begins, and acts of terrorism in the name of jihad take many global dimensions. Now, after the Soviets withdrew and the Soviets were defeated by the Mujahideen's efforts, by the war, the Taliban came to power, and this time the terror forces, such as Al Qaeda, et cetera, have gone further. Now, for example, you remember, at the point where Al Qaeda was attacked by New York on September 11, 2001, the difference between that terror and the previous terror is very important, and on October 7, 2001, the United States took military action against Afghanistan as part of its anti-terrorism policy. Under UN Security Council decisions and the results of the Bonn Conference, the International Security and Aid Force was formed in 2001. The strategic command, control and co-motive of this force, the ISAF, was assumed by NATO in 2003. Now, on October 10, 2001, when the 57th government was in power, it was brought to this great parliament, where it was brought to its first thesis, which is the basis of today's thesis, and it was on October 10, 2001 that Turkey was allowed to participate in the ISAF. In October 2001, the National Movement Party supported this statement by sticking to its principles during the General Assembly talks in October 2001. On that day, October 2001, during the discussion of this parliament, the deputy leader of the National Movement Party had said: "Turkey must take on a mission to discuss the future of Afghanistan after the war. Our deputy leader of the group said so. Dear friends, despite the criticism and objections of that day, this attitude has been met, and our country has taken significant steps in the stability and development of Afghanistan. We also found that in those days it was necessary for Turkey to launch a global mission in the fight against terrorism in order to preserve our country and nation integrity, as an MHP, we have the same opinion today. We wish today that our government should develop measures and co-operation that will ensure that Turkey stays with our country in the fight against terrorism. Today, Turkey is alone in the fight against terrorism. NATO is not standing by Turkey. We went to NATO in Afghanistan, we contributed, but NATO, today, does not support our multi-ethnic terrorist war. In that regard, these matters need to be recommitted. Starting in 2001, our country has long ruled the ISAF Command and the Kabul Regional Command, contributing personnel to the NATO training mission in Afghanistan. He established the Veteran Military Training Centre at Kabul Regional Command, established two zoning teams in Vardak and Cevizcan, and performed important services. Our army has not been fought in Afghanistan and will not be found anymore. And in a moment, I'm going to explain how important it is to participate as an illegitimate force by not being a combatant. Operation ISAF was completed on 31 December 2014 by NATO heads of state and government at the 2014 Wales Summit with the 2012 Chicago Summit. The Determination Support Mission, launched on 1 January 2015, is not a combative one. This mission aims to provide training, counselling and assistance to Afghan national security forces and security institutions, which will take full responsibility for security throughout the country. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been extended to 2020 by the decision taken last July at the NATO Warsaw Summit. We support this decision and the continuation of the mission as an MHP. Mr. President, when the esteemed MPs first arrived here in October 2001, when the 57th Government first arrived in 2000, there were huge objections from the ranks of opposition -- there were others at the turn of power -- but the 57th Government and the MHP passed this thesis here. But how did he do it? He spent it unofficially, so it was a very accurate decision to send a non-combatant force, and because if the Turkish military had actually gone to Afghanistan as a combatant, the Turkish military would have been a major disaster, and for Turkey, it would be a huge mistake for Turkey's historical reputation. Such a mistake was not done by this Parliament and the 57th Government. That's admirable, it should be on the record. So we're joining NATO's call, joining international calls, how important the political decision there is. We're NATO members, and we're doing our duty to NATO, but we're doing it on the basis of our national interests -- we're NATO members, we're NATO members, we're taxpayers, we have obligations, but -- we're doing them through a national interest prism. In that regard, Turkey's decision in 2001 was a very important decision. The opposition that day -- I won't name it -- they're in the records -- when he was trying to prevent it from passing -- he said: "This is the kind of step that will alienate Turkey to Asia. If a fighting force had gone then, it would have been alienation, but a fighting force did not go, a peaceful force, a building force, a franchise force, and there was a great service. The government's limitations on our country's contribution in NATO today demonstrates how accurate and accurate this decision is. Since 2001, Turkey has not served to ruin Afghanistan, but to achieve peace and stability, not conflict. In the last decade, I've been to Afghanistan for several consecutive times, as Secretary General of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, and there, from the people of the street to the President of the State, among all the people of Afghanistan, I see that love for Turkey is too great for its reputation, for its services from history, and for its services from the ISAF. Here, we're proud of it, and we wish it to be an example. I have seen the Afghan people and state officials express how valuable these services are. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today have demoralised the chairmanship of the Islamic Association for Co-operation Summit, starting in 2016. Turkey currently holds the presidency of this summit. I believe you will contribute to peace and prosperity by mobilising the savings of past years. Mr. President, our wish is that Turkey, as in Afghanistan's example, is to cooperate with international alliances in a healthier way. If this attitude is followed in the multi-facet terror war that we face today, the flag of our country, the mission of our nation, and the weight of our state will undoubtedly move to a more advanced point. As I cease my speech, I salute the High Council, and salute you all. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0150par0233	Thank you, Mr. Ihsanoglu. On behalf of the groups, the second term for the People's Democratic Party Group belongs to Bingöl MP Hişyar Ozsoy. Here you go, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0151par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, on behalf of my party, the HDP, have made a pledge on the Prime Minister's Proclamation to extend the support of the Turkish Armed Forces to NATO's determined Support Mission in Afghanistan for another two years so far. I salute the General Assembly. Before I start my speech, I'd like to say a few words about 2016. I'd just like to repeat here something your friend told him while we were talking to a friend who's backstage, who's currently in the Court. He said that in 2016, not one meteor fell on Turkey, but everything else happened. We had an incredibly difficult, bloody year. We hope 2017 is better, but we know, and it seems that our hopes are empty because in 2017, we will be incredibly difficult, the Syrian war will continue, relations with Europe will become more stressful. I mean, when the red apocalypse is going through a process, and we're going to take each other back to the presidential system, and God bless us all. The meteor may not fall on Turkey's head in 2017, but we can bear witness to some political developments in meteor violence, and we can bear witness because all institutions in Turkey are scattered, there is hardly a functioning institution. There's a notion that even though there is a presidential system, the fundamental problems of Turkey will continue to increase. Dear friends, friends who have been quoted on behalf of both the Minister and the groups so far have discussed significant humanitarian reasons for support for Afghanistan in this NATO context. Friends, it has never been seen of NATO interfering with human concerns in any world country, but it has nothing to do with the truth. Look at the last three interventions he made in Islamic geography: look at Afghanistan, look at Iraq, look at Libya. So Turkey is a NATO member, of course there are some obligations. Under these obligations, he is required, negotiated, offering his contribution to NATO. Now we have no way of sitting down and getting involved in a deep Turkey-NATO relationship. It'll pass anyway, and we know that very well. I just want to point out that the concept of legitimizing these military interventions for human reasons -- the situation that AKP is defending today in such a brutal way -- is a concept that was made within the framework of the Bush Doctrine after 9/11. They were going to bring freedom to Afghanistan, weren't they? In a human sense, they were going to go in there and intervene, and they were going to rescue those Afghan women, especially in captivity. Clearly, it was his sauce, his cover, a military intervention that was being used as much as the Islamophobic world, where he was mobileized, for some reason, for some reason, it was his... they did it. In Iraq, hakiza. Again, when there are military interventions out there, you constantly justify them for certain human reasons. So, when he intervenes in Iraq, I'm going to Iraq, I'm going for that oil. I'm going for the safety of Israel. I'm not saying that there's a dictator in Iraq, which is that Saddam was a dictator, and we don't deny him, but the reason is to eliminate dictators and bring democracy, not to create a more human life. I really think it's coming to the dignity of this House. If he's going to take down the dictators, let him start from Saudi Arabia. There are no other dictators in the world? All sides are dictators, and a very important part of those dictators have already been supported by NATO. I mean, it's all in the record, it's in history. Therefore, beyond such a romantic place, our friend, our soul, our liver, we support it, Turkey has obligations, fulfilling those obligations. There's not much point in legitimizing them for human reasons. By the way, there are hospitals built in Afghanistan, they have schools, etcetera, and I'm really curious about how much of this is now done by what you call the "almost." Mr. Secretary has just claimed them all. You know, they used to build hospitals and schools in many countries under the name of service. I'm asking because I don't really know. Dear friends, I don't want to talk to you today: Turkey-Afganistan relations, NATO-Afganistan relations. I want to talk about Pakistan, which is related to him, which is related to him, but is much more important to Turkey today. Let's talk a little bit about Pakistan, because Pakistan, or rather the word Pakistaniisation, is used in international political circles since 2014, among political scientists, for the sake of Turkey. Hundreds of articles have been written in Turkey as well as on the outside. This is what Pakistan means: you know, during the 1980s -- and it's still going on through the 1990s -- we know that Afghanistan has been involved in domestic politics in different forms for the past 35 years, and it's been constantly used to understand Turkish-Syrian relations with Syria because it has a very large resemblance to Turkey's relations with Syria. Of course, I'm not that old, but I remember, I remember these Ziya-ul Hak. At that time, we were constantly watching channels in TRT 1, then in the 1990s, and there were Mujahids, and there were supporters in Pakistan and Afghanistan and Pashtuns, and there were Mujahids. And we're small, and we're looking at all of this with incredible sympathy. Of course, back then, you would remember songs called "Cive Pakistan" or something like that in the late 1980s, 1990s. What did he do, Ziya-ul Hak? In a very similar way, like the strategic depth of the government of Davutoglu-Erdoğan, Ziya-ul Hak was trying to expand its influence field to include Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran. Again, Pakistani President Kabul said he would pray Friday. I don't know if you can make a resemblance. Your government here reminds us of Friday prayer at Emevi Mosque in Syria. Other than that, as Pakistan deepened ethnic, political, religious, religious contradictions in Afghanistan, it actually deepened ethnic, religious contradictions in its own country -- which I'm about to enter into -- it later became a huge invoice to Pakistan, a boomerang effect, a huge impact on Pakistan. What else? Peshawar became the center of international, selefis, Wahhabis, various fundamentalist groups. Pakistan was sending militants from all over the world from there to Afghanistan. Peshawar looks a little like our Gaziantep in the current context. It's been done. What Pakistani wanted was for a number of Islamist groups close to him to be in power in Afghanistan. In Syria, you know, both the government and our government tried to make a change there through Ihvan, where he set up his basic concept. Other than that, Pakistan was working with the CIA and building training equipment. From Afghanistan to Pakistan, there were about 3 million refugees, and a significant number of them were militantised and shipped back to Afghanistan. Turkey also received around 3 million refugees. We know that at least some of those refugees were militantized, and they were made by the CIA, along with their program for training donuts. The similarities are very, very interesting. What else was done? You know, Taliban militants were armed, trained, funded in Pakistan. Pakistani intelligence was organizing all of this. I mean, I don't want to go here anymore with the connections that MIT has set up with different organizations in Syria, which they call "oversight." Even if this place denies it, the world is talking to the world, so he's talking with his papers, his findings, and that's what's going on. But there is another interesting thing, my friends: Now, at some point, the groups that Pakistan had supported began to turn around and hit Pakistan. I don't know if the opposition parties here -- including us -- have used them as my covens -- but we used the concept of boomerang, and we said, "This way, if you're involved in the Syrian war and support the organization that comes in front of you, it'll come back tomorrow, it'll hit this country." We have mentioned ISIS, El Nusra, and Ahrar-ush Damascus around here. In fact, when we said that, we gave the example of Pakistan -- and I talked about it on this bench myself -- we said, "The future will shoot you. Why would he hit me? Look, there were 9/11 attacks in Pakistan when those militants returned from Afghanistan and shot Pakistan. September 11th was a very critical period, and after 9/11, international pressure on Pakistan increased dramatically. So, they told Pakistan, "This jihadist, cut yourself off from the organizations they call predecessors, because they were fighting the communists at one time, and now they're a pain in our ass. I mean, the groups that we support, feed, grow, are now a pain in our ass. Pakistan said that when it started turning its back on those groups, when the Taliban started sanctioning those groups, you've been using us for 20 years, and now you're going to throw us into a corner like a rag, and turn around, attack Pakistan, and there's no proper government sovereignty in Pakistan, there's a very important part of the countryside in the hands of different organizations right now. That's what we meant by the boomerang effect. Dear friends, unfortunately, at this stage, we don't see this ISIS attack here as a coincidence. Yeah, the outside altars are gonna ruin Turkey's stay, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, The outer altar may always want to stir the country, political responsibility requires: You will take political measures to prevent the interference of this country. Maybe, Turkey has regional, global rivals, enemies, maybe, any country. No? But you will design your own country so that you will recognize and block these threats from the outside in time. It wasn't done. What's done? They said, "We're going to take down Esad." The whole world stopped, so they didn't see it possible, including the United States; they insisted on taking down Esad. They said, they offered direct, direct economic support, logistical support, diplomatic support, military support to all the organizations that came their way. You remember, in Istanbul, there were committees and meetings after delegation. They built dozens of militant breeding camps within Turkey's borders. And they did it as NATO members, and there's also this interesting situation, they did it as NATO members. Of course, NATO's writing them down, that's another thing. You know, these things are memorable, when the time comes, they take the files off the shelves, put them in front of them, they negotiate. After 9/11 attacks, when Pakistan began to change its politics, these organizations turned and shot it. Since when did ISIS attacks start to shake Turkey? Of course, we're taking the thing, and it's more like we're putting the attacks on the HDP people in a corner because they don't usually count these attacks, for example, the first attack on our rally in Diyarbakır, right, our leader, our group's vice presidents, were saved from death, then Kobani came to Ankara, went to Antwerp, went to Istanbul. We ripped our throats out here, we couldn't get a research commission to set up this Parliament, so let's find out what's going on, what's going on? They probably wanted to shut it down, there were dozens of relationships he didn't want to see, and we couldn't. Now, ISIS goes, hits, here with empty hammock, with the same words, we'll get the root of the terrorist, we'll hit him in the lair, we'll crush his head. No one believes. I'm 40 years old, and I've been listening to the same crap for 40 years. People can't enter a crowded environment anywhere in Ankara. Finish what? Get real, don't be a bitch. You have a political responsibility, the safety of every person in this country is your responsibility. And we're not just saying it as a criticism, we're really a lot more than talking about polemics, criticism, because, as I just said, worse things could happen to Turkey in 2017 than a meteor hit, and we're all in it, and we're all worried about it, at least we share our concerns about it. So here we see that all the friends in the four parties share their concerns, even at the point where we almost reject each other politically. When we said that people weren't comfortable in Turkey, they were throwing words at us from here to now: "No, we're all very comfortable, you're the ones who aren't comfortable." Look, nobody's comfortable. The economic crisis will deepen next term, and the civil war in Syria will not be easy to end. There is a regional crisis, the political crisis in Turkey, the economic crisis in Turkey, the global crisis in Turkey, and in all of these crises, four political parties are unable to come together and discuss an issue, any issue in a rational way. After so much camping, so much polarization, now the President is sitting all over the place: Come on, let's be one, let's be united. Dear friends, it is clear that Turkey is trying to revamp its relations with ISIS due to international pressure. They've started implementing sanctions on ISIS, making border controls stronger, so they've started to fight ISIS in some way, which is something we've seen. How eager, not what, we're discussing this separately, but it's clear that ISIS has considered their recent relationship as a threat to Turkey, and is now in psychology: you supported us directly or indirectly, and now you've turned your eyes on us, and now you're selling us? That's exactly what we said the last time I spoke here. In politics, you can't go from flower to flower, you can go from flower to flower, you can go from one flower to another, and you'll get a world of disaster. We don't want to speculate, but it seems that Saudi Arabia and Gulf countries are very uncomfortable with Turkey getting close to Iran and Russia, so there's only one place to write that down. I'm not bringing this kind of charge here, but Turkey thinks it can handle the Saudis, the Gulf, the U.S., Iran, Russia, everyone while we're trying to manage all of it. Dear friends, in a place where contradictions are so hard, you try to manage everyone, and then you become everyone, and then you're in the middle of something. There's a situation like this, preferably the government, where we're very critical of it, and we say it, but we're not in a position to determine it, it's in their own hearts. But everyone in this country pays the political bill, not just themselves, but as a whole people. So let's say it again, we started with Afghanistan, we continued with Pakistan, we brought it to Syria. Next term, it would appear that Syria will again be the axis of Turkey's fundamental foreign policy. We still think it's not too late, maybe it's too late, and we want to hope so, and we say to Turkey: "Go to a strategic change in your policy on Syria." We've repeated it dozens of times here, and we say again: "Don't think of Kurds as a back problem of the Republic of Turkey, build friendly, constructive relations with them. If you had already built it, then ISIS or other organizations would not have had its disasters. There is a fact of Turkey that, as far as we can see, still doesn't know where to go as foreign policy in the deep waters, in the uncertain waters, in the labyrinths. We hope this doesn't get Turkey into trouble. In 2017, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0152par0258	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0153par0262	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter that the government has submitted to the deployment of our armed forces within the framework of NATO's Determination Mission in Afghanistan. I salute the High Council. Afghanistan, our friend, our brother, we shared an important period of history together. There are communities out there that speak our language, the gravemaster, and Afghanistan is a country that has really supported our Liberation War. The tragedy that Afghanistan has been through for the last quarter of a century, even half a century, is truly worth mentioning. First the Soviet occupation, the repelling and ending of the occupation, then the Taliban's donuting to Afghanistan, al-Qaeda's wanting to be a partner in the administration, and then the fall of the 9/11 attack and the Taliban regime, then the transition to a new administration in Afghanistan, the Bonn process, and then the ISAF and then the ISAF today. Afghanistan has been losing blood for almost 30 years, and the country still hasn't been stable. The quarrel in Afghanistan, in Kabul, in Kandahar, and in Sharif, is not over, and if so, it will not end easily. When Obama took over, he had a strategy to end the war on two fronts; one was Afghanistan, and the other was Iraq. He was criticized for leaving Iraq early, and you all know what happened to Iraq. He was going to make the same decision in Afghanistan, just as he was going to, which brought up the Determinate Support Mission. Basically, if the international presence in Afghanistan is put aside, there is a risk that Afghanistan will return to the Taliban era, and that is a real risk. We are determined, of course, to continue to support Afghanistan with all kinds of support for the stability of Afghanistan, independence, territorial integrity, the establishment of good governance in Afghanistan, and the elimination of internal threats in Afghanistan. So we're going to support today's thesis. I hope that one day Afghanistan will become an Afghanistan without international presence and Afghanistan will rule itself. In fact, at some point in the international system, the buffalo system continues. In Bosnia, the buffalo system continued for a long time and still continues, and that's what happened in Afghanistan. None of these countries can decide on their own governments, all of which have been put on top of either an international presence, or they need the support of the international community due to internal conflict and war, and ultimately they cannot govern themselves. These are the failed countries, our friend, our brother, our endless but unsuccessful countries, states that have failed to form a state over their own territory, the central administration, failed states. We're working with the international community to fix that failure. What happened in the void of this government structure in Afghanistan, what drove Afghanistan into this mud? The most important issue in Afghanistan is the radical jihadist elements, which have devastated Afghanistan. These are the main reasons why Afghanistan still can't keep its waist straight today. They wanted to change Afghanistan's cultural character, set Afghanistan's history in the course of normal history and radicalize Afghanistan. After all, part of the Afghan community became hostile to them, and the result was what happened. You see, this threat in Afghanistan has spread to other parts of the world after some work has been done in Afghanistan with international presence. These are the ones that came out of Chechnya, and they began radicalizing it; and it ended, and they came to Iraq, and they confused Iraq. In Iraq, al-Qaeda had become more than the killings of U.S. soldiers, so the Iraqi killing of Iraqis in Iraq exceeded the American rate of killing Iraqis because these radical jihadist groups' unsatisfactory ambitions, their ambitions were devastating to Iraq. What happened then? They destroyed Iraq, prevented a central authority in Iraq, and as a remedy in Iraq, unfortunately, not a decent government, but a religiously-indicated administration proved to be the way out of it, a wrong path was taken. The result was what happened, and Iraq was literally divided into three. These are not finished in Iraq; they have settled in Syria. As soon as the AKP tried to change its regime in Syria and began to create a regime change in Syria, it would have to go to Syria, no matter what. Unfortunately, radical elements, jihadist elements have been supported, driven to this land, and central authority has been weakened as in Iraq, and central authority has been broken. And then they started to pile up in the zones, and they started to dominate the area. First he had El Nusra Rakka, who had his own structure, ISIS, who took Rakka out of El Nusra. See, this threat didn't end here either, it went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and This jihadist head, these radical elements went to Nigeria, they took action to force central authority in Nigeria, they tried to dominate part of the country. They went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Yemen is showing a great presence today, the same jihadist head, and it's not going to end here. Look, let's get this right. As long as this jihadist head, radical head, fundamental religious head goes on, there will be no peace in the Muslim world because they're vomiting blood. It's not the people who have another belief that these people kill, unfortunately, and unfortunately, they destroy people of their own faith, which are the most hostile to Muslims. They are enemies of all faith, enemies of the Christian, enemies of the Jew, enemies of the atheist, enemies of all. These people, unfortunately, are scum in the backyard of our culture. These bastards have turned this whole geography upside down. (CHP's applause) Until this geography is cleared of them, there will be no peace, no peace. Frankly, don't look elsewhere for the threat of this century, these are the threats. Those who set off bombs in Istanbul are the ones who scan people, civilians. It's all over the place. This will be the only way to prevent all of this from happening without having to take care of it. Another issue, I'd like to point out, of course, is that we must know that we cannot overcome this threat on the responsibility of one government. We are prepared to give any kind of support in this matter as long as this head is understood, to understand what they want to do, to understand why these monotheistic groups, these jihadist groups, these fundamentalist groups, these fundamentalist groups, are fighting, and to develop a new strategy. Let the structure of the MIT be done according to them, and let psychological new centers be established in the Ministry of Religious Affairs, and let the Ministry of National Education develop a new teaching about them, as long as there is a comprehensive struggle, we will be the flag of that struggle. One of the most important issues he passed on to 2017 in 2016 is, without a doubt, the Cyprus issue. See, from January 9th to January 11th, the two leaders will hold talks in Geneva, which will include the garantator countries, Turkey, Greece and England. Cyprus has come to a critical stage. We can't or shouldn't accept the closure of Cyprus under any circumstances. In particular, we cannot give up such a place as this, the pearl of the Mediterranean, as a ship, as a symbol of a Geography that dominates the Middle East. Cyprus is essential. See, land concessions are being made more than ever before. We refuse, we say, there is no such thing, we are not understood in anything until we are understood in everything. We have accepted 29.2 percent. Negotiations are not yet over; bipartisanity has been diluted, 80-90 thousand Greeks coming up from below. More importantly, the guarantee system has been watered down, the guarantee system is unpredictable. I don't know how many times we've said this on this stand, but we're saying it again because we've come to a critical stage. The term after January will now be either the end of it or the end of it. Unfortunately, we don't want to cover it with compromise. The Foreign Office has done serious work on Cyprus for years, years; the military has been involved in this; the Turkish people, behind it, have spent billions of dollars, and more importantly, we have ideals and land there. Now, either you give land, you get rid of land, you don't take property, you don't give property, you don't give land, you don't give refugees, you don't give the others, but in this Cyprus, we both pay compensation for heavy property, and we accept Greek people in our midst, we accept 80-90 thousand Greek, and we call it the Turkish State of Northern Cyprus, just the Turkish Republic of Cyprus. You know what it looks like? It's like calling one man's regime the presidency. (CHEERING) Please, let's be serious. We say Cyprus is a national issue. We'll keep a close eye on these calls. Of course, we support a comprehensive solution to Cyprus, no one doubts it, but the comprehensive talks in Cyprus must not return to the process of resolving Northern Cyprus. There's no going back. I personally am concerned because we are concerned about Cyprus as we see a policy that the government says but does not stand behind but is famous for its return. Whoever understands this, we're concerned, concerned about our country because we're on a path that can't be undone. There will be a second issue in Geneva, Syria talks again in Geneva, the second critical issue. The Security Council made a decision on December 31st, 2016, on the last day, with a unanimous vote. Basically, we said positive things about Russia and Turkey's meeting in Moscow, and then the AKP's return, but what is good for Turkey is good for Turkey. The Security Council resolution, which included that declaration, came out. There's only one sentence in the Security Council resolution, it's not spoken at all, it's always mentioned the Astana meeting, as if all the talks after this are now being made in Astana, not Geneva. No, on February 8, 2017, Syrian talks will take place between the regime and the opposition in Geneva, under the supervision of the United Nations Security Council and under the commitment of the United Nations Special Representative to Syria. That's got to be well prepared. Syria's unity, pitch, territorial integrity is of great importance to us. Syria, our neighbor; we all see how instability here affects Turkey. The next important issue in Syria will be the first conflict zone in the event of this ceasefire. Idlip is next door to Hatay, and the wave of migration from there will completely change Hatay's character, and there will be other talks about Hatay. Please, we must resolve this matter within the scope of Syrian territorial integrity, before we change the subject of Syria, before we become more obsessed with Assad. By this time, Turkey has, unfortunately, sided with Syria to change the regime in Syria, now it must side with those who want Syria's territorial integrity, the territorial integrity of Syria, the recovery of terrorist organisations, the removal of it is vital for us, and we must also be determined. Another issue is one of the most important issues given to 2017 by 2016, our relations with the United States of America. Look, it's always passed away as if it doesn't exist, as if it doesn't matter; when we look at the explanations, when we look at them from the top screen, it's like they don't matter. In Syria, it is important that the United States of America contribute or harm it will do positive or negatively. The Syrian case seems to have been handed over to Putin (A) today, but if the United States of America feels that it is out of the picture, its brakes can be hard. Please, let there be an inclusive discussion here. Turkey can't take the talks that it's done only correctly, after all the losses, that it's placed on the right axis in Moscow, and now that it's allergic to other things, the United States can't pass it on to the United States. See, this is a global power. The new administration takes over on January 20th, and then one of the first files in front of it will be the Syrian file. The Syrian file is waiting for us. At the Moscow meeting, we know that the United States of America is looking from the sidelines. We also know that they have put the Security Council's decision back in the name of Geneva. Let's know these facts and act with facts. This is not a foreign policy fantasy world, please. Another issue is relations with the European Union. Relations with the European Union basically... have been decided by the European Parliament, you know, to freeze negotiations, to advise, but the Council of Europe has not listened to it in any way. But why would they do that? There are two issues, one, yes, they want to keep Turkey at a distance, they may not want to be a member, they don't have any intentions, they don't have one now. Besides, after Turkey brings in the presidential system, it's already throwing out the Copenhagen Critters. They will no longer be able to open any chapters, and perhaps even close the open chapters of the European Union and remove Turkey from the European Union, the Council of Europe, and NATO.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0154par0279	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0153par0280	Two important issues in our relations with the European Union, first of all, what is the silence in this European Union? You have to understand why they're quiet. They're quiet because they want to know what talks on Cyprus have been dragged into. They want to see how the talks on Cyprus will go. This is important, so it's basically the course of talks on Cyprus on one foot of silence. As the process continues, they do not want to make Turkey antagonize and push Turkey out of the playground. Second, what you call the presidency is what we call the one-man regime. They want to see where this is going. Please, we'll tell you not to take so much of the world. After all, we're all in the same boat, and we're all losing. The most important thing that awaits Turkey in 2017 is the coming of foreign direct investments, the reviving of tourism, the growing trust in Turkey; peace in our country, peace in our homeland; not dragging Turkey into tensions. I think -- because it's directly related to outside politics -- one of the most important things is that you give up that presidential love, because it's going to hit us against the wall in foreign policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit02spe0155par0285	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0155par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the negotiations of the Prime Minister's thesis, which was given according to Article 92 of the Constitution. The government is in place. We continue our speeches on behalf of political party groups. Last speaker on behalf of their group, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0156par0008	Mr. President, we have taken a pledge from the EC PARTI Group to participate in the mission of foreign armed forces for the same purposes, in which Turkish Armed Forces are being sent abroad as part of NATO's Determinated Support Mission in Afghanistan and its continuation, to be allowed to participate in the Ministry of the Constitution for two years on the basis of its return to Afghanistan, as part of its return to Afghanistan. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, the valued MPs are surrounded by Balkans, Caucasus, Middle East and North Africa in a region where three continents meet. Because of this geopolitical position, our country has been at the center of events that have affected the world from this region for centuries and has played a significant role in the developments that have shaped history. Our country has long-standing historical, cultural and diplomatic relations with countries in different parts of the world with its long-standing background. The solidarity required by these relationships is still expected from our country. NATO membership is the key element of our country's international security and defence policy. NATO is also one of the key elements of our identity in foreign policy. The Alliance operates many missions and operations from Kosovo to Afghanistan for the purpose of securing stability and peace across the European Atlantic region and beyond, contributing to international confidence and stability. As it is known, one of the countries where we have historical ties and close relationships are contaminated is Afghanistan. The two countries dating back to the pre-declared period of the Republic had a different meaning, as Afghanistan was one of the first countries to recognise the government of Ankara. With the growing proximity after the declaration of the Republic, the relationship is based on mutual respect and friendship due to co-operation until today. Turkey has always supported the national unity, integrity and independence of Afghanistan. Afghanistan has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas that have allowed the Afghan people to live in peace, stability and prosperity as long as the Afghan people demand it. In the past 35 years, the International Security Aid Force (ISAF) has been established for Afghanistan as part of the 2001 Security Council resolutions issued by the United Nations Security Council. The goal of this force is to help the Afghan government improve the security situation in the country and create its own security activities. In 2003, the area of responsibility for this force was expanded beyond UN Security Council Resolution 1510 and Kabul. The strategic command control and co-motivation of the force was assumed by NATO. In addition to 28 members of NATO, many countries from Latin America to Oceania have also contributed staff to the Operation International Security Aid Force. About 50 countries work together in Afghanistan for the establishment of peace and stability. One of these countries, the Republic of Turkey, was also part of the ISAF operation from the very beginning, under the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which on October 10, 2001 adopted friends and brothers for Afghanistan. Mr. President, it has been decided that under decisions taken at the summits of NATO state and government heads in Wales on May 20-21 2012 in Chicago, on 4-5 September 2014, a new mandate will be made for Afghan soldiers and police to be trained for a period of time, both faster and more demanding for the development of soldiers and police, as well as for the international community, which ensures that Afghan people and state are not alone in the process. The mission was launched on 1 January 2015, which will be led by NATO, called the Delegated Support Mission. There will be no opposition activities under the mission, and training, counselling and assistance for high-level units and headquarters will continue in the same way for the next two years, as in recent years. In the meantime, security responsibility across the country will be fully assumed by Afghan security forces. Dear lawmakers, as a result, Turkey will be with the Afghan brothers as long as it needs and will continue its contributions to Afghanistan as long as it needs, in the framework of special and long-standing relations with this country, and in the general understanding that the resilience in Afghanistan will be a threat to the entire international community, starting with the region. As I complete my words, I express my gratitude to all our heroes, our policemen, our government officials, who have ever represented and served our nation in different countries and geography, and who are still in charge of their mission, and to those who have lost their lives, with mercy and gratitude. With these feelings and thoughts, the Deliberate Support Mission of Afghanistan, which is important for the peace and stability of Afghanistan, and I salute you all that we consider it appropriate for the foreign armed forces to be in Turkey to be deployed abroad and to be part of the mission for the same purposes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0157par0018	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of lawmakers who have requested a word on their behalf. First speaker on behalf of him, Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0158par0023	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been given a very valuable speech today on the grounds of the Turkish soldier's presence in Afghanistan. Thank you, dear orator, for sharing these thoughts. It is, of course, the name of a nation that has not stood in its place, but has expressed a dynamic way of life as a cultural practice, which begins with the rule of war, and is crowned with the court's trial. In this nation's stateization process, in the course and flow of history, there have always been more than one state in a different geography. The Turk has never been satisfied with a single state, has had different states at the same time in different geographys, and beyond that, the Turkish military, which is the expression of Turkish conscience and humanity, which is an organized body to bring peace, peace, brotherhood to humanity, accepts the tenth system as the date of the throne. From 209 B.C. to 209 B.C., the Turkish army took over the mission at the point of ordering the world, bringing justice to humanity. This desire, this thought, has inspired poets and poets. This is the Turkish army that broke off Ya Rabb-i....... whose enthusiasm for those who came from the conquests made sense....... and the Black Sea looked and wrote the song of the Turkish flag on the flag.... after the help and humanitarian rescue of the oppressors of the era. Why? Because the Turk went there because he was expected. In Bosnia, where the same Turkish army went and served with a sense of value to humanity, an honorable Turkish officer who received news that an elderly aunt was also upstairs when she was being handed out help, and when her commanding officer took the aid bag to her door on the terms of that winter, I knew that you were Turkish and would come. Yes, these are facts, not speeches to promote Turkish soldiers and their army, in the spirit of time; these are facts, these are experiences. In the Turkish military's civil democracy relationship, civil politics-military relations, the understanding of the junta that infiltrated the soldier also had elements that threatened the Turkish nation with coups, such as persecution of humanity, at different times. Our children have succeeded in seeking someone's childhood and have succeeded. On the night of July 15th, the failure of illegitimate children took place, but none of them, in the heart of the great Turkish nation, have reduced the furnace of Muhammad, Mehmed, and with the conscience of the honorable Turkish soldier. As of today, Afghanistan has experienced different traumas with many different emotions, and imperialism has become the front of the East-West Bloc in the years of the Cold War. The focus that feeds the Green Belt Project and political Islam and radical religious organisations in the conflict and camps, when faced with the great threat that had come to him in the day, did he notice the mistakes he had made? But as of today, it has been, like a laboratory, the same idea of peace, peace, brotherhood for mankind, where the Turkish army, the military, is focused on service, understanding education, and to make value for human beings. Dear lawmakers, Turkish modernization is based on military. Modernization and military relations have always been defined as a one-type or dictatorial regime, as someone claims, as understanding of the secular secular understanding of life; intellectuals, politicians, have always seen it that way. But, I want to express a concept as a publicist. You're going to the hospital to visit a patient. They say he was discharged yesterday. Where does the concept come from, and why does it come from? Why does the patient get better and get out of the battalion? Look, in health, in medicine, in medicine, in science, in modern life, the military, in the same way, has been the great service of medicine, in political life, of property, but after Turkey has developed a middle class, trained in civilian politics, which cannot fit into war, medicine, property, everyone has had to return to its original elements by adopting its role in some way. Here we are, a representative of a political understanding that turns to this fundamental element in the relationship of nationalism and democracy and is happy, applauding and encouraging as we see it in international work, in the military barracks and in the universal values of justice, law, with understanding on the side of the people. Time, right, truth can be found. Dear lawmakers, another issue I would like to share with the General Assembly: Mr. Home Secretary today stressed the fact that one of our biggest problems in dealing with terrorism is apartments and rent-a-day homes. On March 3, 2016, the National Movement Party Group submitted a question motion to the Ministry, and we shared a report, which belonged to my individual and referred to the control of the apartments and the problems that affected the daily lifestyle, not only to give the Ministry of the period a question motion, but also to the relevant bureaucrats. Now, we don't mean we're right? The National Movement Party doesn't mean that only when the political position of executive, the power line, the bureaucracy, what the opposition says, don't approach it through nonprofit, the opposition is not part of the problem with the constructive opposition, but when the resolution presents policies that create proposals and produce values, the parliament's metaphor will have more meaning. But there's one thing that we've recently noticed, Mr. Minister, is that there's a harmonisation and co-ordination problem between the way the political vision performs and the bureaucracy, which is its enforcer? We mean, in the sense of government, in intelligence networks, especially in the general public bureaucracy. I'd like to address the bureaucracy from here: the day is not just the day to be the head of the general office, the undersecretary, the office president, to protect the law enforcement officer. In unison, every authority belongs to a person who actually wears a shirt of fire. Here, working nightly, day-to-day, of course, is our primary task, but the work of action, the work of the AR-Ge, the kitchen work, the strategy, the plan, the program, and the visionary approach is as meaningful as action in the field, my friends. We came here last night, we serve you. I respect the bureaucrats who say, but please sleep, brother, as Deputy President Erhan Bey put it, as Mr. Group President Erhan Bey put it, sleep, rest, get up, get up, get up, work healthy, and the proposals of the Nationalist Action Party in this study... look, I've just mentioned only the appetizers, not to mention the proposals of the President of the National Movement Party's group on Tuesday. Let's work together on the concept of anti-terrorism action and the problems of Turkey, which it has established today. The approach strategies on the matter will make politics very valuable. I've done it, and it's more the days when your understanding of what we can do together than I know. Not in the so-called rhetoric; what can we do together in the truth, in the act; how can we walk together, and in the common mind arise, and by breaking this siege into a healthy, peaceful future, how can we carry our generation, our future, our government, on behalf of the nation in which we carry the power of power? We're going through days when every element from public bureaucracy to university, from intellectuals to civil society should look for answers to that question and produce something in its own field. Political institutions also have a obligation to consider these productions, I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0159par0031	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Second speaker on behalf of Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0160par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we're talking about sending troops to Afghanistan today under NATO, but our government officials say they're actually done with NATO, and they're on their way to the Shanghai Five. In fact, this is an approach to our recent foreign relations, our foreign policy, our international relations, which, in fact, seems to be pumping a view into the public as if it were at a crossroads. As you know, we've become completely troubled by peace, peace outside. From the point of the neighborhood, we've become completely troubled by our neighbors, and our relations with Europe, especially through the wrong Syrian foreign policy, are now, in fact, isolated, alone and in this sense, seeking a solution in a country other than NATO, and we have a foreign policy that gives Russia all kinds of privileges, all kinds of opportunities. Dear friends, when you say the state of Afghanistan, the relations of Afghanistan and Pakistan, today, our relations in Turkey and Syria, are very close, very coincidental. You know, earlier, during Russia's intervention in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda forces were unfortunately supported by Pakistan to fight against Russia, and again politics were carried out over 3 million refugees from Afghanistan coming to Pakistan, but one day when Pakistan had to strategize Al-Qaeda, Al-Qaeda started to strike Pakistan, turning like boomerang. Today, when we look at the same resemblance, we see similar relations with ISIS. Turkey, unfortunately, in order not to allow an end as it did in northern Iraq, in Rojava, today, while we are doing $12 billion in foreign trade with the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, while economically doing a large part of our exports there, a war project has been launched against the Turks today in Rojava. As we look at it, not a single pebble had been thrown into Turkey from Rojava until now, and although the YPG-YPJ forces and their executives have long expressed their desire to develop friendly relations with Turkey at every turn, unfortunately, close relations with the Turks were not accepted, the Kurds had a status there, the Kurds developed a status with the peoples there; the pluralist, democratic, secular, and their development of a status has been perceived to be a threat to Turkey from a long time ago. And in order to prevent progress there, I'm afraid we've taken on the ISIS scourge. We agreed that the Karkamis-Kilis line was an ISIS transit route, and that's how we acted. Gangs from around the world came, entered Syria from the Karkamis-Kilis line through Antwerp, fought there, and again took the same routes into Turkey, and blew themselves up in many places to harm the people. They didn't just stay with Turkey, they blew themselves up in many parts of Europe, causing the worst damage to humanity. Who were they that we called the Light? We've ignored the use of ISIS, the world's most violent army of rapists. What did we ignore it for? Here's Rojava to prevent a Kurdish status or a possible Kobani-Afrin line from being completed. I've just told you, in fact, the Kurdish forces had said in advance, we have no problem with Turkey, we want to develop friendly relations with Turkey. There are some of the most concrete examples in history. Whenever Turkey was trapped in foreign policy, whenever it was raped, it saw Kurds next to it; he saw Kurds at Çanakkale; he saw Karayilan (Kanak) in his defence; but, as I said, a paranoia-like Kurdish hostility pushed us into things that, unfortunately, would not have happened in Syria. When ISIS became a bit of a criminal organization, this time we tried to keep Al Nusra in reserve, next to Ahrar El Damascus, and yet, today, unfortunately, we have large supports under the name El Nusra, Ahrar El Damascus. We know, dear friends, that the powers you call today are three main groups: El Nusra, Ahrar El Damascus, Sultan Mehmet Brigades, three jihadists. All three of them are jihadists, in fact, no different from ISIS. ISIS does not accept the caliph of Al Qaeda. Al-Bağdadi says: "I am a caliph." Others say Al-Qaeda is our successor. With such undisputed organisations, Turkey is still in business. How do we know? Look, Russia demands that El Nusra be withdrawn from there during the evacuation of Aleppo. Therefore, the fact that we live in this stalemate today lies the anti-Kurdish policy that we as a country are building on the basis of both political and economic instability, dear friends. We could be discussing a different point today in Turkey, which has solved its own problem with the Kurds, brought it to a negotiable, controversial point, and, again, developed a good neighbourly relationship with Kurds at the border. Dear friends, we are criminalizing the search for a solution between 2013 and 15 at every opportunity. But what would we prefer to do at the point we're here today? Do we prefer 2013-2015, or do we prefer Turkey's chaos today? Today, Turkey is on the verge of serious chaos, and articles are being written on the earth about us now in the process of collapse? You know, Robert Fisk, author of The Independent, says that Turkey has suffered the most severe depression since the Ottomans. The only way out of this is to develop good dialogue with Kurds; to solve its Kurdish problem on democratic, peaceful ground as well as to develop good relations with its neighbors outside, at its side, with Kurds. Every time there's hostility with Kurds, the destruction of this country begins after that, dear friends. To develop good relations with Kurds, on the contrary, is the beka of this country, the future of this country, of living together. If we don't pay attention to this, if we don't come up with a solution based on this, I'm afraid we're going to have to go to a Syria, an Iraq, or, as we often say, Turkey's insistence on this wrong policy is Turkey's Pakistaniisation, especially our border cities, Antwerp, Hatay, Urbana, Urbana. Dear friends, we need to get out of this as soon as possible. Arresting HDP Co-Chairs, lawmakers, mayors will gain nothing from the war you declared against Kurd today. The way out of this, as I just said, is to bring this problem to a negotiable basis, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0161par0046	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0162par0047	Mr. President, Mr. Toğrul used a sentence in his speech called the war against the Kurds. That's a completely wrong statement.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0163par0048	He says it's the government.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0162par0049	The state of the Republic of Turkey is in a fight with terrorist organizations; whether it is inside or outside, all sorts of people with no ties to terrorism -- Kurds, Turks, Arabs -- are above our heads. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0164par0051	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci, it's been filed. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we will begin negotiations with the Prime Ministerial Court, which has been issued according to Article 121 of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The extraordinary state of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 21/7/2016 and announced by decision 1116, is on Thursday (13/10/2016). It was agreed on 3/1/2017 by the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to extend it for three months, effective from 00. I'll give you what you need. Government? Here. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I'm now reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the lead on the thesis: On behalf of the groups, İsmail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Muharrem Men on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Çanakkale MP on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group; Hurşit Yıldırım on behalf of the Hurşit Yıldırım, İstanbul MP. In the name of the government, Numan Survivor, Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of the individuals, Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıç, İstanbul MP. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of lawmakers who have asked for word on behalf of the groups. The first say belongs to İstanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu (Ismail Faruk Aksu) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Aksu, just a moment. Congressmans, we're starting negotiations with the Prime Minister's thesis. Mr. orator is on the stand, but there's a big hum in the General Assembly, so please stop humming. The buzzing continues, and if the humming continues, I'll have to interrupt the merger. Congressmans, anyone who wishes to have a chat, please step outside the General Assembly. Mr. Aksu, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0165par0082	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to extend the state of emergency from July 21, 2016 to three months from January 19, 2017. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, while waiting for the end of the days of nightmares in 2016, the news of the martyrs to come no longer, the peace of our country, and the comfort of our nation, the terrorist attack on an amusement park in Istanbul's Centralköy has again brought us all to a deep sorrow. To those who lost their lives in the attack, I wish God's mercy, urgent healing for the wounded, and my condolences to our nation. My condolences to the families of foreign citizens who are guests in our country. I call upon the Lord God to bring an end to our suffering. With the pain and threats to the future of society, terrorism is a blow to basic human rights values, democracy, and the principle of rule of law. Without a doubt, terrorism means our presence, our unity, and the common values that hold us together, the desire to break our brotherhood's law and bring our country into a vortex of chaos, and terrorist organizations are trying to blockade our country. Those who want to take over Turkey have clear intentions. Those who want to divide our nation know their game. To make politics aware of these things, to produce politics, is our own obligation to each and every one of us. The main thing, however, is that the staff that governs our country is to act consciously and to create a cure. A picture of Turkey, where terrorists, assassins, bombers can find a place to move, shows the weakness in intelligence, which is the basis of the fight against terrorism. A situation where no one is sure of the outcome shows that the rulers do or do not do their job well enough. In this case, the government must focus primarily on preventive measures. For whatever reason, those in charge of ruling have no right to be lacking and wrongful and neglectful. It is a national duty for the government to follow smarter, more responsible and more unifying policies, while Turkey is fighting heavily with subcontractor terrorist organisations. Only by strengthening the law of unity and unity can you deal with the betrayal you face. No doubt these developments will affect our economic and social life as well as the basic problems that exist if they are not well directed. In the past four months, consumer and economic trust indexes have made it clear that our citizens are concerned about the country's future. Dear lawmakers, having exclusive authority over a certain piece of land is one of the basic criteria for being a state. In addition to being the sole owner of sovereignty over certain boundaries, it is not necessary to meet the basic needs of individuals living in this realm of sovereignty, to ensure the safety of borders in the face of cross-border forces, and to be able to secure peace and order among citizens by force, if necessary, to define an organised structure as a state. States that can't provide one or some of the criteria that make the state a state are often called fragile states. Although this term does not mention the existence of a universal understanding, the general definition of OECD (OECD) is that the state is incapable of providing basic public services such as security, education, health and justice. In cases when the state cannot fully meet the needs of individuals, the fragile state will have the potential to face political, economic and social crises. The fragility of the state is as closely related to the state's legitimacy as it is to its activity and authority. Thus, the increase in vulnerability also means the weakness and legitimacy of the state's efficiency and authority to be questioned. Failure states arise when the central authority is completely dysfunctional, as vulnerability can't be prevented and can't be prevented from reaching a more advanced dimension. Failed states, as in Afghanistan, sometimes arise because all state institutions collapse, sometimes due to civil war, as in Sierra Leone, sometimes because they force individuals to live under very difficult conditions by providing a level of prosperity that is far below their potential. Many academic organisations and international organisations form indexes for the fragility of states. In this framework, the Clumsy States Index of 2016, prepared by a United States-based organisation, revealed how fragile states are based on 12 separate social, economic, political and military indicators. In general, Turkey appears to be the most fragile 79th country of 178 countries, the last ten years of trend has improved in a negative direction, and 14 countries have fallen further in the process. In particular, the vulnerability of the state's security device is increasing, as a result of developments and security concerns, and requires serious measures to be taken, continuing to be taken. The implementation of the State of Emergency should also be discussed in this framework and arranged to address the risks. On the night of July 15, 2016, Turkey faced a treacherous coup attempt. This treacherous attack was committed to all political institutions, the foundation of the Turkish state, and in the final analysis, the entire nation. Traitors of Turkey, who have been in charge of the Turkish Armed Forces and other institutions for years, have pointed a gun at the Turkish nation to set fire to Turkey, to the country and to the nation, and have committed a rare betrayal in Turkish history. The coup to democracy has been avoided by the vast conquest of the Turkish nation, and democracy has been turned over the cliff. Therefore, anyone involved in the July 15th attempt must answer, regardless of name, title, adjective, or position, and pay the price. In the face of this treacherous attempt, 249 of our citizens have been martyred who lay in front of the tanks and held their chests to the guns pointed at them. The world, especially the European Union and the United States, has failed to maintain democratic, modern values in the face of the Turkish nation's struggle for democracy in gold letters. The 15th of July has shown everyone that no political debate has ever existed before or above the country and the nation's support of unity and unity. The 15th of July, again, has revealed how important it is to the Turkish state and Turkish country to be loyal to the country's administration and public officials. Dear lawmakers, after these events, the moves towards Turkey's being left alone in the political area and in the economic sector have begun to follow one another. A lobbying operation has been launched against Turkey under the leadership of the GERPs abroad, while different acts of terrorism, which have been considered to be a single centre of coordination, have come in succession. As a result of unusual developments, the Council of Ministers declared a state of emergency for 90 days in the entire country from July 21, 2016 under Article 120 of the Constitution; the emergency decision was extended for 90 days from October 19, 2016; both decisions were adopted in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As the Nationalist Movement Party, as it is known, we have supported both decisions regarding the implementation of the state of emergency in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because there has been the most extraordinary situation in our country, an attack aimed at the Turkish state and Turkish nation. The struggle with this vile attempt has also been considered possible only under extraordinary circumstances. The state's hand has been asked to be strengthened at a time when Turkey faces the level of threats in order to ensure public peace and dignity, which has been seen as a guarantee and a constitutional measure against focal points that ambush people and want to inflict heavy casualties on the state. A total of 12 laws have been issued in accordance with the state of emergency. Some education and health institutions, student dorms, universities, foundations, associations and unions have been closed, while judicial measures have been implemented for the removal of members of the Turkish Armed Forces and other public employees from public office. In this case, the state officials, who have been relieved of their duties by the public authorities, have thus far been relieved of the duties of 85,645 civil servants. We also see the need for a more effective fight to be carried out by PKK, ISIS and other terrorist organisations and to end the duties of those with connections and connections. Anyone involved in the coup attempt on July 15th among the Turkish Armed Forces and public institutions should be removed from state institutions if they are not willing to accept or comply with the responsibilities of their mission. Of course, these findings need to be based on an investigation and consolidated with investigation processes. Since there are not enough investigations and investigations, it should not be tampered with by anyone's reputation and dignity in vain. The mechanisms of objection must be carried out in a healthy manner, and the demands must be taken seriously, and a common procedure must be set in this direction. In the end, the idea of what happened to the poor again should not be publicized, that public support in the process should not be lost, that belief in the state should not be damaged. Those who are unjustly or unjustly suspended or expelled must be restored to their former position without being victimized. We believe that our government has the power and the ability to identify them, to distinguish between right and wrong, and to capture the real criminal, not to victimize the oppressed, as long as there are administrative errors, not to be acted in a political and ideological sense of protection, and not to be allowed to be a snitch opportunist. Otherwise, the investigations and prosecutions carried out by restricting the right to defence will make it impossible for the criminal to leave the innocent, which will not reveal the truth and damage the fight against the terrorist organization. Despite the intense infiltration of the state, warnings made during its attempt to take over the state, it shows an unpredictable government to be ignored or ignored. Therefore, it is necessary for Turkey and the Turkish nation to build a peaceful and secure future and a strong democracy to be identified by the full extent of the weakness shown under the country's administration, to identify those responsible in every area with intent and negligence. Dear lawmakers, it is the political responsibility to drive out those dark clouds that roam over our democracy and block antidemocratic tendencies. We believe that it is also a historical obligation to strengthen our unity and unity these days. Because the government and the nation are above all political goals. The main thing is to establish a consensus in Turkey's existence and independence, to connect the unbreakable integrity of the Turkish country to unbreakable fundamentals and guarantees, to establish the necessary law in this regard, to ensure the peaceful and secure future of Turkey's and Turkish nation's stay. With this responsibility, we expect political power to reveal all illegal formations against democracy and resolve them within the law. The National Movement Party is a follower of a political line that believes in the rule of law, advocates principles that are indispensable, such as democracy and human rights, and in that understanding, it sees it as an indispensable necessity for the legal state to ensure that justice is granted without delay and to be carefully obeyed in the right to a fair trial. At this point, I'd like to point out the problems and concerns that our citizens face during the six-month emergency procedure, some of which are: the restrictions on the establishment of justice, the freedom of rights of justice, the termination of public officials without concrete findings, the disregard of their rights, the disregard of defence rights based on false reports and complaints, the processing of sub-level officials and politicians on the top staff of the 15 July 15th, and the fact that there has been no action on members of the Sulah Council in the country, the fact that there has not been any action on the basis of the State of the State of Emergency, the misresponsibility of the law, the misresponsibility of the criminality of the law, the charges and the misdeeds. The state of emergency is, of course, a constitutional institution, which must be applied for in terms of conditions, as it is today. However, it is imperative that the practice be carried out by ruling the understanding of law and justice and by displaying a just understanding of right and wrong, which separates the guilty from the innocent. In this case, however, the question marks of our citizens will be satisfied, and a whole sense of struggle will be dominated. The National Movement Party will continue to criticize each development as it carefully supports its rights, law and justice for the benefit of the state and the nation. We believe that Turkey is still at the most traumatic and high risk in its recent history. Although the treasonous coup attempt has been eliminated, the aftershocks continue. The attempt and after-terror attacks have left wounds on our national unity and brotherhood that will take some time to repair. So it wouldn't be right for anyone to pretend that July 15th didn't happen. Dear lawmakers, the main function of the state is to ensure the safety of its citizens and not allow anarchy. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I respectfully salute you members of the General Assembly, saying that we will vote positively for the provision of the state's extraordinary state to extend its hand for three months to strengthen the end of the reckoning.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0166par0097	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Second, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0167par0101	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have a principle that the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers have signed and sent to Parliament to extend the state of emergency once again. Yeah, I've been thinking a lot about whether or not to go in like this. And I've called a lot of friends who know about it, and I've been wondering if I'm making a miscalculation, and I'm having trouble understanding the text I'm reading, or I've been having serious anxiety for a few hours just to see if there's something I don't know about. Dear friends, this is exactly what the coming article says -- let's not read the intro part, probably all groups -- is in all groups -- if we're talking about what we're talking about on purpose, it's just like this: ▪ Turkey's National Assembly's 21/07/2016 resolution, 1116, and it's announced across the country by its 11/10/2016 resolution, and it's continuing in accordance with its 1130-17 resolution, 19/1/2017 Thursday at 01 p.m. The university's 3 months extension, effective at 00, has been agreed on 3/1/2017, on 3/1/2017, under the Council of Ministers' recommendation, dated 3/1/2017 - I want to bring your attention to the Grand National Security Council. Now, today it's 3/1/2017, dear friends. This article came to us in the afternoon. The Council of Ministers did not discuss this issue yesterday, at least the State Speaker expressed it, but the figure base was fulfilled, and the Prime Minister said in the morning: "No, it has been discussed, it has been agreed, it has been signed." If there are signatures, the rest is political ethics, but when was the MGK done, dear friends? The third month is after twelve tonight. After twelve o'clock, unless a recommendation has been made before the Council of Ministers meeting, you're doing it backwards, which means we'll meet here first, we'll vote, we'll vote, and then, in the possible MGK decision, dear friends, a recommendation will be written in the decision book. This is no way to run the Canary Lovers' Association, my friends. Is that even possible? MGK's last meeting date, dear friends, November 30, 2016. There are eight verdicts, it's public record, I'll read it one by one. The first decision is to take terror off the nation's agenda. Second: warning of countries who support terrorism. Third, Operation Firat Shield. Fourth, Aleppo. Fifth: the territorial integrity of Iraq. The sixth is Mosul and Telafer. Seventh, Sincar. The eighth is related to Cyprus. Now, at the meeting in November, it may have been the 500th decision, so I'm looking at the numbers, and I'm looking at the number of decisions, the number of decisions made by the first recommendation of the OHAL, dated 20/7/2016, is 498. The next extension is the decision before the meeting of 30/11/2016, which is 28/9/2016, the number of verdicts is 499. Now, in this case, if each meeting has a decision number, it's on the National Security Council, number 500. The verdict may be at the November 30th meeting, but I just read it, it's not a decision. The 501st decision can only be made at the next MGK, which is the end of January as of its routine date. Now, at the meeting of the National Security Council at the end of January, the Council of Ministers signed the recommendation and sent it to Parliament, sending valuable friends to Parliament. We wish the Speaker health and pleasure, but I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0168par0107	Without those decisions, Parliament can decide, Ayhan Bey.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0167par0108	How?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0168par0109	Without those decisions, Congress can decide.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0167par0110	Dear friends, I mean, for God's sake, don't defend it, don't defend it. I mean, okay, thank you, thank you. I'd like to ask the Speaker of Parliament: What decision of this principle from the prime minister did he send to the groups, seeing which recommendation the MGK has made, and this is the agenda of the General Assembly today? Dear friends, look, this is a typo, a typo, and if there's a lack of shape, we'll say: "What if this country is run so seriously?" I mean, history, numbers, numbers, numbers and stuff, but it's not a big deal. We're not discussing what MGK decisions mean, dear friends. If we discuss them, there are other things that will be discussed. For example, there were earlier words from a consultant and a member of parliament regarding the MGK decision: "We have ignored these decisions," he says. I think we're the most radical party with the most radical ideas about where MGK should be in the political system. But if you're doing a job, you're doing it seriously. Is there anything in the history of this country, dear friends, that has been advised to the Council of Ministers of the Unfinished National Security Council? So you're sure this decision will come out when this meeting is held? Like the draft of the Constitution that we've drawn up here, we open it first, then we share it on social media, then we discuss its contents? Is that how it works? Is that the way it is now? Is this how the government will be run from now on? Dear friends, if this isn't just a matter of form, if I have a conscious writing between the Prime Minister and the House of Parliament, it can't be done so seriously, it can't be done so seriously, it can't be, if they know anything about it, so if there's a meeting of the National Security Council in this country today, please, someone, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the ruling party group, will explain to us any other decisions made on this secret national Security Council. Because obviously this meeting should have been held within the last 12 hours and probably early in the morning, but the Council of Ministers meeting was held yesterday, so come on today. Is there a National Security Board meeting before yesterday's meeting? No. I'm running it through the press, the last meeting is on November 30th. Dear friends, I don't know if it's necessary in these circumstances to discuss the seriousness of the extraordinary state of discussion, of the state of emergency decrees, of which the more careful, the more careful, the more serious the state of the law, the more serious the judgment of the law is, the more sensitive it is, the more human rights-sensitive it is. For him, the name of the radio in Jahanbeyli is, since the name of the radio in the country is, and because the word "capital" belongs to the congregation, the radio can be turned off from the "Chihanbeyli" in, or an association established for constitutional studies, only to contribute to the work of the Commission in Cemil Cicek, the panels, an association that has held conferences, is closed for a foundation that has used the word "Active Society" in order to cover its work during the Commission's term. Dear friends, lawyers are sealed at the door of names. If the relationship between the Prime Minister and the Parliamentary Presidency is being carried out this seriously, the laws of the law can only be carried out by that serious, law-abiding logic. Dear friends, of course, the dimension of this matter is at its precipice level. If there is no explanation for this prophecy, unless there is a convincing, convincing explanation for this disgrace, then this meeting, after all, would require a serious discussion of this matter in the General Assembly, and speaking of it, as far as I'm concerned, but I would like to draw your attention to a few things about what the State of Emergency is causing during the time that I have left. Dear friends, there are many names because in the past six months hundreds of journalists have been taken into custody and a number of others are also under arrest. But a name, for example Murat Aksoy, dear friends of a hundred and twenty days, still no indictment against him. Now, you have evidence in the state of law, you have a serious, strong suspicion about the suspect, there's a possibility that the evidence will be blacked out, there's a possibility that the person will escape, or there's a possibility that the crime will continue to be committed. Dear friends, Murat Aksoy is a friend of many of you who has been writing a review page in the New Dawn newspaper for years. He only wrote in one of the newspapers close to the group because he provided for his living as a journalist and was unable to find work in another newspaper at the time. There are a lot of congressmen among you who have written in those newspapers in the past, and a spokesman for the President who wrote in those papers. Now, if writing in those papers requires connecting it to a terrorist organization, what do you think a journalist's two little children in the home of a journalist, who has no other means of bringing home money, no contract followers, have been eating and drinking for a hundred and twenty days? Doesn't that interest you at all, doesn't that mean anything? For years, this fellow has worked in a very difficult, selfless organization close to you; does that not make you feel anything? Dear friends, of course, there are even stranger cases when you arrest the person first and then wait for evidence. For example, some of the HDP's Manisa County Organization executives have been in court for nine months, some of them 11 months, dear friends, still haven't been brought to trial because there are no indictments. Now, what reason could the prosecution have had to arrest party executives who didn't have time to file indictments for nine months, dear friends? Is the arrest that simple, or is it that much fun? First you arrest him, then you collect evidence, which we understand, three days, five days, come on a month in the State of Emergency... so, if you haven't collected evidence for nine months, 11 months and you haven't been able to make up an indictment, then who is going to make up for it? Dear friends, even when we look at just the last 24 hours, we can see that a fashion designer -- don't agree with his ideas, I have a lot to criticize -- is getting violent in the acronym, dear friends, in the acronym. Civil aviation agencies have international legislation. Now, there's a statement being made today that no outsider has entered the Aprona. Well, then, did the officers in the airport run the violence? If the person didn't hit his own head on the floor and bleed, if that photo wasn't the work of something else, then someone's responsible. My dear friends, look, it's easy to make a eunuch, but they cancel the flights. If you ignore the international regulations of civilian aviation, flight permits will be revoked, and this country will have to pay for it because of your lynching culture or someone's targeting it. There are associations that were closed a few days ago; one of them is valuable friends of the Kurdish Institute. The Kurd Institute is not connected to a political party, at least the lawmakers here know who are doing research on a little Kurdish culture. It is an association where people from different political parties, which are in and out of the dictionary, who organise language courses, who have no other political stances, and are probably closer to Kurdish nationalist circles. The Kurdish Institute is closed. But there's another organization that's been shut down, the Justice for Roboski Peace Association for Earth. Dear friends, this association is a family association founded by 34 people who lost their lives in Roboski, most of whom have the same last name, and most of whom are 15-16 years old. He had only one goal, dear friends, to build Roboski a guesthouse and build a museum there. Now, 34 people have lost their lives, five years have passed, not a single person has been tried, not a single person has answered, but the door of the family's foundation has been sealed; it is an extraordinary decision, my dear friends, that this is the gift of your extraordinary state to Roboskis. Sure, there's plenty of samples, but there's no time to count them all here. Dear friends, if you believe that Turkey will be saved by increasing one's powers, if there is an example in the world, show it to us and we'll know it. Show us if there's an example of the crisis, the chaos, the conflict, the tension, the power over one person, the ability to get one more person out, the unity and unity of the nation, the peace of the community. The only example I know of is Germany, dear friends. Germany is the only country that has tried to get out of the crisis with one man, and the result is World War II. The experience of Germany and Hitler, not only in Germany, but in its neighbours, in the whole region, and in the world. Other than that, dear friends, the right example is handing over authority, sharing authority, taking part in decision making, sharing all social dynamics in responsibility. If we're talking about a common future, if we're still carrying the claim to live together, it's trusting the people we're going to live with, sharing power with them, bringing them into the process of decision-making. But with this decree, obviously, despite the grave error that I just underlined, maybe you'll ignore it, maybe you won't make any explanations, and in a little while, the state of emergency will be extended. Just in the morning, with the Prime Minister's statement, the dollar came closer to 3,53. And what was the best estimate of the price of the dollar at this time, dear friends? The Central Bank? No. The Ministry of Economics? No. No economic institution could predict it, my friends. Look, there are 3,30, 3,40, and finally 3.50. The most accurate estimate of the institution, dear friends, is the President of the Religious Affairs because he announced the exchange rate for the pilgrimage 3.60 months ago. If that's the way the government operates, we'll have to look for the truth in places like this, unfortunately. Dear friends, we don't even have to talk about the economy-trust relationship in an extraordinary way. For foreign capital, for foreign investors, the country's consumer trust index, the investor trust index, what that means, there's no need to talk about it, there's no need to discuss it. But here's the thing. I think it's critical. It is possible that the referendum will be held in a state of emergency, along with this extension decision, contrary to what the Prime Minister had promised to the public earlier. Yes, the leader of an opposition party said there was nothing wrong with it, he said: if life continues, you can go home and vote if you go to work. If you see the referendum as voting, there's no harm, but if the referendum is a process of debate, if it's a campaign process, you're going to arrange a rally, make a sign, if it's a pre-existing process, if it's a process, if it's a process, if it's a calendar that the YSK has declared, if it means something, if it means something, if it means something to be done in an extraordinary way, but if it's a second term, you're going to do it in the Constitution, you're going to do it're going to do it for a second time, a second time in the Constitution, you're going to do it're going to do it in the Constitution. Yes, that's what the Kenan universe did. Under the circumstances of that day, he passed his constitution with a very high vote that was forbidden to say no, and carried himself into the presidential seat as a very competent guardianship office. Now, in order to finish the custody... I don't know what you're describing in the middle of what you're describing as an emancipation, but if you really want to finish custody in an environment where the National Security Council is turned into a child's toy, I don't know who it comes from, but if you really want the state of law, democracy, prosperity, peace, precious friends, in extraordinary circumstances, in the state of emergency, don't let this country pass such a package through a referendum, stand back, object to that. If we have the strength, we have the number, we do the work. If you say so, then you will know that it will be done, and that it will be done, just as it is done by you. Dear friends, the great state is the state that manages and manages to cope with great threats, with the usual methods against extraordinary danger. By sticking to human rights, the safety policy is a great state, based on law, against the threat of democracy, respecting democracy, against oppression, against violence, against attack. But if you're thinking about prolonging the state of emergency at every turn, expanding the state of emergency, turning it into a form of governance, turning it into an opportunity, and keeping the country in a constant war atmosphere, in the tension of war, if you're thinking about eliminating the referendum, you're doing a great deal of harm to this country. Turkey will never have an Isolation War again, dear friends. If you're trying to sell us someone's future war as the Statistical War, the Instance War was given a hundred years ago by this people, and the price was paid by everyone; all faiths, all identities, all ethnic fundamentalists took their place on this front. Either you go back to that soul, you choose to live together with those universal values that are based on that soul, or this country becomes a sacrifice for your personal ambition, and we all lose. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0169par0128	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Third speaker for the groups, Çanakkale MP Muharrem Men on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0170par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the extension of the state of emergency. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we had a general election on June 7th, and our nation did not authorize any party to form a government alone on June 7th, so they said, "Get out, form a coalition and rule the country with compromise." But those who didn't drop the word "national" in their language didn't respect this will, democracy, and election results, and said "The nation preferred chaos." And before the November 1st elections, he said, "Give us power again alone, this environment of terror, violence, chaos, fear." He took power alone on November 1st, but terror, violence, chaos, fear is not over, it's increased. That means people have been lied to. And worse, what happened after November 1st? As a nation, we had one of the most painful nights in our history, and on the night of July 15th, we faced a coup attempt. Fifteen years alone, your government, the result of stability, was a coup attempt on our nation. And this coup attempt was blocked by the standing position of the Turkish Armed Forces, the healthy elements, the discreet elements of the police force, and the media, the Assembly, the political parties, and the nation's determination. After this coup attempt, on July 16th, four parties under the roof of this great House presented a joint statement to the nation. What did the High Assembly say to the nation in this declaration? He said: "The Grand National Assembly of Turkey should not be forgotten that over the years the democratic parliamentary system has developed a parliament that has fought to take a nation out of poverty and poverty and to bring it to the proper level of civilization." Yes, a Gazi Parliament has carried out a democratic parliamentary system. So, what just happened? Why is the Veteran Assembly, democracy, democratic parliamentary system being ordered to be destroyed? And as this Gazi Parliament and its main opposition party, we have given every support to the government in the fight against terrorism, and we said, let's cross these difficult days by Parliament's will. But what did you do? You declared the State of Emergency on July 20th. And don't worry, in 45 days we'll solve all our problems and remove the State of Emergency. You told the nation and Parliament. But we see that the will has been made in a different way, and a new coup law has been implemented. You have investigated a period of unconstitutional unconstitutional and unlawful conduct with this declaration of State of Emergency on July 20th. You wiped out the most important historical institutions in this nation. You've forgotten that the level of state of development means something to the continuity of democratic systems and institutions. You have destroyed these values with the State of Emergency, with the implementation of the State of Emergency, unfortunately. You've eliminated over 100,000 civil servants; you've eliminated the principle of innocence, the principle of the individuality of punishment, the right to a fair trial; you've created a direct, indirect, potential victims with more than 100,000 victims. I'd like to give you an example of our history: the 1909 revolution was very important, and in 1909 a large number of officers were eliminated in the state as they were today, but even that day, even in 1909, this was done with a law that had been passed, you know, under the name of Tenkisat Law and under the control of Parliament. You failed to show the will and courage to do what this nation did in 1909, what this Parliament did in 2016. Now you want to extend the State of Emergency. Look, what kind of State of Emergency are we living in? You know, in September, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner visited Ankara; he also met with the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Undersecretary of State, the Undersecretary of State, the representatives of several NGOs. After that, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner issued a report on October 7, 2016, an important report on the impact of measures taken under extraordinary circumstances on human rights. What does this report say, dear lawmakers? It says that the scope and application of these decrees were not limited to the public sector. Decisions include extensive measures affecting civil society, municipalities, private schools, universities and health institutions, legal professionals, media, business and finance and the families of suspects. In addition, the procedures established under the provisions represent a significant deviation in the context of management and criminal law. In practice, unfortunately, we see that it has been declared against the nation, the opponents and everyone, and the report states that you have undermined the reputation of the Republic of Turkey in the first place, and unfortunately you have undermined the reputation of the Republic of Turkey in the state of law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And after the State of Emergency announcement, the esteemed MPs, we're looking... why was the State of Emergency announced? The State of Emergency was declared to take measures to eliminate the causes that created it. Remember, the State of Emergency is also a legal regime. Terror, violence, and chaos did not wane after the State of Emergency. A total of seven attacks have occurred in the State of Emergency, live bombs have exploded again, and 164 innocent people have lost their lives -- yes, in the State of Emergency -- and hundreds of people have lost many organs, and their lives, their lives, have been destroyed. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Your Honor, so the State of Emergency can't stop the exploding bombs. Look, dear MPs, you want to extend the State of Emergency. I'm going to share something with you from a very recent date. The Justice and Development Party is holding a group meeting on Tuesday (June 22, 2010), and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is speaking. What did he say in 2010, Mr. Erdogan? The terrorist organization strikes in Şemdinli, and the abusers immediately speak from Ankara. Let the terrorist organisation declare the State of Emergency, let Turkey be Turkey again in the '90s, and let Turkey look like a third world country. Someone from Ankara is immediately taking advantage of the terrorist organization. The opposition party, as you know, says to declare the State of Emergency. He's in your character, he's in our power, there's no State of Emergency, he's in your power. From the terror statistics, you'll find that terror has peaked in its state of emergency. The state of emergency deepened terrorism, victimized the people, strengthened the use of terrorism. Wanting to be extraordinary is surrendering to the language of terror. Yes, by extending the extraordinary state, you precious MPs -- for those who say yes to it -- so you surrender to the language of terror, you serve terrorism. Our chairman, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, shared a discovery with the public today. ▪ The terror goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on People are dying, citizens are running out of safety, someone's looking for a raise. Unfortunately, the AKP's main service to the people has collapsed as a result of 15 years of power. Because you handed over all the government's institutions to a gang. The people who die, the people who bend their backs with the raises, the people who suffer, the people who pay the price for everything, but they are not the only ones responsible for those who rule. When the people are afraid of death, they ask the rulers to answer. When the government calls those who ask for an account, it means there's no solution to terrorism. Yeah, well, if it's really making us think of all this evil, then you can't run this country. Your Majesty, you cannot rule this country. As Namik Kemal, who paid the price for freedom in the dungeons, said, I suggest you consider withdrawing from the government of glory. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look what we're experiencing in extraordinary circumstances. Ahmet Şık has been arrested. Among the reasons for the arrest were Ahmet Şık, who was associated with all terrorist organizations, and who was also linked to him. Look at how tragic this situation is, what the State of Emergency has put us through. After the 2010 referendum, you arrested Ahmet Şık, who handed over the judiciary to the gang. Why was Ahmet Şık arrested? For writing the book of the Army of Islam, for revealing the book with all its nakedness. If July 15 coup attempt had been successful, the coup attempt would have been to arrest Ahmet Şık. You have done it today, and we congratulate you. [[!]] Look, Hosni Mahalli has been arrested. Hosni Mahalli, your six-year-old Syrian policy collapsed, you signed the Moscow Declaration, he was a man who defended the provisions in the Moscow Declaration, he was a journalist in prison. Look, Musa Kart, a cartoonist, in prison. He's drawing comics, he's just drawing cartoons. Musa Kart is in prison, but there's a journalist out there who caricatured an ISIS militant who threw rockets at Santa Claus and shared it on social media. Yeah, there's been no action against a journalist from the media. You arrested two young men today; we will not allow ISIS or reactionary gangs in our neighborhoods for defending secularism in İstanbul. We will glorify the flag of secularism in the presence of the reactionaries. You arrested two young people today for saying, "Laklik, brotherhood, freedom, peace" but today the head of ISIS is free in this country, you have taken him into custody before, and then released him. Yes, according to you, all journalists are terrorists, anyone who doesn't think like you is a traitor. Look, you're not doing anything about people who commit hate crimes on social media, who are targeting people because of their lifestyle; you're dividing this country, you're polarizing this country. And you're saying: "They're always deceiving us." The Council of Europe Parliamentary Watch Committee published a report in April 2013. Please look at paragraph 40 of this report. After two years of study there, we saw in Turkey that -- and he means 2011-2013 -- the movement ruled by U.S. imam Fetullah Gulen, has taken on the judiciary and all public institutions and has serious influence on society. An MP friend of yours, who put a critique on this report and criticised the reporter, says: "I will not give his name." Without any evidence of the Laughing Movement, these charges are unacceptable. On top of that, why shouldn't a person who belongs to the Laughing Movement take public office in the state? This mindset, I'm afraid, cannot govern the state, and has left us as a nation facing this heavy picture. Yes, Mr. President, we're in the state of emergency, and no one can tell us that there are constitutional conditions in the State of Emergency. All constitutional jurisprudences, all political scientists, including Mr. Burhan Lamba, are clearly writing in Burhan Lamba, published in 1993 -- you cannot change the constitution in the State of Emergency processes because it undermines democracy that the organs that use extraordinary powers in the State of Emergency have changed with these powers.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0171par0147	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0170par0148	Yes, today in prison, journalists, academics, writers, painters, young critics, media organs have been shut down, freedom of thought and expression has been destroyed, and you, the Constitution, are trying to carry out a very important constitutional amendment in an extraordinary process. Look, we've submitted two motions in the Commission as the main opposition party, call the academics who specialize in the constitutional law of universities, call the representatives of the Turkish Bar Association, call the experts. Let our nation hear the talks in the Commission live, and let the talks of the Commission take place in public, as follows the General Assembly, because we are facing a regime change, a system change, live broadcast. We have made a motion, and he has been rejected. You seem to like the state of the world very much, but in times like extraordinary situations, martial law, changing the constitution can lead to disaster, our beautiful country. Look, because 1971 changes were made during martial law, he never gained legitimacy. The constitution of 1982, which has been discussed in many positive changes and democratic changes so far, is still under discussion, and you are planning to make such an important constitutional amendment in the State of Emergency, even though we are facing a much heavier picture than the 80s and 70s today. Yes, today you want to extend the State of Emergency. So you plan to hold the referendum process and the referendum vote during the State of Emergency. This leads Turkey to disaster, valued lawmakers. You may want to create an OPEC republic, but we want to create a democratic republic, we want to crown our republic with democracy. You're extending the State of Emergency today, and if this package you want to present to the nation -- and the nation will definitely not allow its sovereignty to take effect, it will tell you to stop in this referendum -- your goal is to run the country with a continuous OHAL, but we will have the secular, democratic republic, democracy, and freedoms to the end. Look, you suspended the State of Emergency and the Constitution, you suspended the rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution, but violence, terrorism, chaos is increasing day by day. So we don't need the State of Emergency, we need the usual processes; we need the state of law, democracy, freedom; we don't need the State of Emergency. We have to normalize quickly. Today, with the Constitutional Amendment proposal you present in the State of Emergency, you single out, monopolize, and personalize sovereignty. These people will never allow it. Constitutions are documents limiting power, valuable MPs. If a constitution limits power, it has human rights at the heart of the constitution and that person's birthright, but you don't want that kind of constitution. You have an unconstitutional sense of power, and I'm afraid you're using the Constitution as a tool in a legal way, and you want to take steps towards authoritarianisation. It's legitimate and it's not right, and it never will be. The aim of constitutional supervision is to prevent the arbitrary coming from the merger of state officials, not to cause this dissolution, valuable lawmakers. See, the book "The Spirit of the Law" written by Montesquieu in 1748 is a very, very important work that almost everyone knows. Montesquieu, who has the power to abuse it and to abuse it until it meets a limit, says Montesquieu. Today, the only power to establish it is the Gazi Parliament, which is the parliament, which states that the nation's unconditional sovereignty is to those who abuse its powers, to those who create a period of non-constitutional law, to those who create a period of unconstitutional law, to those who create it. For him, this Parliament, this Veteran Assembly, must say, "Stop and stop." And I say that our country must meet democracy, the state of law, the freedoms, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0172par0156	Thank you, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0157	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0172par0158	Mr. Bostanci, come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0159	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Man said that all journalists are terrorists to you. Again, he mentioned that there was no action on social media agitators, and finally...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0174par0160	Not all of them, according to you, but all of them.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0161	...in 2010, our President-General, based on a statement from Mr. Prime Minister, linked his criticism of the State of Emergency at that time to today, where you are supporting terrorists through the State of Emergency. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0175par0162	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0166	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Male, all journalists are terrorists to you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0176par0167	It's not that, it's those who oppose you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0168	No one has that idea, and no one has that approach.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0177par0169	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0178par0170	I didn't mean the fellow journalists.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0171	We don't make decisions about who's a terrorist, who's a terrorist, who's right, who's fair, who's wrong...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0177par0172	The palace does.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0179par0173	He's an independent judge! That independent judgment.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0174	...he gives courts, he gives courts.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0180par0175	What courts?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0176	No professional group can be considered innocent or guilty because it's just from the beginning. That's our approach. Wherever he is, it is the court that will decide the actual nature of his action against the person. The Home Secretary has just mentioned that there have been transactions on social media agitators, and I don't think there was a Mr. Man here, about 1,700 or so transactions.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0181par0178	Not all of them.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0179	If you also have concrete data that says it wasn't done, please, pass them along, and let the law assess them, I'll call it a call.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0182par0180	You've never heard of it. You don't know it, do you, Mr. Naci?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0181	In 2010, our President must understand the assessment of Mr. Erdogan, who was then Prime Minister, of the State of Emergency from 1987 to 2002 and not only for 15 years, but for a positive effect, but for a period of criticism of the negative effects of the State of Emergency. If Mr. Male had gone east at that time, he would have personal experience as to how the State of Emergency was implemented and what effect it had on civilian citizens.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0183par0182	Now it's worse. Now it's worse.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0183	What we face today is a different situation. As you well know...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0183par0184	Now it's worse, let's go together.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0173par0185	We're all fighting against a gang that's infiltrated various parts of the state and society. The fact that this struggle can be carried out in a fundamental way requires special methods... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in accordance with the Constitution and the law, of course. The State of Emergency has been declared and maintained, and today's extension is in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0184par0190	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0185par0192	Sir, for the record, I'd like to rephrase a matter for the Council. Now, our speaker's speech is the AKP group meeting of June 22, 2010. Our speaker has made no comment, and has expressed the words of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the time: "The terrorist organization strikes at Şemdinli, and the abusers immediately speak from Ankara. The terrorist organization wants to redeploy the State of Emergency. That's your excuse. There's nothing extraordinary about the character of our power. From the terror statistics, you'll find that terror has peaked in its state of emergency. The state of emergency deepened terrorism, victimized the people, strengthened the use of terrorism. Wanting to be extraordinary is surrendering to the language of terror. It's not our friend who said that, it's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0186par0195	Circumstances have changed. You must have forgotten about the coup!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0187par0196	Thank you, Mr. Sky. It's in the transcripts. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I believe you have a request for a statement according to Article 60. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0188par0202	Mr. President, our speaker, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, has just brought up an important matter. At the moment, we live in an OHL procedure that affects all Turkey and leads to many unlawfulness and injustice, and we talk about extending it, but here, as stated by the Council of Ministers' principle decision, the provision of extending it for three months in the Grand National National Assembly has been decided by the Council of Ministers on 3 January 2017, considering the Council of Ministers's Advice Decision No. 501, dated 3 January 2017. Now, last night, the government's spokesman, Mr. Numan Survivor, says that such an extension of the State of Emergency has not been discussed on the Council of Ministers. He says that such a decision has been made today, even though there is no National Security Council meeting. Now, with such a lack of seriousness...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0189par0206	I'll turn on your microphone, complete.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0188par0207	...we are discussing the extension of the State of Emergency at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Either you, as president, please, make a statement about this, or invite the government to make a statement, let the negotiations continue after that, or let them be withdrawn from this thesis, and if it is brought in in the proper manner, we are thinking that the Parliament and Turkey should be treated with this insensitivity.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0189par0208	Well, thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. If the government demands an explanation of the matter, I'll give them my word. However, after the speech of Mr. Yıldırım, who is the last speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group, I will promise the government that the government will consider it there. As the Supreme Court, I can explain to you this: The state of emergency, according to Article 121 of the Constitution, can be extended by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, at the request of the Council of Ministers, not for more than four months at a time. According to Article 49 of the Civil Code, the General Assembly's agenda consists of elements found in Article 49. During the 1st time of those elements, the President's Presentations to the General Assembly are taken place. Prime Ministerial statements are also offered to the General Assembly in the department of the President's General Assembly, the information, opinion, or evaluation of the General Assembly, which is the way of the agenda. As the prime minister reaches the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of Laws and Decisions, and the Court of Presidents of Laws and Decisions will, of course, see if this thesis has the content to carry. What the Presidential Court will look at here is how long this will take, if there is a demand for a state of emergency extension or extension in the Council of Ministers' decision, which is included in the prime minister's thesis. However, Mr. Bilgen and you have made an important point. Since the National Security Council was not convened on January 3rd -- I don't know, of course, you're expressing -- how was such a decision taken in the Council of Ministers' decision as the basis of the decision? You ask a question.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0190par0211	That's right.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0189par0212	I think the government will answer that question when it comes to the government.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0190par0213	I mean, we're dealing with a headshot that's not serious.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0189par0214	Yes, I understand what you're saying. I think the government will answer that. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Hurşit Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0191par0221	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly for three more months since January 19, 2017, when the Turkish Parliament's state of emergency, which was declared on July 21, 2016 and was announced throughout the country, was to be extended to the Grand National Assembly. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I wish the safety of our country, our martyrs who have arrived in the afterlife for the sake of our state, and all the martyrs we have lost in the acts of terror, God bless us, and heal our veterans. Congressmans, why did we take the State of Emergency and why do we want to extend it, I'd like to present it to you. Our country has long faced the threat of multinational global forces and terrorist organizations. They wanted to take away our country's key hand in hand with the travel events, the attempted coup attempt by 17-25 December, and the coup attempt by the traitor, July 15th. We broke all the edited games on the Trip and on December 17th and 25th and on July 15th. After July 15th, all political parties have national will, and just after the coup attempt, I find the joint statement written by all parties in our Veteran Assembly meaningful, and I thank all parties with signatures. The 15th of July is to be claimed by our nation by the national will and the sovereignty of the nation. This means that all together, as one heart, the future of Turkey is to be looked after. I believe the nation's greatest gain is the spirit of July 15th, the national unity and unity. On July 15th, our MPs in Ankara, and our deputies in the constituency districts, all of whom wanted to hit democracy together, and we said: "We will never drop the trust of the nation to the ground." I also thank our citizens who have failed the coup attempt, our President Recep Tayyip Erdoğana, our Prime Minister, our parliament, our NGOs, our media, our security forces, and everyone who is on the side of security democracy. The elected President of our country bombed the elected MPs, this Veterans Assembly, whose heart is based on global forces against national will. That night, under the leadership of our President, our citizens sacrificed their lives for the nation, the country, and the state, no matter what the world's view, no matter what its ideological opinion. One of the institutions that survived the coup attempt is undoubtedly a political institution. The first goal of the coup attempt is national sovereignty, national will and we elected politicians. I believe that the chosen ones in particular owe life and loyalty to our beloved nation and to our martyrs. Because if the traitorous coup attempt had been successful that day, all of us who had been chosen would have been arrested or killed, as in the old coups. On the 15th of July, 78 million came together again, and a new national consensus arose, and we came up with a common language and a common attitude towards coupgers. Praise be to God, on the night of the 15th of July, we have a nation brave enough to save the country from darkness and go to work the next day and not respond to the coup, and also to contribute to the normalisation of the country. Especially after July 15th, Turkey is waging a new war of salvation after the coup attempt. Because July 15th is the beginning of the second war of sovereignty. July 15th, a happy generation of people defending their lives against the tank, the plane, the ball, the bullet. July 15th is the slap of the holy Turkish nation on the inside, the traitors outside. July 15th is a lesson in democracy that we give as one, which is amazing all over the world. The 15th of July is our paradise, honored by witness sherbet, when this nation is a hell to live in. Honourable lawmakers, for democracy and the will of the nation, there must also be peace and public order. Where there's no public order, there's no point, there's no point. It is one of the main duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which the state, the government and the will of the nation are in, and most importantly, to take measures concerning public order. Sometimes we are confronted with such narratives as the State of Emergency. As I have just mentioned, it is imperative that we remain in law against the July 15th treasonous coup attempt and acts of terror again to implement the OHR regulation expressed in Articles 119, 120 and 121 of our Constitution. When will the State of Emergency be declared at a time like this? In extraordinary times, you have to make extraordinary decisions. It was taken by the State of Emergency to protect the order of a free democracy established with the Constitution, to protect basic rights and freedoms, to maintain constitutional order, to maintain order and order of law and order; to fight against this Parliament, our President and the government, which is a place of national will, and to separate the elements of terrorism from the state. We are facing a clear and brutal attack on us every day by all the other terrorist organizations who have tried every dirty road, treason. One day they try to shoot us out of the Kurdish-Turkish brotherhood, they don't look at us, the next day the game changes, they try to shoot us in our beliefs and lifestyles, and they look at it, and it's not happening this time, another game is being put on display by terrorist bosses. The roles are changing, but the fiction is the same. So, what do you have to do? How are we supposed to fight? Everyone wants the same thing, we all want to end the terror. To do that, we have to fight terrorism, we have to fight terrorism effectively, we have to fight terrorism, we have to fight the spirit of national mobilization. One of the anti-terrorism elements is the State of Emergency, where we have stated its origin in the Constitution. The State of Emergency is based not only on the coup attempt but also on all terrorist organizations and all terrorist activities. The State of Emergency is just a legal action against the activities of terrorist organizations that threaten our national security and our country. The EC PARTY has been implemented many times before its rulings. During the time of the late Turgut Özal, on July 19, 1987, the OHL was extended 46 times to the east, and was removed by the EC PARTY on 30 November 2002. In other words, the AK PARTY is a party that lifts the State of Emergency, which has been implemented for years with a liberal decision. Since there was no need that day, the State of Emergency was lifted, and today it is imperative that the State of Emergency make a decision because it is necessary to fight terrorism. Both the July 15th attempted treasonous coup attempt and the period of the State of Emergency has to be extended against the terrorist incidents that we have experienced from time to time. The State of Emergency has ruled against two sad domestic terrorist incidents, such as the massacre of France, Charlie Hebdo and Paris, and has been extending it for over a year. And we weren't going to take it after all the terror we've been through and the July 15 coup attempt, and when were we going to get it? Under the State of Emergency, public personnel and elements that disrupt the democratic functioning of the state must also be cleared of bureaucracy, my friends. In other words, it is unthinkable for the government to work together with bureaucracy, which is not loyal to the state. The State of Emergency does not affect the daily routine of society. On the contrary, it was taken as described in the Constitution by our citizens for maintaining their daily lives. At times, the State of Emergency decree states that Parliament is legally disabled. We have the right to ratify or reject the extension of the State of Emergency as Parliament. Like what? It's like this thing we're talking about here today. I'm also saying that both the State of Emergency and the KHK and the Parliament must be represented by the Civil Code and the Constitution by the legal system in which the existing provisions are carried out. Our deputy just told us that the State of Emergency has something to do with the referendum process. The State of Emergency has nothing to do with the referendum process. Because when the State of Emergency decision was made, the constitutional amendments were not even on the agenda. The State of Emergency is not a political method; it is not an institution for fighting politics; the State of Emergency is a legal method described in the Constitution, and it is a means to fight terrorism. Dear lawmakers, as a country, we offer a full resistance to independence against all global forces. Global forces are supposedly trying to get us in line with the terrorist organizations they've organized, and they want us to follow the fiction they're used to in ancient Turkey, which they're used to, but Turkey is not the old Turkey. Turkey, one country, one nation, one state, one flag and unless their fiction works, they're more mad. Turkey doesn't give them the reflexes they expect or hope for, and it never will. In any other country in the world, if any of these events had happened to any other country, it would have been destroyed. But we have an ancient civilization, a state tradition, and a nation and a state that will stop as long as the world stands, by the will of God. We think it's not about taking the world behind you and challenging Asia Minor, but about taking Anatolian behind you and challenging the world. Turkey is being called a country of terror, and it is being introduced into racism and discrimination by using Islam as a tool. There is an Islamophobia scream going on in the world through Turkey. Members of parliament, in a global age, a number of global forces in the world have a close relationship with terror and terrorist organisations in interest rather than a common attitude towards terrorism. Sometimes in front of countries that have an attitude to give weapons, sometimes to spoil terrorist organizations, sometimes to support logistics, sometimes not to hand over members of a terrorist organization, they will eventually fall into the hands of terror. We expect from all countries: Be honest, be honest. Terror is a world problem without religion, people, even geography. Terror is like a serpent. Whoever feeds terror in front of him, it will come to him, and when the day comes, it will sting him who supports him. Congressmans, Western states sometimes -- like those of us who don't mean well -- want to link Turkey to the DAEŞ terrorist organization or create an unfair perception operation against Turkey against our country by sending a message close to it. This perception, as wrongly as it is, is also fueled by terror. As this perception has been wrong all along, this perception has actually completely collapsed. Because Turkey is the only country to fight against DAEŞ; Turkey is the only country to fight and pay the price; Turkey is also the country to which DAEŞ acts most and acts. Today is the 130th day of Operation Firat Shield. So far, 1,270 DAESS members have been neutralized, including 1,561. The world says "DAESH" but there's nothing he's done. DAHŞ, which is cornered in Syria and Iraq, is targeting Turkey, trying to create a space for it. We, Mr. President, will destroy terror in its own swamp. None of the countries that claim to be fighting DAEŞ are actually fighting in earnest, they are arm-wrestling each other over DAEŞ and other terrorist organizations, they are waging custody wars, they see the presence of DAEŞ as a formula for increasing their negotiations. The West wants to clash with Eastern civilisations for the continuation of its own prosperity democracy. This is not a sustainable logic for the West. It's not terror that wins in the world, it's humanity that will win in the end. Congressmans, in our recent geography of the United States, which we know as friends and allies, we have been following with an example the recent inconsistencies of the United States. In our group meeting today, as our Prime Minister stated, we have been with the United States for years in NATO, we have strategic partnerships in many areas, and the United States should not allow this entire partnership to be shadowed by a terrorist organization. There, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) extensions have come to our border and have approached us, the YPG (YPG), the PYD (PYD)... the YPG is the same as the PKK. We want these to be seen by the United States now. The Republic of Turkey expects it from the new American government. We have a long line with Syria. We have a situation that is very disturbing to our country because of the civil war. We're harboring 3 million refugee brothers. We expect the United States to quickly move away from the YPG and the PYD, and support us in the fight against terrorism. We're not here to hold the new administration accountable, but hopefully, the new government will fight terror with a universal purpose and universal values. Unfortunately, this Obama administration's ability is to use the Mafia to defeat the Mafia, and it's not possible to use the terrorist organization to eliminate the terrorist organization, it can't have that kind of state sense. When Mr Barack Obama was elected, the Obama administration, which was thought to be a hope for world peace, unfortunately failed in its mandate. Activists and world peace seekers have now chosen to call Barack Obama rather than Barack Obama. Congressmans, we must all reject messages from these social media accounts, especially after the terrorist attacks, to divide our nation, to divide our nation, to threaten our state's back, and never give bonuses to such social media accounts. The period is not a time for our differences, our lifestyles, our separations to be discussed. The period is a period of discretion, alertness, determination, and dedication based on our national unity and brotherhood. In social media or in different areas, the way of life and faith, through ethnitism and sects, whoever is upsetting someone else, we must strongly oppose them. If terror's goal is to create chaos, if terror wants to increase discrimination and reset our moral values, then, on the contrary, we need to consolidate our unity and unity with a strict and vigilant strategy, knowing everyone's immediate responsibility. At the same time, we need to be alert to two acts and structures that are supposedly giving soft messages in our fight against terrorism, but stand in the same place as terrorism. Any segregating, polarizing rhetoric serves the purpose of terrorism. Our greatest strength is our national unity and unity. Turkey is a social law state, and the lives, beliefs, and ideas of all our citizens are guaranteed by our government. So neither terror lovers nor terror lovers can ever, ever divide us. Members of lawmakers have been trying to corner us, especially recently, by gathering different terrorist organizations. All terrorist organisations have the same bosses and Turkey is their target. We don't receive any messages from terrorism, and we don't accept any messages from terrorists. Just a month ago, in Beşiktas Martyrs Hill, the treacherous attack on our police, the brutal action against our soldiers in Kayseri, and finally, our people who were slaughtered in Reina, we have not forgotten or forgotten. These may be different acts of terror, but they are the same intention and purpose, leading Turkey into chaos, despair and panic, lowering Turkey's reputation, but they will never achieve it. Someone closes their eyes to all of this and puts up their ears and asks them, "Why don't you fight?" Why don't you stop them? They say, "What are you doing in Syria?" Let us answer immediately: The reason we are there is for our martyrs who have been victims of terrorism in our country. It's because the weapons that kill innocent people come from there and keep coming. And let no one forget that the Republic of Turkey is a great state, so Turkey's terror has every right to intervene, not in its own territory, but in our citizens, where death is imported to our people. Yeah, we'll die if we have to, maybe we'll give martyrs, but we'll never kneel...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0192par0241	Why should we give it to him? Why should we give it to him for nothing, martyr?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0191par0242	...we will never bow to the tyrant, we will not be caught in the net of terror. We live and love each other with a thousand years of different mosaics of faith and culture. We'll bury the same faith and determination terrors and terrorists in the sea, just as we threw the enemy into the sea in the faith, in the faith, in the faith, in the faith, in the faith, in the faith and in the faith, as he did in Sakarkale, in Sakarya, in the Dumlupınar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As I end my speech, for the sake of our country, our nation and our state, I salute the General Assembly that its description is useful, necessary, and urgent, in order to maintain our legal order in the Constitution, to continue our fight against terrorist organisations quickly and effectively.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0193par0246	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0194par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0193par0248	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0194par0249	Sir, for the record, I'd like a very brief statement from 60. In this regard, the speaker said that the extraordinary state was removed by the Justice and Development Party's Government in 2002, which is completely wrong. It is wrong: Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which was collected on June 19, 2002, has been decided to remove its extraordinary state in the provinces of Hakkari and Tunceli, and to extend it for the last time in Diyarbakır and Şırnak provinces, and has passed the term "extreme" for the last time. The Justice and Development Party government has been in power since the November 3rd elections, has come to power, and has no decision made by the government, it has no saving to be removed. For the record, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0195par0252	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu, it's been filed.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0196par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0195par0254	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0196par0255	Mr. President, there is no discrepancy in what I'm saying, the State of Emergency was lifted on November 30, 2002.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0195par0256	What you're saying has been reported, Mr. Yıldırım. The talks on behalf of political party groups are over. Now, I promise the government. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Numan Survivor, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, you've been speaking for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0197par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I hope the negotiations on the principle of our government's decision to extend the state of emergency for three months are a blessing. Earlier, the extraordinary state of Turkey's Grand National Assembly had been extended once again, according to the national Security Council recommendation and the principle of the Council of Ministers. Once again, with the principle decision sent by our Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as of today, we have sent our decision to extend the state of emergency to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for three months, effective immediately on Thursday (January 19, 2017) Thursday evening. Of course, the decision is not the principle of the government, nor the recommendation of the National Security Council, but ultimately the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision made by the Supreme Assembly, it will be decided whether or not the state of emergency will be extended. My fellow lawmakers, as you know, the 120th article of the Constitution gives the authority to declare a state of emergency to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey when any widespread act of violence against the removal of fundamental rights and freedoms of the constitutional order. It also gives the Council of Ministers the authority to extend the state of emergency in Article 121, not to exceed four months at a time. We've used all of this, and today we're presenting the principle decision to use it one more time to the Parliament. In addition, practices under Article 120 have continued to be implemented in the main framework drawn by Article 667, and have been implemented so far. My fellow lawmakers, why do we need extraordinary behavior? Starting here...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0198par0267	They should have been answered before we got there. The national security board has decided...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0197par0268	I'll say it, don't worry, I'll say it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0199par0269	For the last time, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0197par0270	Why is there a need for the continuation of the state of emergency? I'd like to start with that question. In fact, Turkey needs a state of emergency in Turkey, as its extraordinary circumstances continue. I don't want to waste your time talking here for too long, but three basic conditions seem to sustain the presence of a key element that poses a national security threat to Turkey. One is the fact that the conditions around Turkey, the deep instability and political turbulence that have arisen around here, are being observed by all of us in Syria, Iraq, and other countries in our region, as well as the fact that several armed terrorist groups are moving around very freely in these areas, destroying people, harming them, and continuing to threaten Turkey through their presence in these countries. Thus, with such big games going on around Turkey, with such major terrorist attacks going on, we can't say that threats against Turkey from beyond the borders of Turkey are a national security risk at any moment, while they are living in common circumstances. Therefore, we must see that this is also a matter of extraordinary national security. Second: We face a terrorist attack on Turkey, which has been continuing directly since July 2015, targeting Turkey, no matter what its side, no matter what social factions it has chosen, whatever type of action it has adopted as a common target, the state of the Republic of Turkey and our beloved nation. These terrorist organisations simultaneously continue to threaten Turkey. Not just counting all the events, but just reviewing the last four terrorist incidents we've had, we'll see how Turkey faces a major attack and how this threat is going on: one is the Beşiktaş attack, one is the attack on Kayseri, the other is the attack on the Russian Ambassador, and the last one is the attack on New Year's Eve in Centralköy. The terrorist methods used in each of these attacks are different, the identity of each terrorist group in this attack is different, each of the people targeted in this attack are different masses. But can you tell me, for God's sake, what's the difference between the target of the attack in Ortaköy and the target of the attack in Kayseri? Their goal is this beloved nation, our country, the unity of our country, our national security, and the future of Turkey. So I would like to remind you once again that this attack was an attack against Turkey, and it is imperative that we stand united against these attacks. In particular, other messages from previous terrorist attacks have been asked to be delivered, following the recent Ortaköy attack. One of them is that in 2017 we will continue to be a nuisance. So we're very clear: no matter what terrorist organization is behind it, no matter who's behind it, no matter what their motivation is, we're determined to fight every terrorist organization in 2017, we're going to fight it all the way to the end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Also, they're saying... there's been some blinders and traitors recently trying to deepen it through social media. Let me be very clear, we're tracking them all, and we'll keep following them. They're trying to separate themselves from their lifestyle in this country; that's one of the main reasons behind the attacks in Ortaköy. And we have to be alert to that. Again, I would like to stress that it is also a job for those who can't stomach the success of the Ortaköy attack, especially Turkey's success in the fight against terrorism outside Turkey's borders. They say to Turkey, "Don't raise your voice, don't try to drain the resources of terrorism in other countries." We want to make it very clear that wherever the threat comes from our country, wherever it comes from, we will continue to fight them all. In the same way, we remember the terrorist attack on July 15, 2016, those attacks on the Veteran Assembly, and once again, we remember the heroic struggle of our nation after July 15th, with gratitude. May God never show our nation such days again, but we remember the lesson we learned from July 15th over and over and over again, and we remember that we must continue our journey in unity and unity. However, after July 15th, the attacks of the terrorist organization, which required this Grand Assembly to declare its state of emergency, although its backs have been broken, they still exist at some points within the state. For example, although several members of our Turkish Armed Forces have been expelled, there have been people who have been suspended, including some senior officers, as a result of investigations even today. We also know that within our courthouse agency, within our police force, there are also, unfortunately, members of other groups of the state, and related groups, who are related to it. So, let me put it in full legal terms: the decontamination of the state has not yet been terminated. Once again, we would like to share with you that we need an extraordinary state of affairs until we can get the people and all the terrorist organizations to be purged of the state. Our hearts desire that this and other reasons that require the extraordinary state of things that we do not count will soon be removed, and there will be no need for the extraordinary state of Turkey to continue. No government wants a state of emergency to continue. A government that has the power to pass the law with a numerical majority such as the EC PARTY does not mean that it can do things that it can't by using it. The state of emergency is essential for the national security of the state, mandatory, and hopefully for a while longer... If the General Assembly approves, in the meantime, we'll be on our way, hopefully by removing the reasons that require extraordinary circumstances. My fellow lawmakers, we're paying attention to the balance of security and freedom within extraordinary conditions. In this framework, believe me, we do not allow anything to affect the daily lives of our citizens. You can't say that any of you can't say that any of the problems that concern our citizens on the street in their daily lives, in their trade, in their education, in other matters, in the case of extraordinary circumstances. However, we will continue to fight meticulously against those who are involved in actions against the state, those who are connected with the government, those who are connected to the terrorist groups. So, we're focusing on the subject with the precision that is possible in the balance of freedom-security, and we're careful to maintain an extraordinary state without affecting our citizen's daily life. Another important issue is that we are as meticulous and sensitive as you are in the face of injustices that may happen. We know there's a very important, very extensive operation going on. If there are wrongs, injustices, wrongs, injustices in the draft law decrees -- those suspended from office or closed institutions and institutions -- are being returned to their duties if they are found to be wronged. As a result, it is a right and proper decision to extend the state of emergency for another three months; in three ways it is true: the first is constitutional, it has constitutional basis, it exists, and this constitutional basis is being used correctly and properly. Second, it's not only constitutional, it's also a basis for legitimacy. The ground of legitimacy is to give additional support to the public administration to ensure our country's national unity, unity, the protection of public order, state order, and the necessary steps to take in this area. The third is based on a concrete necessity. My dear friends, for those three reasons, which I have not entered because of the time delay and because of the fact that it's too late, on the one hand, they're fighting a brutal battle against each of the terrorist organizations, while on the other hand, their ties to him are still fighting against the ongoing fitness and corruption of the groups, which is a concrete national security motive, and we commend you to the fact that the extraordinary condition has been extended for three more months. Now, if you'll excuse me, during their talks, we've had friends with really valuable advice, we've taken notes, we'll try to take serious advantage of them. Once again, we're being very sensitive and careful with the provocateurs on social media. Some friends have been taken, but I'm sorry, social media isn't a dingo barn. Social media is a very important place, a great blessing, a great blessing. If we use this in a good, positive way, If we use it for the good of our nation and of mankind, we can have very productive results. But over social media, three or five trolls will try to divide people through their lifestyles, and you are Alevi, and you are Sunni. Three or five trolls will try to play on them, and they will do things that will undermine the dignity of the people in this country, and they will divide the people, and we will not allow them. Look, in the last week alone, 92 people have been followed, investigated, and sent to the authorities. I'm just saying, since you've been talking here, if you've got any concrete information, documents, you'll report them to the relevant institutions.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0200par0281	Did you do anything about Sevki Yilmaz?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0197par0282	Investigations are being launched against all of them. Some of them have been referred to the courts. We'll take care of them all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0201par0283	President of the Religious Affairs, Chairman of the Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0202par0284	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0197par0285	Listen to me. If you have something concrete, let's do something about it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0201par0286	There's an explanation, there's an explanation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0203par0287	They have a public statement. The president of the entire Diabetes Department is making a statement. You're covering your ears.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0201par0288	He says not to celebrate Christmas; what's that like?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0204par0289	Dear friends, the President of the Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0201par0290	Isn't that an intervention in the lifestyle, Minister?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0204par0291	If you'll excuse me. We all share a statement made by the President of the Religious Affairs in the face of a terrorist attack.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0201par0293	Before, before...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0204par0294	He says: "This attack was done in place of entertainment, or in a mosque."
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0205par0295	Before New Year's Eve...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0204par0296	So let's not divide society by these. Everybody watch out for these.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0205par0297	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0206par0298	Before, before...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0207par0299	Minister, what about Sevki Yilmaz?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0208par0300	What do you think of Sevki Yilmaz, Minister?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0301	I didn't insult you. Look, you talked; come on, if you have anything to say, say it. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0210par0302	You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0303	Now, friends, since I've been told twice, I have to answer. From the Council of Ministers of 3/1/2017 which was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today, and from this principle decision, you have only brought to the point of saying, "You've been careless. You've said, like, "You've said it a little bit less." I'm sorry, there's a routine National Security Board meeting on the 11th. We have a routine Council of Ministers meeting on the 15th. Besides, it ends on the 19th -- so next week -- it's a matter of state of emergency. Therefore, there has been no error in procedure here. When I make a press release...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0211par0304	You've written the third of the month, Mr. Secretary, the third of the month.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0305	One, listen. Listen, let me answer you, brother.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0211par0306	We're listening.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0307	During the press conference yesterday, during the Council of Ministers, when I held the press conference, this issue did not come up. After that, the subject came up. Dear friends, according to Article 3/3 of the State of Emergency Act, the Council of Ministers of Ministers has taken this principle of extension and said the same thing as the National Security Council's opinion on the matter this morning. The decisions of members of the National Security Council and members of the Council of Ministers on this matter have been carried out, their signatures have been signed, and the principle of the Council of Ministers shall be sent to the Council of Ministers on the basis of the principle of the Council of Ministers. There's no lack of processing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0211par0309	When? How did it happen? Did you get it off the paperwork? When did you assemble the National Security Board?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0310	Friends, look, in the Council of Ministers -- this decision -- you know that some decisions are made by handing over, sometimes even by faxing their signatures to those who are away. In executive decisions, the will of decisionmakers is sufficient to be declared and complete administrative decisions.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0211par0311	Why did you write that here, sir?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0312	So, that's the truth of the matter, there's no error in procedure, the signatures are complete. In any way...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0211par0313	Make a bold apology. Say it was a mistake.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0209par0314	Look, we also have to abandon this habit: If the National Security Council says, "Don't extend the state of emergency." If the Council of Ministers says, "Get away," it comes and goes. On the contrary, if the National Security Council says "stay away," the Council of Ministers will not extend it. The principle decision of the Council of Ministers is the basis. Therefore, in terms of principle decisions and decisions based on principle decisions, there is no lack of administrative law, the decision is in place and it is true. From now on, you're the MPs to make the decision. Good luck with that. I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0212par0317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0213par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0212par0319	Come in, Mr. Bilgen, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0213par0320	I can tell you from my very short spot.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0212par0321	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0213par0324	Mr. President, all decisions of the National Security Council are recommended. Therefore, we don't find a will, a custody party on the Council of Ministers to be right, not politically acceptable. But there's an article in front of us, and it's clearly a meeting date and a decision no. There's water. The decision is not taken by the opinion of individual members, it is taken at the meeting. There's no way to make a decision without having a meeting with the National Security Council. If the regulation on how the National Security Council made a decision on its own website, how it was collected is correct, then it is very clear how this country will be assembled, if it has no constitution other than the Constitution, which we have read. So in this article, there's an obvious error of procedure, and I'll put it to you in the politest way, otherwise we'll have to have a discussion about the Council of Ministers' misdirection. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0212par0326	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0214par0329	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, the problem with power is that it's a question of credibility. There's no planning, it's the day-to-day decisions that are being made and the process is being taken. I'm now watching Mr. Numan Survivor, and I have to go through which Mr. Numan is saved. Because on July 21, 2016, when the first state of emergency was held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ spoke and defended the extraordinary and said to all of us: "Friends, don't worry, our goal is to remove the State of Emergency in less than three months." The very next day, Mr. Numan Survivi -- today he talks about the extension of the state of emergency -- said: "We plan to get results and finish in forty-five days of extraordinary condition. Which Mr. Numan survived? Is Mr. Numan Survived at that moment, the current Mr. Numan Saved? I mean, a power has to be in a state of determination, a power that's constantly changing its decisions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me wrap this up.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0215par0336	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0214par0337	We're dealing with an unpredictive power reality whose decisions are constantly changing based on current events. In contrast to what they had said earlier, Mr. Saved has now made a statement suggesting that it could be extended even further. I mean, that's not the kind of attitude that suits a ruling party. You have to be realistic. I wish the explanations of Mr. Numan Survivor would be more accurate. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0215par0339	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0346	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, our deputy chairman of the group told us earlier that the state of emergency was built against the state, that it was not against the public, that it would take 45 days, but that's not 45 days, that's six months, and now it's been asked for three more months, and it's been nine months. It's really important that political power has a question of credibility.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0217par0348	He'll be back for another three months.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0349	First of all, the political government needs to publicly acknowledge its credibility. Now, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "We extend the state of emergency for three reasons." One was called common events as a result of the disintegration of neighbouring states. On one occasion, there is no sentence in Article 120 of our Constitution or Article 121 of the Article 121 of the Constitution that would declare the state of emergency in Turkey as a result of the dissolution of other states. From the beginning, you can only go forward with the purpose and reason of the state of emergency, but with those arguments you can ask for a new extension. Second of all, you said, "This is needed because of the incidents that were common in Turkey after July 2015." Why did you wait until July 15, 2016, when it was needed after July 2015? And this argument of yours is not true and it's not right. Furthermore, when the first state of emergency has been declared, the decision of the Council of Ministers and the recommendation of the National Security Council is not mentioned in the events of July 15, 2015; the dissolution of other countries is not mentioned. So, the arguments you've made in this sense are rotten. I'm coming to your final argument. What's your final argument? You're saying, sir, there are recent incidents in Turkey. Have fear of God. If you hadn't declared the state of emergency, what would have happened, what would have been worse? How could a worse, greater disaster happen to this society? It's happening in Kayseri, it's happening in Beşiktaş, it's happening in Ortaköy, it's happening in Ankara Gar, where were you? I mean, for him, that's what would happen if it weren't for the state of emergency; there's a state of emergency, there's no security measures, you've taken nothing. For him, it's really not about fighting terrorist organizations. If your main goal had been to fight terrorist organizations... look, Bitliste County Police Command wants to operate against PKK terror organization, ask permission from the governorate, the governorate says: "Sir, delay this operation for another time." Here's our Bitlis MP. Here's a copy.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0218par0354	What's his date?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0355	2013. Come in, come in, examine, my dear friend. So you're the ones who raised, fed, brought up terrorist organizations, brought them to this day. Now, another friend of ours speaking on behalf of the AKP Group said that he said... sir, they left before the coup attempt on July 15th, they came into December 17-25. On December 17th and 25th, he showed me how to rob a state. Look, the watch I'm wearing is 50 lira. Who put that watch on? Did the ministers put that watch on the minister's hand? Did they take money boxes, dollars, safes to the ministers' home? Well, if the people took it, why didn't you return it with interest? Who took it with interest? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, I think the Minister of National Education is sitting here... sitting. A friend of yours -- who is also here -- called me one day, Mr. Salih Bey said: "Ya, friend, this is the Active Union." They call it the union of the terrorist organization. This was not founded after December 17th or 25th, and the minister did not know about it. Give me one, and I'll show it to him. I threw him out of Whatsapp. I don't know if he showed it or not. Look, on January 2, 2014, the Ministry of National Education is sending an article with 81 in Turkey, saying: This is the Active Union established, the IBAN number is this, the account number is this, please let the governors report it to all state national education directors, and help with the membership of this union. Here, I'll give it to you, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0219par0361	▪ Is there a word for help? No. Don't exaggerate!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0362	What?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0219par0363	There's no help, there's no news.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0364	There is a report.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0219par0365	It's like what they do to all the unions.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0366	Well, your friends, the Regents say this is a terrorist organization. Why did you set it up, why did you let it happen? Why did you recruit the citizen? If it's not a crime, why did you suspend these people just because they joined the union?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0219par0367	It's an app for everyone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0220par0368	Don't talk without knowing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0369	Look, more than that, the Minister of Finance is talking. Now, answer to the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance, why did you cut these unions' dues from the source? Weren't you involved in that crime? Look, one is the Ministry of National Education, who made the union a member, the Finance Minister who cut his dues.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0220par0370	Don't talk without knowing!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0371	Instead of calling me names, this person... doesn't ambush a citizen. The state makes a citizen live within the law. You ambushed a citizen, an ambush. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've got it, look, in Şanlıurfa...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0221par0374	Did he give you power of attorney?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0375	Look, Mr. Attorney General, I'm coming to you now, all of you, who are talking. Aren't you the one who said to ISIS terror organization, Mr. Turkesh, when the Chief Public Prosecutor of Adana issued a statement about you, "If Mr. Turkesh were here, please pass those weapons there without permission."
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0221par0376	These are all the words of the GERP.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0377	When you've been held for questioning, you'll be cleared of the charge of judicial influence in Article 278/ of the Turkish Penal Code. Didn't the legal arrangement have been made for you? Look, you're the one who praised your terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0222par0380	Mr. Tanal, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0381	Look, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0223par0382	Are you the lawyer of the family?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0383	What was he saying? Sir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0223par0384	Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0385	I'm the lawyer of humanity, I'm the lawyer of the oppressed, I'm the lawyer of the orphans.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0223par0386	No, no, you're never like that. You're never, never like that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0387	In the face of the tyrant, we stand by the oppressed.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0223par0389	You're talking wrong. You're acting as the attorney.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0390	Look, if you're looking for ا, ask your vice president, Şaban Dharli. If you are looking for him, ask for his brother Mehmet Dharli. If you're looking for Erzurum MP, ask him. If you... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary just said: "We've entered every foot of the fucking thing." Where's your political foot? Where's your political foot, brothers?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0224par0394	What's CHP doing to your political foot? What's the CHP doing to the political foot?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0395	Look, your signature is under those decisions regarding the appointment of all generals who did this July 15 coup in Turkey. I, Ergenekon, went to the Sledgehammer and said, "You are unjust, you are unlawful." When I said, "Are you the same Bekir Bozdağ?" What were we saying back then? You set up the army. We called it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0224par0396	Tell me what you said after 17-25.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0397	Our friends who were here at the time - Mr. Doğan - Mr. Metiner here, Mr. Naci Bostancı - Ya, my brother, this Ergenekon, why are you going to Balyoz?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0224par0398	Tell me about what you said after December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0399	Dear friends, we have spoken the truth in Ergenekon, and in the sledgehammer, and where there is law, wherever there is injustice, we face injustice.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0224par0400	You've taken care of the people.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0225par0401	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0216par0402	What's the penal code called? The person is innocent until the sentence is finalized. Look, there's an investigation in Aksaray, and it's from social media. She's in labor with a C-section, the kid's in the incubator, her mother's leaving and being brought in. Dear friends, we have friends who are mothers among us, we have brothers; would a child in an incubator leave his mother? With what mentality is this done? What law would agree to that? What idea would accept that? For that, everyone needs the law. The AKP is the one who delivers the country to the congregations, and the AKP is the one who delivers it to the congregations. Right now, you've handed him over to the range cult, the reader's cult, etcetera, etcetera. For him, governments live by law, states don't live by community culture, dear friends. I suggest you don't go outside the law. This state of emergency law is really intended for favourability within the state, an issue that finishes the merits. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0226par0408	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0227par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0226par0410	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0227par0411	They said my name was mentioned and I got some information about the union. I'd like to have a word with you about that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0226par0412	Here you go, I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0227par0416	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, Mr. Tanal, made a statement regarding this union, and had previously left the government here under suspicion, showing the government that a trade union called AKTIF-SEN had been established in 2014 and that the government had allowed it to do so. So I asked Tanal to make a copy of this article to see if it was true, and Mr. Tanal sent it to me from WhatsApp. I got that information, and I also talked to our Deputy Minister, is this union really founded in 2014, or has it already been established? In that article, the founders of the union want information from the Ministry. Our union was established in 2013, but the governorates are not informed about the records of our members. Would you write to us about it? It's called "The Union" in 2013, and the union account number and bank information are shared. So, the union was established in 2013, before the 2013 17th-25th period. I found out it wasn't founded in 2014, and I confirmed it from the Ministry. That's what it's all about. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0228par0419	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Second speaker on behalf of Halis Dalklıc, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0229par0426	Mr. President, I have made a promise that the State of Emergency will be extended for another three months as a result of a low coup and occupation attempt on July 15th, aimed at our democracy, our nation, our country. I hereby salute the High Council. I'm one of those who know that politics is a courtesy and a manner towards citizens and rivals. Mr. Tanal, in his speech just now, spinning like a mixer, always targeting the government, without any grounds, the government's members, constantly slandering, distortions, Mr. Tanal, in a manner that has come in from other areas, and he still doesn't know that it's of any use to the CHP, and that it's of no value to the people. If there's talk of a position under the roof of this Parliament, then maybe Tanal is the only one here who doesn't have any doubts about the alliance. There's no reason for him to break up literature here, back and forth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, three days ago there was a terrorist attack at a nightclub in Istanbul that targeted both our citizens and our guests. In the words of our president of the Diabetes, Mehmet Gormez, we declare where terrorism comes from, without looking at his religion, his religion, his race, his country, all kinds of things, and we will continue to fight with absolute power. I pray for God's mercy to our citizens and to our guests who have lost their lives there, and to heal our wounded immediately. Dear friends, what caused the three-month extension of the emergency decision has just been explained by former speakers. However, the extraordinary state decision is a decision made to rid the state of its structures of those who have infiltrated the government, infiltrated the institutions, served its country, its nation, rather than its country. It's a decision and practice that will never affect our nation's daily lives. So, if we hadn't made these decisions, even if it hadn't been for the extraordinary state of emergency, the current situation is that if we were to do this cleaning... we're seeing in Parliament, each of you are witnessing that we've been fighting here for days to remove a substance. Thus, if we hadn't decided on this challenge by taking extraordinary state decisions, today the traitors would have taken the government's salary and continued within the state's institutions. Had we not made this decision, 55 newspapers, 28 television stations, 35 radios, 18 magazines, 3 news agencies and tens of thousands of treacherous states would continue to exist. We have to conduct a quick, decisive, dynamic process regarding the cleanup of these, the extraordinary state decisions, and we're all considering the proposal for the three-month extension of this process. Dear friends, unfortunately speaking of the opposition party, before 2002, it was as if Turkey was a rose of roses, no terror, no economic problems, no IMF problems, no inflation...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0230par0432	No, there wasn't, there was no terror.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0229par0433	It wasn't a Turkey where our young people's hopes were lost and we didn't have any hope for tomorrow; it was as if we had taken over a sunny Turkey, and what is coming today, what is happening, what is happening, what is happening in the region, what is low, what is happening in the country, what is happening in the country, what is the reason for the actions of the AK PARTI staff, which is simply unconscionable, unfair. Therefore, our people know it. Our people don't say what you say, and the truth doesn't say that, dear friends, and the truth doesn't say that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0230par0434	You've been in power for 14 years, 14 years.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0229par0435	How do I know? So I'll tell you: every election we've been in from 2002 to today, people, we've had our services, where we've gotten Turkey, where we've brought Turkey, he knows the developments in Turkey. Unfortunately, those who investigated the Middle East, those who planned the Middle East, those who first identified the Middle East, and then made big plans in the Middle East, those who turned the Middle East into a pool of blood by racial conflicts, they also had an account of Turkey. We live together in a process that began on July 15th of Turkey, which has been going on since July 15th. So, dear friends, do you think that those who investigate the region today have given up their claim to Turkey, to Turkey? Today, do you have any doubts that the DEA, PKK, NYD, YPG, all of these are being run from the same center, all of which are from the same center? On July 15th, not only the AK PARTI staff were targeted, CHP was also targeted, MPP was targeted, HDP was targeted, all the nation's children were targeted. So, what's changed? Today, the struggle continues. Isn't it our responsibility that while our security forces are struggling with their teeth, we should be able to build up their motivations, their rhetoric, their politics, and avoid the motivations of those who put up that fight? Unfortunately, through social media political party leaders, ruling leaders, in Turkey, do not realize the extent of the danger they are trying to deal with in the region, are still continuing to call many calls, many manipulations, with irresponsibility. Dear friends, every occasion our President says we're going to fight terror, our prime minister says, our ministers say, the AK PARTI staff says, "Come, let's take this fight side by side. We may have political differences, we may have different opinions, let's discuss them. But when it comes to the country, it can't be made of cheap domestic politics. Come on, let's walk together. Once our country, our country, our people's safety, the safety of our property, we'll find a way to continue our own internal discussions in this country. But in this period of terror targeting our country, under siege, I'm afraid that irresponsibility continues. You see, from some Twitter accounts, those who call people to the street, sir, in a different way on the other side, we will only support the message of unity, of unity. Those who say, "We will support the government." They continue to criticize the cruel and ruthless government and those who fight it. Dear friends, this battle will continue. People have a responsibility to us. The State of Emergency is part of that responsibility, and the fight against terrorism is part of that responsibility, and we will continue this march. The fighting of the children of this land with each other is never the account of this land. Our fights are ordered fights. We need to know that they're outside of us looking at each other. Please, let's wake up, join forces, join forces, unite our struggle with imperialism that wants to turn the Middle East and our country into a bloodbath. If we do that, we'll be able to honor the responsibility we've taken from this nation. If we don't, then it's no use to this nation, unfortunately, for opposition parties, to create politics with understanding that under every occasion it considers an insult to power -- let alone criticism -- politics. So, dear friends, now, we have said that Turkey's great march of civilization is going to continue this march one way or another. May our nation rest in peace. Step back? Never. We're on our way, we're on our feet, once again, it's forbidden to go back, because our nation expects us to complete the great march. A Turkey with power in its region, a global power in its region, a say in its territory, a peace of its own, an embrace of its citizens and a goal of 2023 must be the target of our brother, every citizen of Turkey. We have to do this together. When it comes to this country, there's no point in fighting, there's no point in fighting, there's no point in fighting, there's no point in fighting. Dear friends, the brotherhood must not remain a promise, and in unity, we will sail together to the days when Turkey will march on great goals ahead. Despite everything, Turkey's experience will ruin all these games. Our nation has its prayers, its support, its Parliament. By Allah's leave, let's not stop, keep going. We'll say, "Let's keep moving." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0231par0443	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0232par0444	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0231par0445	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0232par0446	Mr. President, the speaker just said in his speech, "You're spinning like a blender." It's a tease, I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0231par0447	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0232par0451	Dear President, what did the President say? We had the same range, we were deceived, he said. During the solution process, you entered arm in arm with HDP (HDP) and it was the same. So first of all, if anyone's spinning like a blender, every terrorist organization in Turkey has entered the arm of political power, let him take a look at himself. Two, in the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, when we were here against those strikes, against those bombs, you were all talking about the good, the national unity and unity, and we stood up against all kinds of legalities, all kinds of coups, all the time. We're not calling it a civil coup, we're against civil coup, we're against military coup, we're against full democratic Turkey. Dear friends, have you forgotten that if you're paid attention in the past, you're the one who went arm in arm with interfaith dialogue? More than that, did you not take the picture of Ataturk, based on the 10th year of the Turkish Olympics out of the money and print money for the Turkish Olympics? What was it all about? You did all this to make him happy. So, dear friends, we've never worked with terrorist organizations here, we've stood up to terrorist organizations every semester, we've always fought it. When we said, "Don't hire terrorist organizations." You said, "Don't let the mothers cry." You said, "Sir, you are against peace, you are an enemy of peace." You've turned the country into a bloodbath, dear friends. So, check out the training donut program. How many have joined ISIS, and how many have joined El Nusra? Can you give us a list of these? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And how many cases have been closed in Turkey concerning ISIS, and how many cases of ISIS have been ruled unsupervised? All of this needs to be explained.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0233par0458	WE are the only ones who are fighting against it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0232par0459	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0234par0461	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0462	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0236par0463	Mr. President, according to Article 60...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0234par0464	Mr. Master, just a moment...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0465	Mr. Tanal made a bet that turning around like a mixer was a taunt; and he came and said, "You're turning around like a blender." He said, "He gave some examples." For the same reason, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0234par0466	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0469	Mr. President, dear friends, an open and public political structure of the EC PARTI is taking its own will from the people, and it's on its way by contracting with the public. Our direction is clear: the peace, justice and justice of this country. It's not a real word from us, it's the direction of our contract with the people. As long as we're in this direction, the public will support us. If we deviate from this direction, I assure you, the common sense of the people will not support the slingshots. Anyone who shows himself in this direction, if they make an effort in this direction, in good faith, with the peace of this people, the brotherhood of this people, the righteousness and justice of this community, of course, we'll move on, but when they become a gang, they become the center of dark and hidden intentions, we'll take the harshest measures against it, we'll give them their dues. You're talking about..... When did it We're talking 40 years of history. When did it happen?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0237par0471	When did he reach his strength?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0472	It happened on the 15th of July, and it happened on December 17th and 25th. Why? Look, they're both attempts against a government elected by the people, against a will. You don't want to count December 17th or 25th, but it's the will of the people we owe their legitimacy to.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0237par0473	Wasn't there corruption, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, no corruption?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0474	No matter how legitimate you consider yourself, you have to oppose December 17-25 for the same moral reason.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0237par0475	Where did that money come from? Where did that money come from?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0235par0476	We've been on top of him since he's been on the road, and we'll be on top of gangs and organizations, and that's the way we'll be. That's for you to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0479	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0239par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0481	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0239par0482	Sir, I'm going to make a statement for the record. Mr. Naci Bostancı said, "When did it happen?" He gave me two dates: "One is July 15th." He said, "The other is December 17-25th." Mr. Bostancı was to us before those dates. We've said it everywhere, we've said it in Congress, but you don't believe it. So from a long time before December 17-25, the Republican People's Party lawmakers had been told several times, so let's stick to it. It was called, but unfortunately, it was protected by the ruling party. Now we don't accept the fact that they're based on December 17th or 25th. We, the Republican People's Party, named it after the Republican People's Party a long time ago, submitted research proposals, refused. So I want this on the record.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0484	Thank you, Mr. Sky. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0240par0486	Mr. President, I'd like to ask this logic: If you said Å before December 17th-25th, why didn't you say December 17th-25th?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0488	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0241par0489	We say it all the time.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0240par0490	Why did you board the boat on December 17th-25, where the shoeboxes...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0492	Congressmans, Mr. Bostanci, Mr. Gök, please, sir, we have no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0241par0493	We said that years ago, Mr. Naci Bostancı.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0238par0494	Mr. Master, I see you have a request according to Article 60, so I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go. I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0242par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we call it unity, we say we're having a hard time, but when we get the chance, some AKP MPs don't hesitate to make such unjust accusations. The speaker just asked a question, like, was 2002 better than today? Now, yes, 2002 was much better than today. Let's see how good it was... there's an explosion somewhere every day. So, here's the balance sheet in the morning; 8,000 people have been injured in the last year and a half, 2,000 people have lost their lives in this country; failure in foreign policy, dishonorability. We say this country is facing problems at the Beka level. What does that mean? Mr. President, we're fighting for salvation. This country went back a hundred years.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0243par0501	Was there an IMF institution in Turkey, Mr. Master?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0242par0502	Now, they're talking about the economy and the IMF and everything. I'll give you a couple of indicators - the numbers of the state are in the middle. Look, we have ministers here in charge of the economy, so if you don't have a number, they'll give it to you. Look at the unemployment figures, look at the current number.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0244par0504	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0242par0505	Is there any way you can extend another minute?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0244par0506	All right, I'll open it. Please complete it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0242par0507	Look at the external debt figures, especially the external debt of the private sector, the debt of the household, look at the situation of the business, look at the share of the industry in the national income, look at the growth; you've taken over a growing economy of 6.2. All vulnerability indicators are much worse than 2002. By saying much worse than 2002, the government in 2002 was a government that had come to solve the problems of the decades, a government that had come to address the problems of the decades. Look at the level of investment, the level of savings. Guys, please be a little more careful, a little more responsible. We're trying to keep the union together, and when you get a chance like this, you touch a little bit of ground, and you're talking stuff that doesn't make sense. I want to warn the AKP Group about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0245par0510	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go. I give you my word on the 60th article.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0246par0514	Mr. President, I'd like to make one last statement regarding the vote. Mr. Survivi said a recommendation has been made before an MGK meeting. Such a procedure is not found, nor is such a procedure found during AKP rule. Right now, we're going to see a vote that, in fact, has been done many times before, that, based on the majority's rights, any form of procedure can be ignored. Once again, we express our opinion in this House that this should not be allowed. There was no agenda of extension of the State of Emergency by its government spokesman. Despite its statement, we today will experience the extension of the OHAL here, as I said, by the majority.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0245par0515	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0247par0516	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0245par0517	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0247par0519	I just explained in my speech that while I was making the statement during the Council of Ministers, the meeting of the Council of Ministers continued after that. That's what we do on the days of the Council of Ministers, and I've made it very clear. Once again, for the record, there's no shortage of administrative procedures, no irregularities at all. Besides, there's no way that the National Security Board... According to Article 3/3 of the State of Emergency Act, the Council of Ministers shall take the principle decision, taking the decision of the National Security Council in extension, or rather the recommendation of the recommendation of the National Security Council. The statement in the law is very clear, the Council of Ministers receives information from the National Security Council as they decide to remove the principle...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0245par0521	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0247par0522	.... He'll get his opinion. He says. Once again, I want to make this clear, there's no irregularities in the process, and I want my friends to take another look at it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0248par0523	501. Where's the verdict, Mr. Secretary, 501? What's the verdict?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0245par0524	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I'd like to submit the thesis to your votes for those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that my Act 2/80 be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The 37th Amendment motion would have come too early, but today it's a busy agenda, so it's up to these hours, but the General Assembly is full.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0249par0542	Yes, sir. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I honor all our citizens, our people, the citizens of the world, who were murdered in Istanbul the other day and curse the massacre. Fifteen months ago in Suruç, the chain of massacres that started on the Syrian border was widely common in Istanbul, Ankara, all over Turkey, and Turkey, every ten days, became the talk of major killings, major acts of terrorism. This happened during the Justice and Development Party's reign and thanks to it. Dear friends, I have received a pledge on the Law Proposal (2/80) but this offer is about to be arrested. Last Friday, I was at the Clumsy Courthouse -- if the minister is here -- the Falls Courthouse was really like a concentration camp -- I was there for the hearing of Ahmad Şık. It was a concentration camp. From the moment I walked through the door, a woman in her 30s -- I have her name -- had an Amassian woman, her brother in custody, who had been in custody for six days, who had filed a complaint in the financial branch and through her lawyer; her teeth were torn apart, her ribs broken, she was tortured in custody, and the prosecutor was not receiving her petition, she was insulted. He got his petition by barely getting in the way. I've spoken to all the lawyers who have been there, the detention centers where torture has become an administrative practice, and no investigations can be conducted. Dear friends, the State of Emergency is not a rose-like regime, we know that, a regime where fundamental rights and freedoms are suspended, and we know that. Do not speak of the State of Emergency as if nothing has happened here. The detention period is thirty days, thirty days is torture. Today, there are six journalists in custody for 11 days, 6 journalists. Under what circumstances are they in custody? Under extraordinary circumstances. Look, just two days ago at Okmeydanı, two young people are saying secular things in a cup of coffee, and I'm reading the exact same thing: these are people who try to oppress us with their massacres. That's enough! That's it! From now on, we will not allow ISIS or any jihadist or reactionary gang in our quarters. There's a flag that needs to be raised in the face of regression, and it's called the secular flag. Today, secularism means freedom, brotherhood, a human struggle for life. We call on everyone to be the guardians of this struggle - reactionaries, fascists, presidential lovers. Thank you for listening. They're having this conversation, dear friends. The Ministry of Interior aims to target the Chief Constable's office and has been taken into custody early in the morning and has been taken to court today. Look, to defend secularism in Turkey today...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0250par0547	Your Holiness, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0251par0548	The Minister isn't listening.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0250par0549	Congressmans, Mr. Godkulu is speaking, but from the hum, believe me, I'm having trouble following Godkulu even though I'm from time to time close. Please, sir... Mr. Secretary, please leave the MPs alone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0251par0551	Mr. Home Secretary, please listen.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0552	I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice to listen specifically, Mr. Attorney General.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0250par0553	Mr. Godkulu, go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0554	Look, Mr. Secretary... Today, defending secularism is considered an incitement to hatred and hostility. I'm reading the verdict... because of this text I've read, because of this text I've just read, these two young people have been arrested. What article was he arrested for? The 216th Amendment of the Penal Code, or the people, publicly demeaning religious values adopted by some of the people...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0253par0556	Let's hear it from him.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0557	He was arrested from 216, 216, and arrested from this, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0253par0558	Read it, read it, read it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0559	Today, defending secularism is considered a crime according to Article 216, and the perpetrator is a judge and you know what he says, dear friends? What's the upper limit of the punishment...? Six months to a year. Since when was a year's sentence a reason for arrest, Mr. Secretary? Since when?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0253par0560	How dare you defend the terrorist who killed the judge!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0561	Come out here and tell me.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0253par0562	You're defending the people who killed the prosecutor, the people who killed the prosecutor!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0563	Look, the Falls Courthouse and all the other courthouses have turned into concentration camps. Look, there's an unbiased and unindependent judicial order, and this judicial order is completely...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0254par0565	Don't defend terrorists!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0255par0566	Why don't you tell me what you're talking about?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0567	It works on the basis of the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court is the responsibility of this order, this unlawfulness, I'd say.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0256par0568	Let us also tell you about the person who betrayed his government.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0569	Come on, talk from here! Come talk to me here.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0257par0571	Sing "Tweet" too.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0252par0572	Come talk to me here.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0258par0573	I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0259par0574	Your Holiness, since I had to interrupt your conversation, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0260par0576	Dear friends, it is the duty of all our citizens to defend secularism today, all our citizens. The principle of secularism protected by the Constitution cannot be considered a crime, and no judge can issue an arrest warrant for it. We'll mess with those judges' foreheads, too!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0261par0578	You're deflecting, you're deflecting.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit03spe0259par0579	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Congressmans, I've just mentioned the hum in the General Assembly, but despite this warning, this hum hasn't stopped. I told the MPs to leave the ministers alone because he was giving a speech concerning some of the ministers, Mr. Godkulu. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger in order to stop the humming.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0259par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Article 37 of the Interior Charter, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, we continue to discuss the motion to be taken directly into consideration. Now, as a member of parliament, Eskişehir MP Gaye Beseler. Yes, please, Mr. Niceer.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0262par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers have just been approved by the third State of Emergency Justice and Development Party vote. We've been in the State of Emergency for six months, arrests, discharges, suspensions, detentions... what has changed in the country and declared another State of Emergency for six months? In and out of the country, inside and outside of the walls and outside of the prison, anyone who speaks, speaks, reads, thinks, is either in custody or under arrest. Our justice system has become gangrene, and if we don't treat this gangrene together, you'll find that gangrene will one day cause your leg to be amputated, too. If your friends, who were comrades yesterday, dropped bombs on you today, you need to think better of tomorrow. We need more freedom than ever, more secularism than ever. See, Mr. Sezgin Godkulu's proposal of the law is extremely important. The basic human rights have been under the name of the State of Emergency for six months now. Up to 30 days of detention, people who have been under arrest for months, people who don't know what they're accused of, people who are still waiting to be brought to trial are our citizens. While the state is obliged to protect and protect the safety and freedom of its citizens, today the state has declared all its citizens potential criminals. Dear lawmakers, what a contradiction, what a contrast, what a paradox. The journalists, academics, judges and soldiers... who don't know how long they're going to be imprisoned in prisons... are the enemies and all those who oppose you should be arrested in the State of Emergency. You've exploited people's beliefs, violated their professional honor, not enough. Why do you arrest a journalist who speaks his mind and applauds the ignorant who vomits their hatred in supporting networks, newspapers, lynching operations? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The only reason you're getting so angry is because the ground under your feet is shaking. The more you slip, the more aggressive you get. Yesterday you called the people you brought in from Ergenekon. So, what happens tomorrow? When are you going to apologize to those who are under arrest today? When you apologize to those who are under arrest today, do you have any reason to apologize again? You are the ones who brought Ahmet Şık to the market today for propaganda. You fear Ahmad, Ahmet, and all the truth. (HPP applause) Ahmet sends a message from the inside to all of us, saying: "Don't blacken the neck. I send greetings to Ahmet Şık, and to those who have been expelled from nine villages like him. You will never, ever contaminate the bright minds of the people you imprisoned inside. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And finally, if you want to get to know a country, see how people die in that country. Albert Camus said. And I'm saying, if you want to know about a power, look who that power has trapped in prisons. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0263par0017	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, we are starting talks on the opening of a gene for Interior Minister Sulejman Soylu (11/14) on the alleged rights violations and increased terrorist incidents, which have been carried out by İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu and Mus MP Ahmet Yıldırım on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. The government is in place. The motion has been printed and distributed before, and since it was read at the beginning of today's merger, I'm not having it reread. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I read the names of the members of the following members: Mizgin Irgat, Bitlis MP; on behalf of the groups, Mehmet Erdoğan, MP of the National Movement Party; on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Fizz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP; Faik Öztrak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Mehmet Mush, İstanbul MP; Süleyman Soylu, Minister of Interior on behalf of the government. Now, as the first sayer, Mizgin Irgat, who has the motion, I give my word to the Congressman of Bitlis. Here you go, Mr. Irgat. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) rows. Mr. Irgat, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0264par0032	Mr. President, before we go on the agenda, in fact, in a way that is contrary to the procedure expressed by our party group, we said yes to a three-month extension of the OHAL, which is the source of this gene, and perhaps to an undetermined period of time, and we extended that process for three more months. Yes, today Mr. Bostanci gave examples of our chairman, Foucault, who ran the House. Yes, Foucault actually highlights many of the challenges we face today in his books, revealing that all areas of existing relationships are political. Moreover, he argues that these relationships are historical fictions, so you can be transformed, and in your seminars, and in your recent study of ethics, it is a necessary attitude for individuals to constantly question and force circumstances that surround them. The private and public area of economic and technical relations also reveals that all areas of the network are politicised. Besides, these relationships are historical fiction. Thus, they are transformable or reversible. And many of us have read the book The Birth of the Prison. In 1757, the Church of Paris speaks of an execution in front of it. It tells a very detailed story of those executions, the part about the pliers and their flesh being torn out. So it also tells you what decisionmakers do to the body. Although the decision makers now claim that they have not done so many times to the body, we can make it very clear that the violence they practice on the body and on the soul continues in today's modern world. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Ministry of Interior, provide services to the public through local administrations, including preventive procedures with police and bureaucracy under its authority, and for democracy and for the welfare of the people. So basically, the Home Office is in charge of peace of mind. If it is an indication of whether or not the representatives present at the Ministry of Interior are successful, it is very relevant to the two main categories. As I said at the beginning of the talk, when we look at the term of service, which is currently being conducted by the interior ministers, the duration of the State of Emergency is not far from the deficits and violations that may have been made by the 90-year-old republic's balance. The speakers here expressed many things, saying, "Let's go east and ask about the State of Emergency there." I come from there, Mr. Secretary, from Bitlis. In Bitlis, six of our municipalities had won the elections -- I had mentioned this before -- but each of our six mayors was sent to prisons with the same arguments and the same statements as the governorship had made, and the trustees were replaced by your Ministry. In law, we know very well that one-type, single-tongued investigations are actually produced from a point, a center. Here are the statements from the Bitlis Governor's office. When I look at the language he wrote, the search, in the homes, in the municipalities, and in the municipalities as well as in the houses of the presidents has found a lot of digital data in their own homes, and as a result of these evidence, the mayors and co-chairs have been arrested, but Bitlis Governorate cannot explain any of the evidence based on his statement. For months, your investigators have spent a lot of time in our municipal buildings to find the necessary evidence and perhaps to make it red-handed, but your inspectors who have not reached a single evidence in any municipality... have been arrested, the mayor of the DBP, the mayor of the city, and the trustees who are now close to 70. Mr. Secretary, in these counties where you've been, have you had a meeting with our people, the mayors, the mayors in the prison? Did you get any ideas from them? Did you actually talk to the people who voted for these municipalities, except for the official procedures of governorship and the city's bureaucracy, did you get their opinion? Have you had a chance to examine their state of mind? Bitlis, same Bitlis as long as I can remember. And when we look at all the cities that have been taken into custody, where they've been arrested, the prisons have finally been restored to our municipalities, who have been considered a problem of order and have no central support throughout the work system. Hakeza, co-chairs of the Peoples' Democratic Party, which is the third-largest party of this Assembly, and 12 MPs are not here right now, not in this Parliament's work, but in what law shall we explain their presence in prison? Is the State of Emergency, the state of emergency, enough data to explain this illegality? Unfortunately, in this country, we are wondering when this government, which is not capable of solving the problems of peoples, communities, and all the peoples that make up Turkey, will give us self-criticism. Yes, the purpose of this gene is given to you, and you've read it clearly. In the face of this view and what we've been through, Mr. Secretary, the Home Office has failed to carry out its mission properly. His most important task has not been to bring inner peace. Instead of reducing polarization between peoples, it has increased polarization. And there's no doubt that with three more months of voting here today, the State of Emergency will lead the country to the most antidemocratic practices, the Middle Ages of Foucault. After we get out of here, and tomorrow in the region, anywhere in Turkey, we will not be able to explain the consequences of this State of Emergency and the unjust, illegal process that we have experienced. Thus, with this motion, we may have taken a step forward in resolving Turkey's peace, Turkey's problems. We call as opposition party, the new constitution you are trying to make is not a constitution that will solve all the problems of this people, Turkey, and save us from our pains. The existing Constitution, the system that is being brought in, is a new constitution that will not carry us far beyond the rights, laws, and democracy that we really need. We'll discuss it here when it comes to it. But by the hand of trustees and by the curfews that have lasted for days in the region, by the practices that have brought Şırnak to the point where they can wipe it from this list, from the map...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0265par0043	Mr. Irgat, I'll give you one more minute due to the loss of your time.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0264par0044	Thank you. ...we've submitted a motion to the Home Secretary who's been fired by arrests and detentions, who's not enough to compensate for the victims of public workers who have been expelled, and who's still in the classroom in that sense. So we think that the days that have been debated and perhaps a good course of negotiations in Turkey will be the biggest solution to this country. Because on that day -- really think about the days after June 7th -- there was hope in this country at the point of a peace atmosphere and a solution to problems. But unfortunately, I believe that in the wake of the explosions in Suruç, Ankara Gar, and today Reina, a republic of fear was created, and that the OHAL, which is guaranteed to continue, would not set up a democratic system in this country today with your votes. With love, with respect.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0266par0049	Thank you, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0267par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0266par0051	Mr. Bostanci, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0267par0054	Mr. President, we'd be happy to refer to literature in political debates here. However, during that reference, we would also like to make a record of our objections to the fact that a number of metaphors that exceed the bounds of exaggeration are justified and inappropriate. The book that Mr. Irgat was talking about is the Birth of the Prison. During his arrival, a man named Damiens (born 1757) who attempted to assassinate the king was mentioned from morning until evening in Paris about an execution on his own body based on persecution and suffering, carried out by pages and pages. In this book, Foucault basically describes the birth of the prison, which he called the great closure, as a method of punishing the cause of it, as a way of dealing with the human body over persecution and suffering. Now, to get up there from Damiens' example and connect with today's practices of the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0266par0057	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0267par0059	...to make such a connection is indeed beyond the bounds of excess, and I would like to say that it is simply not right to establish such a bond of nature. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0266par0061	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0268par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0266par0063	There's an intellectual debate. I think there's been some bullying on me, too. Mr. Speaker also mentioned Foucault. I think I have a right to defend myself. Here you go, Mr. Irgat. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0269par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, so we don't have time or energy to discuss Foucault and Foucault's books here. We're actually talking about the most important point and the agenda, the victims of the extraordinary state. So I wanted to give you a brief example of what we've been going through, what we've been through, what we've been through, what we've been through, what we've been through at the police station, what we've been through. If we want to discuss Foucault, we can create a separate agenda for this, and I can make a promise. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0270par0070	Then let's have a Foucault session one day.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0271par0071	Mr. President's president...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0270par0072	I'd appreciate it if I could lead. My favorite definition of Foucault is that he defines the light, the intellectual and intellectual, he considers these two concepts very well. He describes the light as: "He who uses his savings in the field of political struggle. " It is a beautiful definition. I'd like to take this opportunity to contribute to this discussion, to this discussion. Now, I promise the groups. On behalf of the groups, the first voice belongs to Mehmet Erdogan, an MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0272par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the motion that the Peoples' Democratic Party of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has made regarding Mr. Süleyman Soylu, the Minister of Interior. I hereby salute your high council. For the Turkish state and the Turkish nation of 2017, I pray to God that it is a blessing to all mankind. To this day, I remember with mercy and gratitude our heroes who have been martyred for the unity of our government, our nation, and for the sake of our nation. And thanks to our veterans, I wish them a healthy, peaceful life. I wish our soldiers, our police, and all our security forces, who are currently fighting terrorism under difficult circumstances. May Allah be their protector and their helper. While our intention is not to criticize, I would like to point out that there are some issues in which we can refresh our memories and then think more clearly about the fight against terrorism. The AKP's Minister of Interior, who has ruled Turkey for 15 years, said on December 10th that the PKK took the militants to the mountain in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, and we learned the official figures of the state. The dates that stand out here are 2013 and 2014. In 2013, 2,519 and 2014, 5,312 militants were taken to the mountain, Mr. Minister said. At this point, I'd like to remind you of a paragraph of my statement from the General Assembly of 14/12/2013: again, in the so-called opening process, you said everything would be fine. But the developments don't seem to be so great. If all is well, why is the PKK not leaving weapons, taking some militants abroad, but most importantly, the PKK has been taking thousands of our young people to the mountains in ways it has never done in 30 years? If it's all good, what's the reason for these young people getting up the mountain? If there won't be any more noise, if the guns won't speak, will these young people pick flowers on the mountain? When are you going to realize you can't go in the sack with the snake? If everything has turned to a rose, why is the head of the serpent in Kandil gonna lift up two heads and threaten you and our country? You will not speak out against those who threaten Turkey from Kandil. After that, you will say, "Everything is a rose. There is no such thing, my friends." And that's when we told them, unfortunately, we couldn't make anyone hear our voice, and we don't understand that the people who lived those days would be on the stand with these paintings today. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have repeated over and over again in their many speeches, Mr. President of State Gardens, that the process of dissolution, called solutions, would not bring anything to our country. What we have come to today is far beyond 2013. Today, betrayal networks, such as PKK, PYD, ISIS, DHKP-C and GER, are taking turns in and out against our government and our nation, feeding from the same source and reaching the same final goal. Their common goal is to lead Turkey into chaos, like any other target country in the region, to disrupt our national unity and brotherhood. Today, it is the most important task for all of us to look at the situation from a very different window and get the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, out of this terror spiral. We, as the National Movement Party, have thus far acted on my country and my nation, and then my party. We have never pursued the political interests of our country's back, and we have no intention of doing so after that. Everyone has to do their part about getting out of here. First of all, we're going to fight terror every day. Mr. Home Secretary, who says, "My first advice to you is to start this fight by removing the solutions to your ministry's website of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security." You're trying to tell me what you do every day, but the actions continue at full speed. Again, Law 6551, which took effect on 16 July 2014, stands in its place, Mr. Secretary. We expect you to consider the end of the so-called solution process, the Enhancing of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration, the removal of the Law, and the account of those who have done wrong according to this law. You said the State of Emergency in the fight against terrorism, and we supported the State of Emergency in the idea that it was necessary to fight it. If there is a flaw in the Anti-Terror Law, bring it, and let us meet, and let us eliminate the lack of it; and if there is a flaw in the Penal Code, bring it, and let us also discuss it. But of course, that's not all there is to it, Minister. For years, you ignored the government, and it destroyed many institutions of the state. Today, these government-destroyed institutions need to be reconstructed. The gaps in intelligence and the state memory of counterterrorism must be filled. Those who praise terrorists and their terrorist leader should still not be governors in this country, thanks to you, Mr. Secretary. Now, after this time, there is no defence, there is self-defense, it is the entire country. We expect you to establish a security bureaucracy with a spirit. Of course, intelligence is one of the most important elements in counterterrorism. It's hard to say that intelligence is sufficient in today's events in our country. Our intelligence structure needs to be strengthened so that it can fight terrorist organizations that we are currently dealing with, and the number of operations based on intelligence must be increased by the immediate assessment of information received. It's obvious that general intelligence in the fight against terrorism isn't very effective. Therefore, point intelligence and point operations must be carried out, and society must not be disturbed. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another issue is social media. Shares through social media are driven, provocative, disturbing our society. It also causes information pollution. It is important that society be informed at the right time and by the authorities, before they forget that social media today is a reality. Again, a serious psychological action centre against the chaos and perception management that many terrorist organizations are trying to create through social media has to be managed by your ministry. In this framework, legal action against separatists and traitors who are trying to camp society through social media, trying to cultivate seeds of hatred and hypocrisy in society must be done quickly. Again, I've said over and over again from this bench that the implementation of the State of Emergency should not be used for some arbitrary practice, but for the purpose of ending terrorism. In that sense, terror nests in major cities that make it easier for terrorists to act in major cities need to be destroyed. In what great city have you ever performed operations that would satisfy us and the public? We didn't see that, Mr. Secretary. Terrorists who have been supported by terrorist activities in major cities continue to act in major cities. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have so far made important services to ensure Turkey's unity and peace of mind, but Metropolitan Law 6360 has reduced the contact of our governors and trustees with villages and villages, with a municipal application of the province's borders. This Metropolitan Law, which has thus far prevented the fight against terrorism, must be removed, and villages and cities must be restored to their legal personalities and the state nation's hug must be strengthened. Mr. Secretary, another piece of advice is, please, don't mess with the operating systems. Special Ops is our eyeball, a unit that has proven itself in the fight against terrorism. To date, this unit has always chosen personnel from within the police force, volunteers from inside police officers have been selected, and this structure has been used by its trainings. Now you've started hiring directly here. This is a very wrong practice, and when there's time, give up this practice before these exams are over, take those children to the police force as police officers and send those volunteers to Special Ops. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been underprivileged by extraordinary circumstances since July 15th. A number of low-level public officials, who have only had contact with ا, have been heavily interfered with, either the upper bureaucracy staff, or the political foot, have not been touched. Again, the elements associated with the PKK and other terrorist organisations within the state have not been properly addressed. If any of this had been handled properly, perhaps the martyr Muhammad Safiturk, our Derik governor, would have been among us today. If some brainwashed militants who continue to brainwash young people today are still on duty, how do we achieve the fight against terrorism? In this regard, we expect the possibilities of the state of emergency to be used effectively against all terrorist organizations. Another thing to do is to drain the financial resources of terrorist organizations. It is still possible to find illegal cigarettes in the heart of Kızılay, where oil stations in the cheap gas race are still disturbing our eyes. Our country used to be known as the transit point of drugs, but today, unfortunately, in our country, the age of drug use is down to middle school. It is important that the issue be seriously addressed, both for the protection of future generations and for the draining of the resources of terrorists. By the way, a number of companies related to the financial foot of ▪ are being appointed trustees or confiscated today. We have no objection to that, but our expectation is that you show the same sensitivity against businesses and companies that help PKK, DAEŞ, and other terrorist organizations. We expect the government to take the necessary steps on this matter in no time. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems of our country is border security. In that sense, when we look at recent events in our country, it seems that many terrorists still cannot be stopped from crossing our borders. In this regard, the priority in ensuring border security must be removed from the application of resource transfer through TOKI to important points. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) must be cut off through the Iraqi border, ISIS on the Syrian border, and DEAŞ on the Syrian border. Again, some countries need to prevent the flow of weapons and ammunition to terrorist organisations because the explosives used in the recent terrorist attacks in major cities have been known to be specialized explosives, not handmade, not simple explosives; explosives used only in the inventory of serious armies. In this regard, border security is getting a little more important every day. In this regard, Operation Firat Shield is also important for the destruction of the terrorist formation in Syria. Hopefully, from now on, both our relatives and Syrians in Syria will be at peace in their homes, preventing anyone from pushing chaos and turmoil into Turkey through terrorist organizations through Syria. In the coming period, Kandil would have to be brought to ruin and end the transfer and management of members of the terrorist organization in Turkey via Kandil. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the things that often comes up is private security. Today, a number of private security schools have been transformed into a private security certificate factory. Nearly 1 million people have received private security certificates and the number of private security personnel already employed has exceeded the number of our police. However, their training, employment, and ability to intervene will be further debated. In this regard, the construction and training of a private security organization must be reconsidered, and the private security service should be taken away from being a cheap security agency and really be a part of our security. Mr. President, from July 20, 2015 to today, we have lost 1,080 children, 663 citizens, including 600 soldiers, 382 policemen and guards, 63 guards and 35 civil servants. 2,105 soldiers, 1,564 police officers, 74 rangers, 4,277 citizens have been injured. The time for words is over. The great Turkish nation expects will from the Veteran Assembly and the government. More than ever, our nation needs peace, unity, and resurrection. Instead of making excuses, if there's any solution other than what we said, bring it in, we'll talk, we'll come up with new solutions. You've always ignored our proposals, our proposals. At least today, to our proposals, Mr. President of State Garden, listen to the concept of counterterrorism, which has been repeated over and over again in the fight against terrorism, and let us bring Turkey to peace. Mr. President, we can't discuss Turkey's real agenda as long as there's talk of terrorism. Turkey has unemployment on its real agenda today, economic difficulties in Turkey's real agenda, shortage of income. Today our peasant can't sell the crops he produces, he can't make any money from them. The tourism industry is in great trouble because of the treacherous terrorist incidents. This industry has no strength to stand. So we need to get terror out of Turkey's agenda as quickly and as radically as possible. In the final chapter of my words, I would like to repeat the calls of our Mr. President at today's group meeting: the Turkish state, Turkish country and national identity have been earned with martyr blood and should not be removed from memory, for no time in history, the betrayal of the Turkish nation has been left unrequited and unrequited. We are members of a great loving cause that will embrace both the east and the west, and Alevi, and Sunni. This flag is mine, and this country is mine. We make peace with all who say, "This is my land." We open our hearts. There's no good in breaking up. The day is the day of the merger. The address of the merger is the great Turkish nation. The centre of reconciliation and peace is the state of the Republic of Turkey. It's not the painful memories of the past that guide us, it's the light of the future. My call is to the entire political institution and to the government: let us be one without waiting, let us be alive, let us be big. Let us build together the future of Turkey. Let's reach the peaceful, prosperous future together. Let's destroy terrorism in a national agreement. We will live as a proud and peaceful independent nation, or we will fall into a trap of division and disintegration by bowing to global games. Turkey will always be the eternal homeland of the Turkish nation. The Honourable Turkish flag will wave on this country forever high beyond the reach of treacherous hands. Turkey's unity, prosperity, happiness, and the only guarantee of its future are to unite under the moon-star al flag. A nation's honor and dignity is its national unity and brotherhood rising above common values. If our national unity is wounded and our brotherhood is shaken, there is no turning back. My belief is that the Turkish nation will not allow artificial discrimination, futile efforts, but will continue its union forever. We owe it to history, to our profession, to our beloved nation, and to generations to come. The day has come when this debt will be paid. If a steel will is created to carry Turkey into an honorable future, no one will be able to hold us, no one will be able to get ahead of us, crises, chaos and coups, I believe they will turn into cadavers. Let's make Turkey the shining star of the region and the sphere. Let's break the back of betrayal together. Come on, let's seal eternity on the words of my Happy Turk. Let's draw together a wall of flesh, faith, faith, faith, the idea that can't be broken, unbreakable and unbreakable. We, the National Movement Party, will vote no for this gene. We don't mind fighting terrorism like others do. Our criticism is that the fight against terrorism was not done the way it should have been done. In this regard, I'd like to express that we will vote no, we will reject this motion to criticize the fight against terrorism. However, if we don't support this gene, it doesn't mean that the Minister is doing very well in the fight against terrorism. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0273par0111	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu is in Demir. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0274par0115	Mr. President, our dear people, who are unable to follow us right now, are a member of the administration tasked with providing the safety of lives and goods of citizens in the country and foreign visitors in the country, to establish regular and stable work of institutions. Under the definition of this mission, Interior Minister Sulejman Nobleman was transformed into a disaster engine headed towards Dante's hell. Every place in the country has been transformed into a potential criminal with the potential for an attack. Clearly, such destruction has never occurred throughout the history of the Republic. During the time of the Interior Minister's Minister's motion, a bomb attack was launched in downtown Van on September 12, 2016. In all, 56 of our citizens were injured, including seven of our citizens. On October 6, 2016, 10 of our citizens were injured in the explosion of a motorcycle bomb in Yenibosna. On 24 November 2016, a bomb-loaded car was detonated in the Adana Governorate parking lot. Two of our citizens were killed in the attack and 33 of our citizens were injured. On November 4, 2016, 11 of our police officers lost their lives in an attack on a bomb-loaded vehicle near the additional building of the Security Directorate in Bağlar district of Diyarbakır province. In two separate attacks in Beşiktaş district of İstanbul on December 10, 2016, 45 of our citizens were killed and 155 of our citizens were injured. On 17 December 2016, a bomb-loaded vehicle attacked the bus carrying soldiers in Kayseri. Turkish Armed Forces have announced that 13 soldiers have lost their lives and 48 soldiers have been injured. On December 19, 2016, Russian Ambassador to Ankara Andrei Karlov lost his life in an armed attack at an exhibition he attended in Ankara. The attack was carried out by police officer Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş of the Interior Minister's Security Agency, and this attacker was killed with dozens of ways to get caught alive. Finally, on 1 January 2017, an armed attack took place in Reina, one of Istanbul's most famous nightclubs, in the early hours of the new year. One of the attackers who fired bullets at those who were there for the New Year's celebration killed 39 people. In the attack, four people were severely injured, 65 were injured. Despite the fact that there has been information from several sources, including the United States, and we have taken safety precautions with 25,000 police officers in Istanbul. Despite what he said, this massacre was also noted as an eye-to-eye massacre. Reina's attacker was on the run and the Home Secretary went after young people who had reacted to the massacre on Twitter. On the other hand, the people who lost relatives in Suruç have gone to the place to put carnations in order to share the pain that happened in Reina, and these people have been taken into custody by the police in the interior minister's entourage. What's it mean to detain painful people, folks? These people were detained until midnight last night. Until then, not a single person had been taken into custody for the Reina attack. While the country suffered the loss of its country during the Noble period, Mr. Süleyman was busy with the pressure and closures imposed on NGOs, press and publishing institutions. As of December 2016, the balance sheet of the State of Emergency, which the government claims will not affect civilians, has been compiled. According to this, 83,000 people were exported, 83,000 were exported, more than 2,000 institutions were closed. The Ministry of Interior has locked the doors of hundreds of associations that have nothing to do with the coup attempt. Almost all media and broadcasters who were not from the AKP have been shut down. Today, ally media writes, ally media reads. Journalists who have been a symbol for years are in jail today. On December 30, 2016, 96 associations were closed in 20 counties under the order of the Interior Minister. The civil society, one of the reasons for modern government's existence and its component, is being tried to be destroyed today by hostile approaches. Many associations from children to refugees, women to the poor have been shut down, which have served widely and are also subject to pressure in the AKP partnership with coupters. After these closings, Minister Sulejman Soylu made a statement exactly as follows: We have closed 370 associations. Why? They're going to stay there, they're going to panic, they're going to support the terrorist organization, and we're going to see them as a legitimate body. We hit the lock and it's gone. Come on, open it up and let's see. Now, when we look at this explanation, who do you think it is that appears to be? (a) he may be a prominent mob leader (b) a man who is a chic misogynist, a typical neighborhood bully (c) and a politician whose choice is that power has poisoned him and we probably won't even mention his name in the near future. It's obvious to us. We leave the practice of a ministry that has nothing to do with the coup attempt, but also with the conscience of you, and then with the public. The area where Mr. Solomon Nobleman has taken over the Ministry of Interior, ironically the most successful, is the attacks and pressure of our party. More than 200 parties attacked our building before June 7th with stones, guns, bombs. On 5 June Diyarbakır, our Great Humanity Meeting was bombed. Between June 7th and November 1st, our party office was attacked again by nearly 300. In the time of Solomon Noble, another step has been taken, and our entrance to our headquarters has been banned, and many attacks on our headquarters and our party buildings have been carried out. Our co-chairs and deputies have been taken hostage, and the latest comedy, drama, tragedy...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0275par0123	PKK did it, PKK! The PKK did this to you!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0274par0124	You'll ask them and the Minister because he's responsible for the PKK and the DAEŞ and ISIS and the cocktail organizations and the others. So since he's the Minister, you'll have to ask him, I'm sorry, I can't answer. Yeah, there's been another incident that we've had a lot to discuss between us, whether it's comedy or drama or tragedy, but we can't decide. Right in front of our headquarters, an attack on a snowman by our friends by the police and his arms were broken. Yes, it was done to even the snowman during the Minister of the Interior. A total of 8,737 people have been taken into custody since July 22, 2015, as a result of political genocide operations against our party's base and components. 2,704 people were arrested among them, including our co-Chairs, MPs, co-chairs, co-chairs, executives and party members. 976 people including 19 HDP co-Chairs and 56 district co-chairs have been taken into custody from December 12 and 218 people have been arrested. Following the ISIS attacks, no one was taken into custody, but our MPs Ahmet Alton, Mehmet Altan, Hüsni Mahalli, Ahmet Şık, Engin Aydın, cartoonist Musa Kart, Nazlı Ilıcak, Ali Bulaç, Şahin Alpay, political co-Chairs Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ -- members of our group -- were arrested in detention. Sadly, in our country, which had been 81 cities during the Ministry of Süleyman Soylu, for many years, Şırnak had been wiped off the map and the number of cities had been reduced to 80. By the end of last year, the curfews, which were declared in Diyarbakır on 71, Mardin on 18 in Şırnak, on 14 in Hakkari, on 11 in Muş, Batman and Bingley on two occasions and on 1 in Tucson, have been declared at least 125 times in total, have found 2,585 days in total. This painting shows that even the country itself cannot be managed, and proves that the Home Secretary is the largest shareholder. On the other hand, the Minister is also responsible for violence against women who glorify war and manhood by praising militarism at every turn. The minister, who is obliged to maintain the safety of everyone in the country today and apply the Istanbul Convention, is still trying to address that militant male dominant vein by advising men to sacrifice, as if it is not enough that he cannot protect women. Closets include seven women organisations who have been working in the field of violence against women for many years, who have collected important experiences, and who have been part of the convention of women's shelters and solidarity centers since 1998. Similarly, the appointment of trustees to many municipalities in September has led to the closure of municipal women's counselling centres, which have had experience in violence against women for many years. Do you know what services are provided in the appointed municipalities today when women who support women close down? The trustee assigned to the City of Ağrı Diyadin is pressing a calendar on behalf of Erdogan and forcing him to hang to the shop.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0276par0131	No way...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0274par0132	Yeah, I got pictures. Because of the State of Emergency, women say they were unable to be placed in shelters because of lack of personnel or had to wait for hours at police stations. The same has been said today during a visit to the Purple Roof with Mr. Fatma Benli. Violenced women have to wait in police stations because of lack of personnel. Violence is no laughing matter. Violence against women, especially in this kind of country, when violence, terror, is much higher in the world, is ignored much more, and that house is often ignored by what's happening in the streets, in the corners, that violence is a constant violence. When I look at your smiling faces, I really don't understand anything. Yes, as we witnessed the assassination of Russian Ambassador Andrei Karlov, the Ministry of Interior, who today ignored the organisation of radical Salafi structures in Turkey. In our country where the minister, who dared to call us Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) politicians, has been killed and killed in the last month by a police officer in his entourage, a person who has committed a massacre in the middle of the Bosphorus can escape. Unfortunately, we're not two, three, four, but we're having trouble assigning a class to the Minister. Dear friends, the Reina massacre has come to pass. For days, many people have pointed out that they want to celebrate the Christian community in our country, which has already been uneasy, and those who wish that Christmas would be left behind in peace and suffering in 2016. Why didn't the Home Secretary go out and celebrate the holidays of this country as he pleased? Why didn't he say, "Why didn't everyone in the country ask for peace, ask for unity?" Why would the Interior Minister, Shevki Yilmaz, want MİT to assassinate HDP people on TV, but in his words -- I repeat -- that MIT should have some heads, that it is Islamic, that it can't be fought with terrorism, the Constitution, and the law -- do nothing but immediately target people who react to ISIS? As if those young people protest today that the radical Selafi groups are not enough to threaten the rights of citizens living in Turkey through their bloody attacks, they are putting serious pressure on the everyday lives of all citizens, especially women. Those who attack women on the grounds of shorts and exercise in the park are encouraged by the climate created by these groups, whose organisation in Turkey has become legitimate. Instead of informing on citizens who are reacting to ISIS today, the minister must establish a peaceful environment for all who can walk freely in the streets of women and live without violence. Yes, when the country needed calm, common language, peace, the Minister of the Interior spoke in a speech, saying that there is no tomorrow, the first priority is revenge. We want to respond to Mr. Nobleman with the verses of Cemal Zayaya. There's blood under all the words. Take a rose in your hand, for example. There's blood under all the words Hold it for five minutes in front of a mirror There's blood under all the words Then cut a pinch of that mirror That mirror smells like a lifetime There's blood under all the words. We think the Minister knows well that the power will not last a lifetime; we know from the fact that in the past, in the case of playing the right horse, he has insulted the AKP (AKP) and then risen to the ministry. The Minister's election process took place on March 14, 2009. The AKP members have long wanted to see their presidents and prime ministers, and the Prime Minister wants to see him as the king. Our country has a culture of charity. Out of three people in Turkey, one is below the poverty line. It is the government that puts people in such a position. We take their words, put them here, and we leave them here, and we prefer to observe the political future of the land, and the new stops of the nobleman in the future. It is the duty of the interior ministers in the parliamentary government systems to ensure public safety, to prevent violence against women, never allow torture, to avoid long detentions, to avoid rhetoric that increases social polarization, not to have an hostile approach. The ministers who failed to do so have resigned many times in the history of politics in the world. I wish the Home Secretary had resigned himself after all that's happened in the country, and we wouldn't have had to apply for it. But I'm afraid it's not possible to see that in this country, we're only hearing male-dominated provocations, such as manhood, youth. Whereas it is not a minister's duty to be a man; it is to do his job well, to do his duty well, to fulfill the responsibility of prevention, to take legal responsibility, and to make the country a habitable place. The minister's job is to make Turkey a country where people who love each other live in solidarity, where their citizens have the right to live. Dear friends, carnations are unfortunately a symbol of pain, and true carnations smell bitter. That's why I'd like to give you these carnations to share the pain, to find out... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because I want our country to be a country where there's no suffering, and that's why we're calling in the Home Secretary to resign, and that's why our client is here.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0277par0152	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0278par0153	Our Home Secretary is also working to end these sufferings. Don't worry.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0277par0154	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0279par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I stand before you to present the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the motion to ask about Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we are going through a very difficult time as a country. The president and ministers now speak of the conditions for the Battle of Sevr and Salvation. We used to fight the separatist terrorist group, and now it's been added by organizations like ISIS, Å, who have abused the faith. We can't start talking about our lost martyrs, innocent citizens, and our guests in this country without asking God for mercy. The last time I spoke to the General Board was on the budget of the Ministry of Economics. In that speech, I began by asking God's mercy for 44 of our citizens, 36 people who were killed in a brutal attack by separatist traitors in the middle of Beşiktas. In 19 days of that talk, new suffering has been added to our suffering. First of all, 14 lions in Kayseri have been killed and our heart is broken by separatist traitors with a treacherous ambush on the way to the market permit. Not enough, a few days later, this time 16 of our brave soldiers who served in Syria to protect our country's territorial integrity were killed in the ambush of ISIS thugs. Finally, in the early hours of 2017, we lost 14 of our citizens, 25 of our guests, 39 innocent lives, in Beşiktas, in another treasonous terrorist attack carried out in Centralköy, just 15 minutes from where the live bombs were detonated just 20 days ago. We were burned again, and the flesh was cut off from our flesh. In these four treacherous attacks, 113 lives have been taken away from us. The Russian ambassador was killed in the country by a special ops police. Dear MPs, his ideology, his purpose, his motive, whatever his goal, terrorism is a great crime of humanity. Whatever the identity of the traitors who are trying to kill innocent people is a terrorist, and the name of the work these traitors do is terrorism. The killings of the heretics who abuse our good religion and make it look like jihadists, and the separatists who call themselves guerrillas, are terrorism for us. Imperialist forces use them all as tongs. Turkey's most radical political movement, the Republican People's Party, has always taken a stand against terror no matter where and where it comes from, but without purpose, and has known it as a humanitarian and national mission. As the Republican People's Party, we expect every party under the rule of Turkey's Grand National Assembly to curse terror regardless of its identity, to distance itself from terrorists. The Republican People's Party always puts the country's interests ahead of party interests in national matters. Fighting terrorism and terrorism, of course, is a matter of unity and unity. In this fight, Turkey's interests stand ahead of every interest. It is also necessary for the Republican People's Party, which is needed for Turkey. For this reason, we have always opened checks to governments in the fight against terror and terrorism organizations, and we will continue to give them, just as we did when the terrorists were brought to their feet by tent courts, just as we would when separatist terrorists set up their own courts, tax offices and bombs under the cities, and when the Fetullahist structures were placed in the state, we will continue to make our mistakes and our proposals in the fight against terrorism in our country, as we did when the government and the opposition and the nation's responsibilities and the opposition, as they did when the government had been placed and the opposition and the government's opposition and the government's mandate. Dear lawmakers, it is also a fact that borders are wanted to be redefined in the Middle East, and that our country wants to be drawn into the violence spiral in the region, but I will establish a game in the Middle East. Wrong and wrong policies, which began in 2007, peaked after 2014. Our nation, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, elected the President to serve as a representative in the constitutional framework, just like Mr. Abdullah Gul before him, but after he was elected President, he declared that these powers were too narrow for me. He declared that he had taken the parliamentary system into the waiting room. This lawlessness encouraged those eager to create other verbs, the country was blown away by coup attempts, terror was scarce, unrest and lawlessness increased. The nightmare of the last year and a half began with the power to push away the will of the nation and to do its best to repeat the June 7th elections. In the process, we've lost more than a thousand of our security guards, police, soldiers, rangers, to violence and terror. However, the number of martyrs we've given in the 1974 Cyprus Peacekeeping Operation 486, 1950-1953, and the number of martyrs we've given in Korea's Battle of Korea in three years -- 731 -- in the last year and a half -- is almost equivalent to the number of martyrs we've given in the Battle of Cyprus Peace and the Korean Wars. With 415 innocent civilian lives lost in this one-and-a-half-year wave of terror, our loss is far greater. Dear lawmakers, if we don't identify the problem correctly, we won't be able to find the solution. Our country has both intelligence and knowledge and experience to fight terrorism, but the government has either accepted that there is a higher mind behind these events than itself, or that is what it seems to be politically. High-minded rhetoric is the biggest mistake in counterterrorism. Powerful states don't make it look like they're starving to terror, they cut off their own belly. Can't you stop the terror? Then you will appeal to the common mind, wisdom, wisdom of this nation. This Veterans Assembly is no doubt where the common mind will be sought and where it will be found. Dear lawmakers, for a long time we have been trying to draw attention to vulnerability in our social life, institutional structure, our relations with our neighbors and our economy. I see that after every terrorist attack, there's always the same message from the staff that runs the country. Terror already exists all over the world, not us, but the upper mind is responsible. If you criticize us, you will disrupt our unity, unity, and brotherhood. Unity, unity, and brotherhood, of course, are you, as a government, doing what is necessary? Do you hold this country, this community together, our national values, our founding principles? Or do you keep silent by saying, "100 years of parentheses close to attacks against the country's carrier columns?" I've given up 14 years, and even in the last few weeks, that's a clear answer, my friends. The statue of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded this republic, brought imperialism to its knees, is being removed from its place. One unsub is doing everything in his power to get people all worked up. There's no sound, friends, nothing, that we've left out from the government against this desecration. When will the Home Office inspectors be assigned? And that's not enough, the community splits through the Christmas celebration. For this, campaigns are being launched on social media. Not enough, the president of the Dianet Affairs Department, which operates on taxes from the citizens of this country, is reading a book last Friday that considers Christmas celebrations in all the country's mosques illegitimate. Does all this serve the unity of the country, the brotherhood, or does it bring water to the mill of terror centers that want to disrupt this country's unity, unity? Dear lawmakers, in order to fight terrorism, we must quickly repair our institutional structure with reason and reason. For 14 years, the coalition of secularists from the faith-oriented political tradition has ruled the country. When our religion praises its master, the political Islamists say, "There is no harm in walking to the same range, and there is no harm in seeing the forehead prostrated." However, in the neighborhood of faith-oriented politics, we learn that loyalty does not happen to the government or to the nation. This time, one of the coalition's partners to rule the country attempted a military coup against the other; 246 of our citizens lost their lives, martyred, injured hundreds of our people, became veterans. This disaster has once again shown that the most important cement that holds this country together is secularism. The secularism of the main institutional milk that separates Turkey from failed states in its geography. Tomorrow, there will still be secularism in the Middle East, which will prevent us from falling into the league of failed states. Another position we will seek refuge in the effective fight against terrorism is the strong parliamentary regime, the liberal democracy and the rule of law. In the balance of security-freedom, our scales must be legal. In Turkey, the law is unfortunately lost. At the end of 14 years, the AKP ruled the country by the State of Emergency, if you can say so. Dear lawmakers, while the country has returned to its place of fire, social, institutional, economic fault lines crack down, power has only one priority, which is to make legal the law-free presidency that has lasted since 2014 and put the country in this state. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask you, does our House have a duty to make up the law to criminals if the criminals don't comply? Doesn't the destruction of his verb in the country for two years show what this country will become if the truth comes? In communities like us, the presidential system will increase polarization and speed up division, science says, history says. However, the government spokesman says that after yesterday's cabinet meeting at the palace, the country still has fires all over the country, as well as good news that they will continue their efforts to enter the presidential regime. The government either doesn't see it or wants to use it as a reason for the polarization, political uncertainty, terrorism, and a fire in the economy that this process creates and will continue to create, as a reason for a freakic presidential proposal that will lead the country to dictatorship and deliver the will of the nation to one man. Dear lawmakers, we need the leverage of a strong and inclusive economy to fight terrorism effectively. The Turkish economy, however, is in great straits. We've gone to the high-income leagues, including account makeup and non-financial rhetoric, which can no longer hide the truth. Look, you've announced today that you're going to extend the presidential agenda and the State of Emergency, and the dollar has set a new record against Turkish lira and has seen over $3.60. In the last year, the companies wrote the loss of 130 billion Turkish liras in currencies on their balance sheet. Trust in the economy has gone down, inflation has been way overreached. With those who had lost hope of finding a job, the unemployment rate was over 6 million. The economy narrowed down for the first time in 27 quarters. Your investor, the consumer's horizon is blacked out. The country's President announced that the water had run out in sebababa, and Turkey settled with Brazil and South Africa on the most fragile lists in 2017. And yet we don't talk about the economy, we spend time with a freaky presidential system that will end the democratic regime in the last days of Byzantine, like those who argue about the sex of angels. However, the political institution and the power have an obligation to provide the young people of this country with jobs and overpowering. Between 15 and 29 years of age, 30 of each of our young people are neither in education nor in internship, or idle friends. Turkey is the worst-cased country in OECD countries. If we don't get these young people in love and work, if we don't give them qualified education, and most importantly, if we don't give them the hope of a future, we're going to add our young people to the desperate masses that globalized terrorist organizations are going to try to recruit. Dear lawmakers, in order to fight terror and terror organizations today, we absolutely need international cooperation. We have to develop good relations with other countries, especially our neighbors, reduce our enemies, increase our friends. One of the first jobs the Republic has ever done was to build solid business units with its neighbors. He also crowned it with the rule of peace in the land. The experience in Syria since 2011, hopefully, and I hope, has also shown its accuracy to the AKP's power. As the Republican People's Party, it is our greatest wish that the ceasefire in Syria return to a lasting peace that will preserve Syria's territorial integrity. Turkey has chosen to position itself in the Western bloc with a strategic preference since 1952. But power now seems to be fighting with this block. The Home Secretary, who was also involved in this session, said on a television channel last July 16th, the United States is behind the attack initiative. The Minister of the Republic of Turkey does not make a claim about an allied country without evidence, which is based on intelligence. Now, I'm asking you, why don't you still demand an urgent NATO summit? Why don't you share what you know there and ask the members for sanctions? Why don't you bring up the use of Figrlik and Diyarbakır bases? Or are you trying to fund the presidential process by creating the impression that you're fighting against seven heifers? Dear lawmakers, it is our right to demand that all international institutions and allies, especially NATO, will cooperate most effectively with us against terrorism and wait for it to be fulfilled. Making such relations a source for domestic politics would weaken the fight against terrorism. Dear lawmakers, in order for us to be at peace as soon as possible, to look to the future with confidence, the government must take immediate steps. First, let us remember what Mr. President said to the United States on February 12, 2015: "We politicians are responsible for the murders committed in our country." (In less than a month only in one district of Istanbul, 83 people were victims of terror in two separate terrorist attacks at a distance from the Prime Minister's Office. Let's find out where weakness, negligence, neglect. The authorities who bear the political and administrative responsibility for this will show the virtue of doing, resigning. If that virtue is not to be shown, and if the Minister continues to make speeches that do not touch soap, as he does today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must hold the position and operate its business. Take away the founders of the republic, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, from the agenda of this country's national values, the institutional philosophy, the secular republic; stop scratching for short-term political interests the fault lines that polarize society, divide the society; especially terrorism in social media and pool media; refrain from the agenda of the parliament's proposal of the freakic presidency, which will lead the country to steepness; instead of secessioning the fault lines of society; start a policy that will embrace everyone; especially the fight against terrorism; especially in the military, intelligence, and in the military, and the new community; start a strong process of secession of security; start a strong movement of security; and start a strong reform in each area; start to create a strong reform; and start a process of security in the country. Dear lawmakers, let the government take these steps that I have drawn in the fight against terrorism, we've already made a blank check for support. Our Veteran Assembly will quickly drag our country out of these troubled days, and we will receive a worthy blessing from our nation. As I complete my words with this occasion, I salute the General Assembly and our valued citizens who follow us once again, wishing that the troubled 2017 would bring blessings to our nation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0280par0177	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. On behalf of the groups, the last word belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Mushan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0281par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words to our security forces who have been martyred in Operation Firat Shield and other terrorist operations, I ask for God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. Again, I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the last Istanbul attack, and for the sake of our nation. We, the state and the nation, are fighting a very difficult war against terrorist organizations in the final process. In this process when we are under asymmetrical attack by subcontractor terror organizations, the terrorist organizations are determined to go after us. It is now being destroyed in its source, or hiding place, before terrorist organisations attack Turkey. Despite the winter conditions, operations are being carried out at lice, at Cudi, in Çukurca, and in many other places, in PKK caves and dens. Operations are being conducted not only in the PKK, but also across the border for terrorist organizations such as the PYD and DEAS, which aim at the unity of our country and our nation. We repeat over and over again: the PKK for Turkey is a traitorous terrorist group, which must be destroyed by the PYD and the DEAS and the DHKP-C. For us, one is no different than the other. In Iraq, our planes are dropping bombs on the top of Kandil, while the targets of DEAS and PYD are being destroyed one by one in northern Syria. Our goal is to eradicate terrorism, and our goal is to continue fighting terrorism until the last terrorist is wiped out -- even if someone is uncomfortable with this statement. This is Turkey's becca issue; this is a national issue because terrorist organisations are threatening the existence of our nation directly and are conducting activities aimed at eliminating the Republic of Turkey. Because the head of our state, Mr. President, has declared a national mobilisation against terrorism and has pointed to this national consciousness. Look, we're dealing with an asymmetrical attack, which is the same way that the PKK is doing a terrorist act with a live bomb, as if they've been ordered from the same place, while DEAS is acting in the same way, and the extensions of the terrorist organization are conducting sensory operations against Turkey through these actions. Only when we look at these recent terrorist attacks can we see how these terrorist organizations work together, how they're run from the center. See, on the one hand, the DEA is carrying out live bomb attacks, while Beşiktaş and Kayseri are carrying out live bombings. Shortly after that, the Russian ambassador was assassinated by the Ankara ambassador. All of these attacks are clear indications of how different terrorist organisations have acted in common with Turkey in the same time period as taking orders from somewhere. It's clear that there's a mind behind these attacks that rules them. To destabilize Turkey, an island of stability, they are putting into action all kinds of dirty games to darken tomorrows of Turkey, to keep Turkey from global and regional issues. Look, once again, I'm telling you, the terrorist organization and its spokesman are subcontractors, their masters, their bosses are out there, they're a tongs used to create chaos in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, today I have made a promise on this gene. I would like to express in particular the question that we're discussing today, why are you struggling so effectively with terror for our Home Secretary? It's a genome prepared with sake. They want the Turkish Republic's Ministry of Interior not to fight terrorism, Turkey to sit hand-to-hand against terrorism and to condone terrorism. No, Turkey won't do it, Turkey won't do it, Turkey won't surrender to terrorism. This gene shows that the operations our security forces operate within the scope of counterterrorism have not only disturbed terrorist organizations, but others as well. No matter who is disturbed, no matter who acts as a spokesman for terrorist organizations, our government will continue its determination to fight terrorism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we look at this generic text, we see statements about the implementation of judicial procedures to HDP MPs arrested. After all, there is a legal issue regarding independent judiciary. I'm not going to say anything about the trial phase here, but I'd like to remind you here with a few examples of how, politically speaking, HDP is a terrorist organization, how it's an angage to the PKK, how it's under its control. First of all, let us remind you that HDP does not view PKK as a terrorist organization. Even in PKK's acts of terror, he cannot condemn the PKK by naming it. I looked at the archives, and I looked at how HDP had made statements after the terrorist attacks of the PKK and the DEAS, and what statements did he use? Interestingly, the HDP, who repeatedly referred to the name of the DEASH after the acts of terror, used the harshest statements, condemned the PKK after its actions with a sentence without using its name. So, when the DEA was responsible for the attack, the HDP, who named it, refused to give the name of the organization when it became the PKK. For some reason, in all of HDP's statements following PKK actions, the state has been blamed, foreign policy has been blamed, government has been blamed, political institution has been charged, but the PKK who acted has not been told a single word. It was as if these people had died in a natural disaster rather than in the PKK's terrorist attacks. I ask HDP: Do you swallow your tongue when it comes to the PKK? I leave this hypocritical approach to our nation's discretion. Dear MPs, you know, the PKK is on the list of terrorist organizations in almost all democratic countries around the world, including the European Union and the United States. So even some Western countries who support terrorism have acknowledged that PKK violence is a terrorist organization, that it is a terrorist organization, but if we look at the co-chairs and spokesmen of the HDP who are political in Turkey, we see the exact opposite picture. Look, what description did HDP's Hakkari MP, who is currently under arrest, make of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? The PKK is a peace and public movement that emerged to turn Turkey and the Middle East into a garden of roses. The HDP MP means bombs, mines, weapons because PKK has only one goal, which is to turn Turkey into a bloodbath, not a rose garden. What kind of recklessness is that, what kind of recklessness is that, what kind of betrayal is that? Again, I leave it to our nation's discretion. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş said just a few months ago: "We do not identify PKK as a terrorist organization." Again, HDP Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ says that it is not terror. Does Figen Yüksekdağ mean that it is not terrorism to slaughter children, civilians, security forces? Who in God's name are you kidding? Who do you serve, who are you trying to exonerate? Now, I'm asking the HDP Group: Do they or do they not participate in these statements of co-chairs and spokesman who praise terrorism? I mean, are they saying that the PKK is martyring our children, our security forces, not acts of terror, just like Figen Yüksekdağ? Of course, I don't think HDP will be able to answer in that sense. You know why? Because, just last month, the group's vice presidents were not allowed to criticize the PKK. He used an expression under the roof of the Parliament. I ask you: You have the right to criticize the state, you have the right to criticize the government, but you have no right to criticize the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? Again, the HDP spokeswoman uses the following statements regarding the operations committed against HDP following the terrorist action: ▪Ankara, İstanbul, Adana, Manisa, Mardin and Mersin are intended not to end the killings, but to incite violence? In other words, HDP spokeswoman has taken HDP and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to be his partners and has threatened this country with PKK terrorism. We haven't left any shoes on these threats until now, and we won't leave them after that. No one can threaten this nation with a terrorist organization behind its back. Dear lawmakers, for God's sake, in what democratic country of the world would such a political party be tolerated by terrorism? If a political party such as HDP had been engaged in any country in Europe, it would have been conducted not once but a hundred times in criminal investigations. When we look at the examples in Europe, we see this result, and I'm going to sort it out one by one. You know, in Spain, a political party called Batasuna was the political representative of the ETA terrorist organization. The Spanish judicial authorities have ruled that this party is connected to terror and violence. Later, the party managers were constantly given examples from here, from the ECHR, and they took it to the ECHR, and the ECHR approved the government's decision on Batasuna. Based on the decision made by the ECHR, I would like to present a few issues to your attention by comparing them to HDP. Look, the ECHR decision stated that the Batasunan municipalities supported the terrorist organization ETA with some banners and drawings, and that it was a crime, and it was accepted by the ECHM. If you look at our HDP municipalities, you will see ammunition coming out of the vehicles and buildings of HDP municipalities. Again, you'll see that HDP's Suruç Municipality has fought on behalf of the terrorist. In the decision of the ECHR to Batasuna, the emphasis on the call for violence and the intentional sharing of missions between terrorism and politics is said to be a crime. When we look at HDP, it is clear that HDP co-Chairs do not consider HDP as a terrorist organization. You know, there were valued MPs, DTPs operating before HDP, he had a president, Nurettin Demirtaş, who is now in Kandil. Stop hanging the terrorist photo, you're sending your former president as a terrorist. How do you explain that? Again, in the decision of the ECHR, the support of the ETA terrorist was considered a crime. When you look at the HDP, you see that they appear at terrorist funerals and even call these terrorists heroes. They go so far that they express them as martyrs. In the ECHR decision, Batasuna was cited as a crime for calling ETA to the streets. When we look at HDP, we all know how HDP MYK (HDP) himself called to the street prior to the October 6th or 7th events. In the following process, all public opinion is known about what HDP spokesman said to stir up the street. Look, today, most EU countries, often referred to, have very strict sanctions for the fight against terrorism. In 1974, the IRA anti-terrorism law was issued against the terrorist organization. With this law, detention proceedings can be carried out for up to 28 days with the savings of the interior ministry for people who are suspected of terrorism without any judicial decision, which can be issued for up to 45 days. The interior minister and police are granted the authority to restrict all basic rights and freedoms, as long as there is only a element of doubt. The Home Secretary has the authority to declare a terrorist organization of national and international organisations he believes are involved in terrorism. An invitation to a terrorist organization or a terrorist organization has been described as a crime. Dressing in a way that raises suspicion that he is a member or supporter of a terrorist organization is considered a crime to carry or display the symbols of these organisations. It was also considered a crime to raise or raise money on terrorism, regardless of whether or not the terrorist organization was declared. According to this law, organizations that promote and provoke terrorism have been regarded as organizations involved in terrorism. According to the law, those who conduct any act of terrorism at any level are considered guilty. Dear lawmakers, let us look at the OHL practices in France, which have been given to many other examples. See, the State of Emergency practices can be made without evidence due to reasonable doubt. Terrorist propaganda websites and social media networks can be blocked. All demonstrations and walks can be blocked. Associations and organizations that break public order can be shut down. Names in the case of security threats can be kept under house arrest; they are allowed to cut off their communications and to put electronic handcuffs on them if necessary. Now, when we look at these examples, we see that Europe does not hesitate to take every precaution when it comes to its own safety and facing terror threats, but when it comes to Turkey, it reminds us of human rights and universal law. Of course, we have politicians who oppose EU law by stressing the steps taken in the fight against terrorism. Now, I want to remind them that all of these measures that I've just counted are measures that have been implemented in EU countries. Dear lawmakers, look, your MP and vice president in this Parliament are clearly thanking the DHKP-C terrorist organization. Who's DHKP-C? In his office at the end of March, the terrorist organization that killed Prosecutor Mehmet Kiraz. Here's the thing: there's an attack on the HDP building in Adana, and then the government explains that it was done by the DHKP-CEC terrorists, but also by lawmakers and vice-presidents using the same statements on May 22nd: the DHKP-C is an address that we never thought of. They've made their own statement. They have expressed their support for us. I mean, the terrorist organization DHKP-C has expressed support for them. We thank them. The Vice President of the HDP says this on 22 May, before the June 7 elections. The co-Chair of the same party has a verdict on the MLKP as a member of Figen Yüksekdağ. Are all these isolated incidents, dear MPs, all of these counts? Of course not. Imagine a party with all sorts of terrorist organizations, even the co-chair of this party has personally acknowledged that they have their backs against the terrorist organization. Now, I don't quite understand what you're asking for when that's the case. Why is a trustee appointed to the municipalities? Again, one of the statements made in the motion. In addition to the reasons I've counted so far and many reasons I won't have to tell you more, the public knows that HDP municipalities provide financing to the PKK, allocate their vehicles for actions, give ammunition depots, hire PKK sympathizers. It's all in plain sight. Now, when the judicial authorities move towards a structure so intertwined with terrorism, a spoon of storm breaks out in the water. When the dissolution of immunity began, our immunity would be lifted. Those who petitioned were turned around when the matter was serious. What did Figen say? What was Demirtaş saying? ▪ They will not be able to judge us. We'll see who judges who. If they think they're wrong, they're wrong. We've prepared all kinds of things, we're prepared for everything. What was the result? Demirtaş and the MPs, who said, "We will not go to court." They were brought to trial. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From now on, it's not about living or running, it's about the courts. Everyone has to wait for the law to decide. But politically, I would like to say that the HDP has distanced itself from the nation rather than distance itself from the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). HDP chose to become PKK's party rather than Turkey's party. HDP, on the one hand, has tried to defame the word peace and brotherhood by defending the PKK. HDP has called for violence and the streets, not democracy. Precious MPs, PKK, Turkey, Kurd, Laz, Çerkek, are a bloody terrorist organization trying to destroy the entire nation without saying "Arab." The baby killer PKK is the enemy of this nation. The PKK is not only a terrorist organization that kills and massacres children in Turkey, it is also a bloody terrorist organization that is trying to destroy other ethnic groups in its arm in Syria. The entire world has seen how to massacre Kurds who don't think as they do in the area of Amude in Syria. Terrorists from the PYD have murdered Kurdish children in the city. Look, even though they're called P.K.K.K., they're doing the same violence, even if it's P.D.D. So in Amûde, where they tortured Yasin Börür's funeral in Diyarbakır, they ran over him with the car, and they killed a five-year-old girl in Amude, and they ran over the other one with a car. Such are the people who have transgressed all bounds. Again, in our eastern and southeast provinces of Turkey, the PKK and its allies have committed political assassinations against our party's executives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give me a minute to wrap this up?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0282par0213	Here you go. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0281par0214	Murderers who massacre civilians and law enforcement by terrorist attacks are members of the terrorist organization, PKK members, and political representatives who protect them. Once again, I would like to express that we condemn, curse, and root the PKK, DEAS, the DEA, and all other terrorist organizations. And for all these reasons, I submit to you that we are going to stand up for this geneor given about our Home Secretary, that we are going to stand by our government as the EC PARTY Group, and as our Prime Minister has stated, we are going to eliminate this terror from Turkey's agenda, that we are going to vote against it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0283par0218	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0284par0220	I don't know if I have to give an example, but the whole conversation was HDP.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0283par0221	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0284par0225	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've actually watched a failure throughout an entire conversation.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0285par0226	The truth hurts, the pain.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0284par0227	I mean, I mean, it's about the Secretary of the Interior, but we're resigning. So that's really the only thing to say, Mr. Mehmet Mush. And I'd also like to say that we're going to review the protocols on the terms you're using, and we're going to apply them to legal means, because you've actually taken this country's policy very well since the 1990s, and you're doing the same thing, and you're doing the same thing. You're not accountable in this country, you're talking only to the HDP, unfortunately, as a government responsible for the loss of lives in this country, and a motion for this government's Home Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0286par0229	Yeah, curse the PKK once.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0284par0230	And you'll keep talking, but I've said it over and over again from this stand...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0287par0231	Answer my taunts, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, and answer my taunts.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0284par0232	...you've been in power for 14 years, we're not; we'd quit if we were you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0288par0235	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The talks on behalf of political party groups are over. Now I promise the government. On behalf of the government, Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0245	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of my person and the government regarding the motion on the motion on the internal affairs ministry issued by HDP MPs. My esteemed lawmakers, the Anatolian land we live on and the Middle East geography we live in next door to has been staged for thousands of years, war, conflict, and its character has lasted until this century. Our Anatolian is in the middle of many political accounts, not only geographically, but also in the wake of the transitional routes, the energy corridors, the water supply, and the fact that the Middle East is adjacent to the Middle East. The revolutions, which began in 1960, were also involved in the conflict process of anarchy and terrorism before 1980. The executives of the coup mentality have been able to institutionalize their guardians' understandings with the constitutions they've established. The focal points that govern terrorism have since 1978 tried to institutionalise and mediate terrorism by the PKK's hand. The coups in Turkey have been clearly revealed over the years, with various information that none of them have been independent from the outside. Like this, the PKK has been known to receive serious outside support, money, weapons and assistance, and to be used as a tool in Turkey and the Middle East. Thus, it is a serious mistake to see Turkey's anti-terrorism process as a fight against a simple armed gang in there alone. Turkey's fight against terrorism is actually a struggle against global forces, using terrorism as a tool -- a term some people don't like -- a challenge against a higher mind. The first goal of those who fight against Turkey is to divide Turkey, at least reduce its power, by its economy in the Middle East, by its culture, by its national unity, by its brotherhood, by its development of Turkey. The rise of terrorism, civil conflict initiatives during Turkey's development or beginning to develop, is a clear indicator of that. I'd like to give you a very simple example. Mr. Prime Minister is here, and he has made those dates very clear, over and over again, from the platforms, from the television screens. On May 3, 2013, Sinop Nuclear Power Plant was signed, $22 billion. Again, the third airport tender was held on May 3, 2013, and the price was 25 billion euros, with its later contributions. On May 14, 2013, the IMF debt was completed. As of May 2013, debt interest is at the lowest rate in history, 4.5 percent. So, what happens at the end of this? The Reyhan attack took place on May 11, 2013, and on May 28, 2013, the Traveling Events began. Now, I'll give you a date again. We're starting to get close to Russia. It is described as one of the most important steps in our geography, but when this closeness begins, a significant phase of the regional process is developing for peace, for a major step forward, and Turkey's July 15 coup attempt is taking place. Not enough -- there's no need to tell much about the process -- the last time Mr. Foreign Minister was in Moscow, Russian Ambassador Karlov was murdered in Turkey. Again, I'd like to point out that the following four events, which the opposition party spokesman evaluated here, were four events, which began immediately at the Istanbul Beşiktaş stadium, and then in Kayseri. And then again, the murder of Russian Ambassador Karlov, who couldn't calculate his lines, and then, at the very last night in İstanbul connecting 2016 to 2017, and in the very early hours of 2017, I'd like to make it clear that the four events that occurred at 01.15 have been staged in Turkey's series of events, as well as we can relate to the third time in which we could have a relationship with the Sinop nuclear plant in which we had not been able to do so much in the first place. I would like to point out that if a purpose in the use of terrorism is to prevent growth, one goal is to prevent Turkey's brotherhood, the accumulation of civilization, the culture of living together from giving hope to this world and to this world. Turkey, which has taken important steps from 2002 on not only its infrastructure but also at the point of democratic development, has been largely freed from the remains of institutionalisation of the coups I just mentioned, and, with the new constitution proposal, has submitted this process to the discretion, judgment, and will of our great Parliament and our beloved nation. The PKK and the PKK meet at the same line, the extensions of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), CK, YPG, the DEAS terrorist organization, which has developed beyond our borders but is among its major goals, are the last arguments the global forces have raised against this development of our country. Terror has been diversified, terrorism has been diversified, the fighting areas of terrorism, the types of actions have been diversified, but it has to be known that Turkey is not the former Turkey. Turkey, in every field and in every sense, I want to say that 1699 Karlofça is the period when we began to decline, and since the first year of the 21st century, Turkey has turned its history upside down, and, thank God, we face many attacks, but we can speak to Turkey with honor that Turkey is at its strongest in the last three hundred years since Karlof. (EC PARTY) His economy has been strengthened, his political stability and will have been strengthened, his democracy has been strengthened, his security capacity and technology have been strengthened.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0290par0251	For him, it's handled in an extraordinary way, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0252	I swear to God, I don't know how to evaluate those who are concerned about Turkey's power under the roof of this House.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0291par0254	In a strong country, so many people don't die. A strong government doesn't owe that much.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0255	Let us all be happy that Turkey is strong.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0291par0256	We are proud to be strong, but not with lies, but with real power.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0292par0257	Is our strength measured by the State of Emergency?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0258	Let us all be happy that Turkey's shortcomings have been eliminated. Now, with bombs exploding, day-to-day courtship...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0293par0260	What do you do then? Why are you telling me this?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0261	... there is no Turkey that is shaken by political stability, paralyzed by coalitions. Today, Turkey is more determined, stronger and closer to the end than ever in its fight against terror, the plague of the 21st century.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0294par0262	I hope he's close to the end, I mean it, I hope. Every time the last pattern explodes.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0263	Mr. President and the valued lawmakers have been criticised in the generic text for the deployment of municipalities. If you'll excuse me, at this point, I'd like to inform our High Council and lawmakers. First of all, let me talk about the legal basis of this practice: the duties of the mayor or deputy mayor are carried out under the authority vested in Article 45 of the City Code. The municipal Law provides a mandate to replace mayors who have been suspended or arrested only because of terrorist crimes. I'd like to put it as an example of practice: for example, there was no such assignment in our Ministry for Karakoçan and Digor Mayors, who were dismissed because of their corruption by investigators and courts, for example, for lack of authority other than terrorist crimes. The city councils have elected the current presidential deputies themselves. So far, a total of 63 mayors -- 9 counties, 45 districts, 9 cities -- have been suspended due to their relationship with the PKK and CHP terrorist organisations. These 63 municipalities have been assigned to all of them, and municipal services are maintained without fail. In addition, 154 council members have been dismissed for the same reason. 42 mayors and 95 legislators have been arrested by judicial authorities. I'd like to share with you here some examples of the events that have led to these arrests and the findings that have entered the audit reports: Van Metropolitan Municipality is a service vehicle registered to the Office of the Office of Support Services, the General Directorate of the Vaski. I mean, why did we relieve these municipalities and why are these municipalities being managed by people we're currently temporarily tasked with? On June 15, 2016, three terrorists were involved in a gunfight, three terrorists were disabled in the vehicle, one Kaleshnikov automatic rifle in the vehicle as a result of the search, two grenades, one rocket launcher.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0295par0265	It's the station vehicle, the office!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0296par0266	Show him over there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0267	Van Metropolitan City.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0297par0268	They were going to tie water?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0269	Yes, I want the House to see this. I'll go on again...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0271	I take it you've set up a court of law there? You judged everyone, it's over.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0299par0272	Was there a water failure, Minister?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0273	Actually, there's more to it than that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0274	You've tried Gültan Kışanak. You've judged Ahmet Turk.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0275	It's not a weapons depot, it's not a weapons depot, it's a list of materials seized in a tractor owned by Mardin Dargateit City, not to mention a very long, one by one, just a few examples: 7 rocket launchers, 5 Kalashnikovs, 1 Kanas. Why are you looking at me with that hateful look?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0278	I am again, sir. I am again, sir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0279	I'm just expressing terror, I'm expressing terror.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0280	Hundreds of people died in this country in your Ministry, not mine.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0289par0281	And 24 antitank rockets, seven grenades...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0283	You've never even been an angel face.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0300par0284	You'll face the facts.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0298par0285	We've seen your faces many times.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0286	And 19 mortar shells and one pistol were seized at Şırnak City Hall on June 28, 2016.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0302par0287	That's how the community puts the evidence, and the police do it with their arguments.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0288	And again, on July 9, 2016, 40 people were injured, including two soldiers and one civilians, who were killed and 16 civilians. There's no truck owned by the City of Mazıdağı, there's no truck, there's no Town Hall, there's nothing there, and...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0303par0289	Tell me about Istanbul, Istanbul.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0304par0290	Is this another country?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0291	...it has been determined that the city's vehicle was the van that the terrorists fled and the van was the van that was used in Mardin Metropolitan Municipality services. It has also been discovered, especially after the June 7th elections, that these municipalities have been using business machines to dig a ditch and build barricades against security forces. It's just that... there are dozens, hundreds of examples of these things, and we can all show them together. Again, I'd like to point out that the terrorist funerals were dedicated to the terrorist bodies, the organization's symbols were placed on them, the trips from the municipal resources were usually organised in countries where the terrorist organization was held, the brothers' municipalities in Iraq and Syria were invented, the Kandil visits were hidden under the invitations of these municipalities, the social benefits were collected only by the families of the terrorists in the mountain, the family of the municipality's employment, the family of any relative who was a terrorist in the mountains, and other incomes in the municipalities are recorded by the organisation. For example, in Van, it is clear that the rents for a co-operative and a room that I will not give the name of -- were collected by the organisation, the same aid supplies were tendered for purchase, but the tender had no record of the distribution of materials, the material was sent directly to the mountain staff, so that some associations mediated, and I would like you to pay attention to this -- were damaged, for example, in the Mardin City archives, where there was a flood in the archives, where the municipal lawyers had been watered down, where they were looking at the cases of terrorism, and there was evidence that there was evidence that there was evidence that there was evidence that there was evidence, and there was evidence that there was evidence that there was evidence that there was evidence. Now, Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, another issue expressed in the genus is related to the closed association and NGOs. I'd like to share the details with you. There are already 110,000 associations in Turkey, which I gave this issue at noon. Now, 1.125/i of this has been closed down, including the PKK/KCK, the DHKP-C, and the DAC. Among the concrete activities of these closed associations are acts such as propaganda of terrorist organisations in the broadcast organs, placing the Republic of Turkey in derogatory statements, explaining the separatist and other prisoners, posting the terrorist leader's posters at association events. A moment ago, Precious Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0305par0297	It's not valuable!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0298	...provided an assessment of the woman. A women's association, an interesting association, 92% of their income is from abroad. In 2013, his income abroad is 18,247; in 2014, he jumps out of nowhere, becoming 234.180; 2015, 191,167. The association was founded in 2004. There are some of you who do civil society work, even acting as MPs. We all see how hard it is to help a association or a sports club for $10,000, and we live and struggle. Now, we know some of the world's different countries -- and we know some of them -- from the day it was founded -- until it was closed -- I want you to pay attention to these numbers -- 767,795 euros, 184,590 euros, 57,199 pounds, 92,761 dollars, 20,000 Swedish crowns. I'll continue now: an interesting association of foreign relations -- again nameless -- is the charity and solidarity of a place. 83 per cent of his income is from abroad. Their foreign income is zero in 2013, 281,339 in 2014, 935,273 in 2015. And a children's association... 84% of its income is from abroad. The 2014 foreign income was suddenly reduced to 374.668; 2015 dropped to 5,000 levels. But I'm not going to tell you about the Ivy League's foreign aid. Because every worker who works at Diyarbakır City Hall -- I'm telling people who talk about labor, exploitation, sweat -- has to pay 200 liras to this association, and over the years, 200 liras has been earmarked for this association.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0306par0302	Why don't you tell me how they spent it and who they helped, Mr. Secretary? And tell them who they're helping.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0304	Now, of course, those of you who just mentioned both the woman and the child, don't worry, I want to tell you something else, it's important. This could all happen, it's done, it's done, it's done by the state, no one has to worry about that. At the bottom of what Kerestecioğlu just said, I am above the head that holds law and democracy within itself. He has stopped saying the word, and I am stressing it here. But I'll tell you something else: 310 men under the age of 18 and 31 women, our daughter, they took her up the mountain. I wish you'd said that here. I'll make it clear now, M. Y, I can't tell you our daughter's name, but I can't tell you in her initials, that she was cut off, tied up, taken to a car, taken to Hakurk camp, and then to Kandil, where she was taken to education after ten days, and that she ran away for days, and that she met with her family after she had found someone to help them, and perhaps you had found her own statements on TV the other day. Let me tell you again, his name is E. A, born in 2001, 15 years old, abducted from a bus stop on his way to industrial high school, lost his life. There's maybe a dozen, hundreds of samples. Now you're coming in here with your angel faces and you're saying that we have a different understanding. (EC PARTY) Let me make this very clear -- I want to express one more painting here -- and now the children need to know that there are 11 parks in Mardin City that these people can't do, but they can't, and only in this short time -- Mr. Prime Minister is here. We follow them in the morning, in the evening, in the night, in the day, in the light of day, in the direction of which we follow. Why? Because we're all here now because our people are being abused. We in unity, we in brotherhood, we want to live in law and democracy until the end. There's more here; how people from HDP buildings were sent to Kandil. How people from BDP buildings were sent to Kandil. Look, you're the elected lawmakers there. We go to the area, all our friends go to the area, to the provinces, to the people there. I want to show you these. Do you wonder: Why did these people make their bloody march on terror in Hakkari Çukurca and Hakkari Yüksekova? Why did they go out on the street with moon-star flags and say, "That's enough! They call the terrorist organization, the PKK, those who abuse our nation, our ethnic identity. Here's their fucking march on terror. Instead of questioning us a little, why are you killing these people on the one hand instead of coming back and giving me this gene?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0307par0308	I'll turn on your microphone. Finish your words, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0310	Okay. You're turning this country into a bloodbath because it's a PKK organization, it's a TAK organization, it's an YPG. Have you ever considered asking Kandil?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0308par0312	Oh, you're the Minister, Minister. You ask, we ask?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0313	Don't think you're avoiding it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0308par0314	You're the minister.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0315	You have to tell me who they are.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0309par0316	Who sent them there?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0317	Who gave it to you? Who are they?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0309par0318	Did they go undercover?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0319	That's who they are, you'll tell me.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0309par0320	Did they go undercover? They went with the knowledge of your government.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0321	You're gonna tell me who they are.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0310par0322	There were some of your ministers in the back.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0323	Again, I want to make it clear, yes, that this is very clear and clear, and let me tell you something else here, Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to correct one thing, one mistake, at least because our political parties are making evaluations on it. It's January 1st, and there's an attack on Reina. We have all lived, and lived, and there are many among us, and you have lived many.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0311par0325	Mr. Secretary, please complete. I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0327	We've all experienced how the neighborhoods of Alevi and the Sunni neighborhoods were intertwined with 26 lottery players in Kahramanmarash. There's an incident going on in Turkey, and someone that night... We all have common value, our spirituality is our common value, our nationality is our common value, our values, our identities, our law is our common value, secularism is our common value, by exploiting these common values... Here, Ayşegül Basaş, you can see that he is innocent, that he is innocent, but let me tell you something: he is a terrorist state, one. Two: We love you too, Dawn Yayla and Bahtiyar Pathway.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0312par0328	They're the ones who killed the prosecutor.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0329	What shall I tell you, if you love your God? Who are they? The ones who slaughtered Selim Kiraz.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0313par0330	Killer lovers, they love killers, they love traitors, they love terrorists.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0331	Yes, let's not leave secularism to them, let's not leave this country's common values to them, let's not exploit them, let's not exploit them, let's not exploit them, and let's just and only go peacefully and safely to the futures of this country. Of course it's our responsibility. We accept that until the end, and at noon I told you, your ears can't hear, for him.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0314par0335	No way, you're welcome, never!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0315par0336	You're irresponsible, you have no responsibility, you have no responsibility!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0337	But I'll answer a question you asked. (AK PARTI) Don't worry, as much as Turkey is threatening to eliminate them, even if it's Kandil, but it's Sincan on the other hand, it's the honor of this group, this government, and this Assembly, we'll do what we need to do. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Even if we are, we will do it, and without us, we will do it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0315par0338	It's been the same for 40 years!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0301par0339	I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0316par0341	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0316par0343	Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0344	Mr. Secretary, while he's making his speech...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0316par0346	Congressmans, please, sir, I can't hear Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0347	... He's always made insults that target our group.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0318par0348	We're curious, Mr. President. Let's see what he has to say.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0349	I'm asking for a say in bullying.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0319par0350	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0353	Mr. President, honorable MPs and Mr. Prime Minister, if we were to ask you, how does zetytin oil come out of the water?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0319par0354	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0355	...we've seen how the olive oil comes to the surface of the water from all its statements.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0320par0357	That's right!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0321par0358	You're olive oil, you!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0359	Let me make this very clear: I can only answer Mr. Minister and Mr. Hatti's comments for at least 20 minutes. However, I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Secretary, is it possible that a single association has come in from abroad and that the association has been shut down?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0322par0361	President, silence!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0362	If so, how many sources have come from abroad? Let's appoint a trustee if it's tight. If it's too tight, then close it with a decree in accordance with the law.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0323par0364	Don't show off!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0324par0365	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir. Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0366	That's not the point, the point is, there's a conclusion from all of the Minister's speeches: legislation, execution and judgment are collected in one hand.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0323par0367	Where is the PKK now?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0368	Mr. Secretary, some of the things you've expressed, I assure you, are accusations, some are allegations.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0325par0369	100 percent is true, 100 percent is true.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0370	I'm returning the charges, the location of the allegations is the judge, Mr. Secretary, the judge is the judge, and you're not. Then the matter will be decided concerning those who are responsible.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0326par0371	You say you don't trust the judgment.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0372	Look, Mr. Prime Minister is here, Mr. Prime Minister is here, just as you have come by the will of the people, by the will of the nation, but only the will of the nation can take you. If that's the kind of legitimacy, then it's the right of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), the right of the MPs, and the mayors. It's a matter of political ethics, it's a matter of political morality.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0327par0373	We're holding our backs.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0374	What's done to me today can be done to you tomorrow.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0328par0377	Before we get involved in terrorism...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0329par0378	We know what terror you're involved in.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0379	If you oppose what has been done to me today, you will have the opportunity to oppose what has been done to you tomorrow. You guys...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0330par0380	You dug a hole, how can you be looked after?
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0317par0381	Mr. President, you know...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0331par0382	I'll turn on your microphone, give you a minute. Please complete, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0332par0384	He responded to the allegations, Mr. President!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0333par0385	Now, we're looking at the method and style used by both the minister and the witness speaking on behalf of the group. Yeah, well, for God's sake, it's the same system that the congregation used in 2009, and it was used against you on December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0334par0386	Come on, get over it.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0335par0387	He calls the terrorist organization "The Cemaat," he calls the terrorist organization "The Cemaat."
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0333par0388	The same system is being used here once again today. Mr. Secretary, the rule of law...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0336par0389	Yeah, cut the drama out!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0333par0390	You can't be both the legislature and the judiciary, it won't be called the democracy, it will be called the didictatorship.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0337par0391	Then don't be a traitor.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0333par0392	Look, once again, we don't expect you to resign...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0338par0393	What's with the resignation? You guys quit.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0333par0394	If it were Japan, I don't know if they'd commit harakiri, or if they'd commit suicide, but I don't expect it. We have the right to wait for political ethics. Why do you think you're doing it to us if you're not doing it to yourself? Why do you see someone else who doesn't like you? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My deepest regards to the lawmakers, especially to the co-captains of the prison.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0339par0398	Say something to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) or to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) or to the People's Party (PKK) or to the People's Party (PKK).
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0340par0399	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0341par0400	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0340par0401	Mr. Bostanci, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0341par0404	Mr. President, thank you. Legal proceedings on MPs have been decided by law by the courts, by prosecutors, as this issue has been referred to law after the temporary Constitution clause on immunity carried out in parliament.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0342par0406	In five counties, the courts are working for him at the same time!
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0341par0407	Otherwise, there's no question that the legislation, the administration and the judiciary are the same hand-holding and the implementation of this framework, and Mr. Baydemir knows that. In addition, practices related to mayors are carried out within the framework of the judiciary's decisions. We may not like the decisions of the judgment, and the means to object are clear. There may be political speculation here, but the main objection is the address of the legal objection itself. I'm sure they're making the necessary objections there, and the law will take care of that.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0343par0409	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0341par0411	Therefore, when we talk about separation of forces, let's not forget that the law also walks in its own direction and that these decisions have been made within the framework of legal references, however, the HDP Group has demonstrated its objections to these trials -- I am sure -- in the framework of the law. It's better not to mix them together. The law is under our control, not our command. There are debates about the law, sometimes decisions of the law are approved, presented as neutral and fair law, sometimes presented as biased law. According to the political position, legal issues can be discussed, but it's a system of justice at the end of our Turkish legal system. Any objection, any assessment, is useful in that framework.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit04spe0343par0413	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Talks on whether or not to bring up the motion to ask about Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those in favor of bringing up the motion for the gene... those in favor of the motion... are inadmissible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit05spe0343par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the People's Democratic Party Group, which are available in some commissions. I read the nominations: Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan for the free membership of the Plan and Budget Commission. All in favor...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit05spe0344par0009	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-01-03sit05spe0343par0010	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit06spe0343par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote for membership in the Peoples' Democratic Party Group in the Plan and Budget Commission was not enough. Now, I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-01-03sit07spe0343par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote for membership in the Peoples' Democratic Party Group in the Plan and Budget Commission was not enough. Now, I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. Since the third vote did not find enough decision-making, it was Wednesday (January 4th 2017) at 14 p.m. to select members of the Personal Data Protection Board and discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
