tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, today is the third anniversary of the arrival of our friend Farit Mevlüt Aslanog, who served as Malatya in the 22nd and 23rd quarter of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and as İstanbul MP in the 24th term. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a dear friend of ours in Parliament, a model politician. We can sum up his politics in two words, kindness and service. On the anniversary of her death, I remember her once again, and I wish her a place of rest. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Düzce MP Ayşe Kesiş, who asked for a family talk on Family Week. Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book commitment to the family week starting on May 15th. In order to strengthen social and human capital, in light of the ancient and fundamental truths, we need to start with family before developing new rhetoric with new truths in the spirit of time, because family is the most important bridge between man and society. The family has changed throughout history in terms of its nature and structure. The development of political and economic life over time has led to changes in the family phenomenon as a result of sociocultural changes, structure and scope. Just as with all social issues and problems, we can see that wholesale approaches to family are viewed from the same point of view as desperate and blind. The strengthening of the family and the strengthening of women, men, children, elderly individuals are not the alternative, but the defending of women and children's rights and defending the family's integrity is not the alternative, the opponent, the opponent, the opponent. Members of parliament have listened to more than 500 institutions and people during a visit to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which completed its work exactly a year ago, during 19 meetings in Ankara, 9 district visits, 2 foreign trips, and 4 countries. We can't just limit the family's problems to the causes and consequences of the divorce. Urbanisation, immigration, economic conditions, violence, addiction, the condition and conditions of the disabled and elderly family member, health, education and employment, housing policies, communication, transportation, media and so on are in the midst of family issues. Our commission's report on this framework has been shared with you. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our members of the Commission, your grand delegation, and everyone who's worked hard, especially our Parliament Speaker, Ismail Kahraman. Dear MPs, a healthy family, whatever socioeconomic structure, is a family that has balanced the balance of rights and tasks within itself. The strong family is the family with the capacity to create solutions. On the other hand, we know that large families in our country are getting smaller and smaller and the core families are growing faster. But our experts say that the core family structure in Turkey itself, regardless of its socioeconomic conditions, is the families that continue to exchange services, and that's what our experts call the attractive family network. In fact, this is the Turkish model of the director of transformation and transformation. Dear lawmakers, divorces have also declined recently, along with marriages. Dissensions on property sharing and custody in divorces have unfortunately led to conflicting and conflicting divorce processes. Unfortunately, in our country, when the party that still does not receive custody wants to establish a personal relationship with its child, the executive agency deals with its child when it is at odds with its child, and unfortunately, the practice called child execution continues. Dear lawmakers, if we're going to make a suggestion about the solution to family structure and family problems, the first thing we need to do is to provide effective and easy access to products and services that will strengthen the core family network. Family is a living system, and each family has a different structure. Clearly, we need a paradigm change, including a holistic perspective that maintains the balance of individual and family. Dear lawmakers, being a family can't just be defined through needs analysis. Being a family isn't sharing a duty ruler in a home. We can't just be a family by sharing homes, rooms, budgets, domestic duties. We need to talk about new concepts and new codes. We can't be a real family unless we want what we want for ourselves, not every marriage as a family. Without love, conversation, trust, empathy, conscience, good deed and humanity, we can't make marriages a family. With such feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation, and I sincerely congratulate our upcoming May 19th Youth and Sports Day.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Kestir. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, who wants to talk about the problems of the sick prisoners. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I have been promised to address the problems of the sick prisoners and to express their suffering. As you know, prisons are total institutions that legally destroy people's freedoms. The most obvious feature of these total institutions is that by disregarding the law, they create their own form of governance by creating their own criminal execution system. However, it is a constitutional duty to make prisons as compatible with human rights and human dignity as possible. Look, the legislation in our country guarantees that being put in prison is already a punishment and that it cannot be converted into additional punishment through different practices. Therefore, zero tolerance for torture and abuse in prisons is a legally binding political responsibility. We're getting letters from prisons all over our country about practices that undermine human dignity. When we say that the punishment is the bleeding wound of society, we now see that it's gangrene. I want to give you an example of a few prisoner letters: "Man must never lose his conscience, his mercy, because the words spoken after the coffin, the mourning of fire, and the tears that have been shed, " says a prisoner, will we ignore it? ▪ I'm blind to 79 percent. When you're torn from everything and thrown here, you feel lonely, helpless, unclaimed. I don't want to die by suicide. Says a prisoner, shall we ignore him? They told me I had throat cancer, and how to talk. I feel like I'm playing against the Grim Reaper. Says a sick prisoner, shall we not know? Look, these letters come from prisons that left behind 10 provinces, including the population of Tunceli, Bayburt, Ardahan, the Silver House, which is now the 82nd province of Turkey, with the population approaching 210k. So we can't normalize what's going on here by saying, "I didn't see, I didn't hear, I don't know." Dear Regents, we see together that in 21 different types of prisons, sufficient facilities are the number of wards and cells. If you've got a bunk bed to sleep in, if you can find a roof over your head, it's all agreed that everything's going well. In prisons, however, housing, nutrition, and hygiene conditions are getting worse and worse, and prison conditions are getting worse, while prisoners are out there shooting prisoners, their relatives, but most of the time, they're in prison. We know that many prisoners today have not been given the benefit of constitutional rights health care. It is a constitutional offense to prevent this right by saying, "We do not give privileges to any prisoners." This approach is the systematic legitimization of torture in the most obvious terms. Look, there are over 2,000 prisoners waiting to die today who have been severely ill in prisons, but have not yet been released. These people don't want forgiveness, these people want to get treated and then get punished. Unfortunately, 451 prisoners have died in the last five years because of long bureaucratic procedures, because they were unable to receive treatment at the hospital. Even so, if the doctor's arrival does not stop me from being troubled, it appears that I have been left to die. What can we say to the prisoners? In fact, the data the Department of Justice revealed alone explains the terrible painting. There are 841 prisoners today who have been deemed eligible for punishment due to his illness, but have not yet been released. I would like to remind you that in the future there will be a record of death and fire in the homes of dozens of families, and hundreds of children will be orphaned. On the other hand, the state or university hospital report is sufficient for the suspension. Let them not deceive you because it does not solve, and they show you the way to Forensic Medicine. Of course, after that, forensics isn't enough. The state hospital says they're sick, and the medical examiner says they're as solid as Turp. But that's not enough, 'cause you're gonna have to wait from here. Let's see if he poses a threat to public safety. He's trying, you're being put on hold again. Because even if you're handcuffed, even if you're sick, you can't get out of the criminal category and into patient status. Look, I repeat, it is a punishment to be deprived of freedom, and it is illegal to punish these prisoners again. It is our duty to eliminate all these negative circumstances, to show the utmost respect for human life, even if they are prisoners. I end my promise by asking you to listen to the immortal lines of Nazim Hikmet, who has been in prison for a long time.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0005par0037	I turn on your microphone, complete your words, Mr. Whitebird Illusion.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0004par0038	Nazim Hikmet says: He was watching her with an example... I salute the General Assembly with the belief that we who are alive will be able to resolve the state of the sick prisoners who have turned into funerals.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. The third unscheduled statement is from Van MP Lezgin Botan, who asked for the occasion of May 15 Kurds' Day. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0007par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my remarks, I give our regards and greetings to all our executives, especially our co-chairs, lawmakers, co-chairs, and co-chairs, who are being held hostage in prisons. Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the honorable MPs on May 15th, the Day of the Kurdish Language. I salute the General Assembly. In front of me is Hawar magazine, which was published on May 15, 1932 by the Honorable President, the linguist Celadet Badirhan, which means "scream." It was a scream that the Kurdish people had been carrying for decades. Celadet, Qedrican, Nurettin Zaza, Osman Sebri, Cegerxwin and Kamuran Bedirhan did not leave this cry on the floor; I remember them with mercy and gratitude. The first 23 was published in Latin and Arabic, and the next number was "Hawar" magazine, which was 57 by 1943, with only the Latin alphabet. The Hawar magazine has become a legacy for Kurdish for its contribution to Kurdish language. Therefore, it has been celebrated by the Kurdish people on May 15th since 2006 as the festival of Kurds. The Kurdish people paid impossible prices for their native language in this land and suffered a great deal. As a result, even during the difficult days of the 1990s, the Istanbul Kurdish Institute and the Mesopotamian Cultural Centre opened schools, Kurdi-Der schools, daycare centres, and courses that taught Kurdish in the 2000s, but they published a lot of Kurdish newspapers and magazines, but all the achievements of Kurdish society, which the Kurdish people had obtained with struggle and costs, were wiped out in one day by the KHK bully of the OHR regime. Today, trustees in Kurdistan are almost at war with Kurdish institutions. Ultra super trustees have replaced the super governors of the 1990s that were not read today. On March 9, 2000, Kurd Institute executives were invited by President Sulejman Demirel to the Çankaya Mansion, while AKP shuts down the Kurdish Institute today. That shame is more than enough for the AKP. Even in 2017, Kurdish children are still not allowed to study in their native language. No one can argue that assimilation is over in this country when that's the case. On the contrary, assimilation in the AKP period increased ten times more when the effects of technological developments and other factors were calculated. There's only nuance between yesterday and today. Before the AKP was assimilated without recognition of the Kurdish identity; today, Kurdish identity is recognised during the AKP period, but assimilation continues to fold, which is the issue. The Kurdish issue is a Kurdish problem. tekçi, assimilationist and adult mentality has been a matter of eliminating Kurdish language for decades. The AKP has done a day-to-day raw work on this issue, not taking legal and constitutional steps so far. Finally, for the sake of the presidential dreams, the Constitution has established a situation in which Kurdish people continue their constitutional denial, maintaining the monotheist spirit. You may resent it, you may even deny it, but on this bench, when someone says a few words in Kurdish or says an historical geography of Kurds, you jump out of your seats and hit the tables. Finally, while celebrating the Kurdish people's language festival, I would like to finish my words with the writing of Celadet Bedirhan, in "Hawar. " [[x]] I salute the General Assembly. (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. Botan. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to take turns making a promise to the lawmakers who are demanding a commitment by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. The youth festival, the spring festival, the rice day, the art festival, the young people's youth, the festivals they enjoy, are just a few of the events the authoritarian and oppressive Justice and Development Party has banned. All activities that you do not approve of are prohibited for funny reasons, while neither security nor the State of Emergency are no grounds for activities supported by the party's presidency and the government. At an event organised by those who think like him, we need not a youth who obeys without question, but a youth who knows why he defends. The party president, who says, shows how realistic and sincere it is that young people who know why he defends the festivals and festivals are banned. The political ruling and party president should stop pressing, banning young people who don't enjoy themselves, who don't live, and try to resolve rapidly increasing youth unemployment.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0010par0075	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it is Turkey's fourth-largest city, the airport is insufficient to serve our city. Although our country has carried out 10 per cent of exports, there are no international flights from the airport, no access to the airport is sufficient. The AKP's government, which boasts about building airports, is unable to even operate existing airports, and has failed to provide international flights for the holidays, let alone the Bursians. Scholars living in the 4th largest city expect a solution without airway transportation.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0012par0080	Mr. Yalcinkaya...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. The HEMA company, which operates in our district of Amasra, has laid off 28 miners from the GENEL MADEN-HIS Union, which has worked underground for three to nine years. This company, which has come to the region to dig coal, has been operating in the region for 12 years, has not fulfilled its commitments to the state. He's constantly lying that he's going to make coal out of illegality, distractions and deception, and he's raising workers where he's going to dig coal. The government, which is mobilising to solve every problem of the company, is watching the victims of workers. The Ministry of Labor must do the work necessary to extradite miners who have been wrongfully laid off, and stop the company's arbitrary practices as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0012par0084	Dear Man...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Our recent experiences with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, the founder of our independence and freedom. Some lunatics seem to have taken it upon themselves to insult him, and it goes on in a methodical fashion. And what's even more thought-finding is, where do these people and who do they get their strength from? We also think it makes a great deal of sense that some ill-conceived, insulting historians in their magazines and programs are constantly being hosted by AKP municipalities. But let's not forget that in our nation's heart, the love of Ataturk and its thoughts, the goal of modern civilization, no one will be able to remove it and damage it, thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr. Man. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0015par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the political power wants the coupkers who fled to Greece back, but why doesn't Greece want the islands occupied? Question two: In Turkey, people do not feel safe. This is the greatest torture of all. There's no safety of life, no security of property, no law, no freedom of law, no freedom of the press, no access to the judiciary, no impartial and independent judiciary, the rights violations are at an extreme stage. Where there's no law, there's chaos. Our citizens who have been expelled under the decree of the law are not employed, they are driven to hunger, they cannot be treated if they have no money. As long as there are no convictions, people, everyone is innocent. This social government principle is being violated. People are starving, and if that's the case, it's buttering the bread of terrorist organizations. When will political power give it up? Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Ahmet Arslan is that an arrangement has been made as of May 1st about the best unfair use quota facing internet subscribers, but it hasn't been properly lived, it hasn't. Internet service providers are now uncertain because of companies' disregard for regulation and greed. Some companies are claimed to charge for every gigabyte ($1.2) used after the fair use quota, while others deny it. The companies continue to rob consumers. When will you find a solution to this unlawful situation as a state? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. It is shameful, shameful, inhuman, for some who call themselves historians, to make insults against Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in television and newspapers. There is no doubt that political power's insensitivity is at large in the spread of treason against the republic established by Ataturk and his friends -- while he is taking advantage of all the blessings of the republic. Those of the Turkish people who think they're going to cut off the love of the Great Leader must remember that no one can afford it. To show our devotion to the ancient ways, to the lies, to the Ataturk, never be afraid to speak the truth, under any circumstances. I believe that on May 19th, both our young people and all our people will give the best answer to the bigots and their slanders.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0020par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. At the meeting of the production reform package held in Ankara, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr Faruk Özlü announced eight provinces that would be included in the Ministry's duties, including loans for the ownership of administrative and social facility buildings outside the city, which would benefit from the accession of nearly all infrastructure and overstructure investments, including architecture and engineering services. Again, there is no Sivas among these provinces. Oh, this wasn't a surprise to us, for Sivas, and we've offered them many times to take them to the attraction centers, but they've always ignored Sivas, and now they haven't included industrial sites in the incentive package. I'm calling to Mr. Secretary, get Sivasbook to join the cities in the production reform package as soon as possible. As Sivas, we're tired of being treated like stepchildren in your time of power. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0021par0111	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. In our province of Balıkesir, there has been serious pollution in recent years. They are led by the Tea of the Heart, the Tea of Silence, and the Tea of Haven. I'm asking the Minister: Why don't you do a study on the Heart Tea that was used in agricultural irrigation? What damage do heavy metal and other chemical wastes found in tea have to do to human health? Why don't you clean up the previously detected pollution in the Silence and Havran Teas? Do you know that there are serious problems in agricultural products, primarily rice and tomatoes, related to chemical waste? Why don't you take precautions against this environmental disaster that has contaminated the Sea of Marmara? When will you consider public health as a government? The people of Balıkesir are looking for an immediate solution. Do you have a project on this?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0021par0115	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The District of Defne, Hatay Province, is the 3rd largest district of our province and has a population of 143,176. There is still no state hospital in our town of Defne, which has this population density. Our constitution ▪ Everyone has a healthy and balanced environment. We demand a state hospital in our Defne district. Are you going to build a state hospital in our Defne county? Will the 250-bed Fourways State Hospital Project be implemented when it turns into a snake story? Where is Project Arrogant State Hospital at? Where are the 50-units Alexander's Mouth and Dental Health Center, 24-unit Brokenmouth and Dental Health Projects? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0024par0120	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Justice is the foundation of property. It is one of God's names. Allah has created all things in due proportion. It is imperative that we not transgress the measure, nor act justly, but our humanity requires it. Justice is born from truth and happiness from justice. It is possible for a state to continue and stay with justice. He said so. The worship of Abibin shall reform the soul, the justice of the just, the world, but the judge shall be judged where he is acquitted. Forgiveness of the wrong-doers is a punishment for the wrong-doers. There's no justice if there is one. Justice is good, but it's better with managers. Don't live in a lawless and undoctored land. They say. Anyone who judges someone will be judged himself sooner or later. The greatest judgment is the judgment of Hakk and the people, which weigh heavy and thin.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0026par0126	Mr. President, Adıyaman, former chief prosecutor of the Republic, Faruk Büyük kayuklu, who was arrested on charges of being a member, admitted in his statement in court that the person who made him the attorney general today was Sadi Güven, the unsealed head of the YSK. What contradiction is there that 106,117 people have been expelled from the public since September 2016, while Faruk Büyükkaramuklu has been expelled without any evidence, despite this important confession -- that Sadi Güven is still on duty? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0024par0128	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0027par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Residents of the Bünyan Akmescit neighbourhood want to connect to Talas district in hopes that they will receive better services for years. Thus, the demand of Akmescits, who held a referendum in 2004, was ignored. The residents of Akmescit, who were also shut down by the All-city Law and the municipalities, held a referendum again last weekend, not without a code, not without a seal, but a formal referendum. As a result of the referendum, 732 of our citizens said, "Let's stay in Bünyan. Let's stay in the province of Talas." 11 votes were invalid. I call to power from here: Bring to life the national will that you have not dropped from your tongue, and work quickly to bind them to Talas, respecting the will of my Akmescit citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0028par0134	Mr. Cantaloupe...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. President, thank you. In the past few days, a health protocol was signed between Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman and Dumlupınar University's rehabilitation hospital. I just want to say that this will provide an important need. On this occasion, our Kütahya is an important city with thermals of culture, art, history. Our new hospital here is on a hot spring, and they have important and therapeutic pools. It also addresses different treatments and groups of patients in terms of their qualifications. One of them is heart disease and lung disease. It is possible for people who are surgically ill with heart and lung disease to exercise and be rehabilitated with chronic problems. It also provides all of our citizens with the most important resources for any other functional illness that requires healing. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0030par0140	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0031par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. We are sad in the 3rd year of losing our member of the Plan and Budget Commission and our highly valued spokesman, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, our MP for the 24th term of Malatya and 23nd term. We ask God for mercy. We have learned much from him in the 24th term of the Plan and Budget Commission, and we remember him with gratitude and respect. We offer our condolences to his family, his relatives, his loved ones. And thank you very much for your magnificence. Thank you so much for reminding me of him here today and for reminding me of him. I wish his family, relatives and Malatian voters, Istanbul voters health, happiness, and good times. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0032par0146	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0033par0149	Mr. President, it is very important for the safety of our country to increase control of the tours, especially due to increased travel in the summer months. My hand on the road to Mudla last Saturday is the responsibility of our citizens who died in the accident. Is the vehicle mentioned registered to TURSAB? According to the press, how did the crash vehicle go through the examination when the brake system was broken? Is this vehicle under inspection at three checkpoints up to the crash site? In the fact that hundreds of vehicles are scheduled for daily tours every day, inspections at checkpoints will prevent other accidents that can be avoided. Even though it's been two days, have other tour vehicles been inspected? Unfortunately, controls in our country are only increased after accidents. Still, every precaution would be a precaution to keep our lives from getting hurt any longer. May God have mercy on our dying citizens, and speedy healing for the wounded. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0034par0152	Thank you, Mr. Oz. One minute of conversation is over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. First words, Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0035par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. May 15th is a reminder of one of the Turkish nation's major steps towards independence and salvation. On May 15, 1919, journalist Hasan Tahsin fired the first bullet in the face of the Greek occupation and became a martyr. In those days, when the Turkish nation wanted to drown in its own homeland, the bullets fired not only in Izmir (Izmir) but all over the country were also the flares of the Salvation War (BiH) and of the national will, the shepherd's fire. At Hatay Fourways, Sergeant Kara Mehmet, Hasan Tahsin in İzmir, Ali Çetinkaya in Ayvalıklık, and his soldiers, Payedye Kuvayimilliceçi, bravely marched on fire and occupation, became leaders of the Turkish nation's blessed journey towards independence. On the anniversary of his testimony, we kindly and gratefully remember the saints of the Battle of Salvation, especially Hasan Tahsin. Today is also another important day in the Turkish nation's struggle for salvation. On 16 May 1919, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and 22 other heroes were anchored from the Galata docks and began their fight for freedom with Bandırma Vapuru. On this journey, the Turkish nation's desire for sovereignty was first delivered to Samsun, from there to all Anatolia, to the country's land. The spring air from the Black Sea has brought light to the dark night in Anatolia. Three days after Mustafa Kemal Pasha set foot in Samsun, his report made by Hasan Tahsin.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0036par0163	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0035par0164	...Ali Cetinkaya and his soldiers have drawn in the direction of the first bullets of the Paying Kuvaimilli. In a nutshell, it has been made very clear that the Turkish nation does not tolerate foreign manda and control, and that the nation accepts the basis of national domination. On this occasion, I remember with mercy and gratitude all the heroes of the national struggle, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who had taken this journey of salvation to Samsun. Mr. President, dear MPs, we are also a dear member of parliament today, and in honor of the anniversary of the death of the late Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who we have been working with on the commission and the General Assembly for many years, I commemorate Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu again and rest his soul. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0037par0168	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0038par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 194th day of the arrest of our Co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. I'd like to report to the council. Today is also the first month of the April 16 referendum. Our people have been expressing from day one that this referendum is not legitimate, the process of referendum and the legality of the referendum. Today, when we are no longer able to speak of an impartial and independent judiciary and the judiciary is completely under siege, today is the day that this referendum will again bring the election of seven members of the HSK to parliament and vote. This vote is never acceptable to us. As if the trial had not become political enough, today's vote will announce that the judiciary is entirely under the AKP's control. That was one of the main goals of the Constitutional Proposal. We say that this vote is of no value to us and to citizens in the referendum, and that we will continue to say no to the politicalisation of the judiciary. Again, Mr. President, one of the points where the trial is over is yesterday's republic. com. Tr was the arrest of editor-in-chief Oğuz Güven. Also, Oğuz Güven has been arrested for an entry that was removed about fifty-five seconds later. So worst-case scenario, a false statement was used. He was arrested on charges of crimes, criminal charges, for a crime that could be criticised by the term "tweet." This shows the state of freedom of expression and press in our country.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0039par0177	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0038par0178	But it also shows the state of the judiciary, because the judges who read that decision may not have been able to face our lawyer friends, but by looking at the faces of Oğuz Trust, they came out of there straight up. I'm afraid that's all we've got. We see the consequences of closing the way of seeking judgment and justice for people in Kemal Gün. He is on hunger strike and wants his son's funeral. In the same way, I want my job back. Now the power needs to hear their voices because it's not enough for us to hear them, and if we lose these people, there will be a very deep wound for Turkey's future, and in this deep wound, the biggest finger will be your power. Once again, we ask them not to take it upon themselves. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0040par0181	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0041par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. As you remember, in the 22nd-23rd-century Malatya, 24th-century İstanbul MP, model politician, human, homeland, flag and Ataturk lover, the most hardworking, honest, moral politician I have ever known, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, we remember the Republican People's Party as the Grand National Assembly Group in the 3rd year of his death. On the other hand, I wish God's mercy to all our martyrs of the Battle of Salvation in the person of Hasan Tahsin, who fired the first flare of our Salvation War. Our debt of heart and gratitude and loyalty will never end. Mr. President, on the other hand, we consider the arrest of Cumhuriyet daily's editor-in-chief, Oğuz Güven. Having a courthouse somewhere is one of the most concrete, beautiful examples that doesn't mean there's justice there. Besides, when it's considered that a criminal who deliberately and deliberately tried to kill the vice president of the main opposition party was released yesterday by firing bullets, it means that in this country, to go to jail, the journalist must be the one who shoots the politician to get out.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0042par0189	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0041par0190	We can't possibly accept that. It's a new and simple example of the judgment turning the ruling party into a stick. We're protesting violently. On the other hand, all of Turkey is insane and ungrateful, defaming Ataturk (Ataturk) and insulting and insulting. The question is, where did they get the nerve? Unfortunately, I also have to stress that some of the ruling party's practices on this subject have set the stage for such actions. In a moment, the ruling party's deputy group president will speak. Of course, I'm sure he'll express his contempt for these attacks, these insults. It's a party for power that doesn't give these lunatics this atmosphere. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0043par0193	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0044par0196	Mr. President, thank you. The consciousness of history presents a state of understanding for societies as to how to proceed. So history isn't an event that's ended in the past, but it's actually a process that is constantly remembered and creates collective memory and sets the course for societies. We need to remember history correctly and consistently, see it as a light for the future. The date we're in on may 16 is one of the key links in the chain of events that has been very important to us recently. On 15 May 1919, Izmir was invaded, and thus became open to the desires and ambitions of the post-Mandros Investigation forces, and it was finally launched on 15 May with the invasion of Izmir. We know that the Law-enforcement Leagues in Anatolia and Rumeli have been responsible for this invasion, but it would not have been possible for these communities to produce collective will alone. On May 16th, 9th. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, appointed military inspector, rose to Samsun on May 19 and organized the will to fight this national war in Anatolia and Rumeli, and opened the way for the construction of a new nation to be built under a new state. In that sense, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all of his friends who fought with him, who were the main pillars of the Republic of Turkey, each one of whom we saw as a flagpole.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0045par0200	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0044par0201	I'd also like to stress that reading history correctly and consistently is also a moral responsibility to society as we address it with mercy and gratitude on this occasion, as we go through this process. In this frame, we have once again rejected a number of strange people's statements and delusions, which are based on rumors of their own, and I hereby declare that we have rejected them once again. On the other hand, on the 3rd anniversary of the death of Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who served as Republican People's Party MP during the 22s, 23, 24th period, we also remember him with mercy. One end of politics was competition and conflict, and the other was agreement and compromise.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0045par0204	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0044par0205	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu, in that sense, has given us all the best representations of the treaty and compromise in the House. So I wanted to remember him once again with mercy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0046par0208	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I strongly condemn the attacks on Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. After a falling empire, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a leader and leader of the Republic of Turkey. I strongly condemn these attacks against him. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Following the resignation of İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoglu representing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKPM), Ankara MP Zühal Topcu's membership was approved in accordance with Article 12 of Article 3620 on the Dissolution of Foreign Relations of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. It's for the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the farmers' problems and to determine the necessary measures for the solution proposals, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research on the Constitution's 98th Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 104, and 105. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Sakarya]] 10) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzurum]] 13) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 17) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] 20) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] Agriculture is a strategic and sensitive sector that is vital to all countries regardless of the level of development. Among its significant contributions to national income, it is often the most important source of sustaining life as well as agricultural products, which are the producers of the lowest income in society. Agricultural production in Turkey is 80 per cent of agricultural land due to rain, with a population of 26.3 million hectares of 77.9 million hectares of land. The drought is a natural climate event that can occur anywhere at any time, at any time, with rain less than its average for many years. The drought, one of the biggest problems on the global scale we face today, affects every step of our life, including physical and natural environment, urban life, development and economics, technology, agriculture and food, clean water and health. Agriculture technology is one of the main problems of agricultural production, even in advanced countries. Turkey is part of a half-dry generation, where drought is a constant threat to the world. In times past, drought has at times caused great damage to our country. It is estimated that our country's risk group is among the countries in terms of the potential effects of global warming, especially in the future, and our Mediterranean and Internal Anatolian regions will be more affected by climate change. It is possible to reduce the negative effects of agricultural drought by taking measures before the drought, and with accurate planning during the time of drought. Therefore, the measures and steps to take during the period before the drought must be planned separately. We can't afford to increase water supply by sustaining the rains, but we can reduce the negative effects from the drought. The most important problem of our country's agriculture is the solution to the problem of fragmented land. Country agriculture must be planned in a healthy manner. One of the farmer's most important problems is the cost. From seeds to medicines and fertilizers, every entry in the production process to mazota is above the product entries used by international competitors. Therefore, necessary measures must be taken to reduce input costs. Instead of unfair models, such as direct support for the farmer's support, production-based support and production-based support should be supported. The right management of water must be provided for the farmer's best and most efficient use of water. In terms of territorial rehabilitation, erosion control and drainage management, authorities must have active support and contribution. The meteorological data must be forwarded to the farmer as quickly as possible. The farmer is unable to obtain any information from agricultural research agencies or universities. Therefore, the information system, which the farmer can easily access, must be established and the university must be somehow reduced to the field. Organised agricultural areas must be fully implemented. The public-owned agricultural areas must be given to the farmer by means of rentals after the infrastructure is prepared. The farmer must be weighed down by training programmes that will create environmental sensitivity and health awareness. He needs to be aware of the effects of medicine and fertilizer on the environment and on human health. A new cooperative style organisation model is needed for the farmer to provide technical information, to develop co-operation opportunities for production and marketing, to create social policies. There must be ways of implementing packaging and storage facilities, which will specialize in the sale of products produced by the farmer, which can serve within the rules of the free market economy, which will be governed by professionals, which the farmer is a partner in. As a result, we propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate the problems of farmers in our country and to determine the solution proposals and to take the necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Constitution's 98th and Internal Charter, 104, 105, shall be issued under the provisions of Articles 104 and 105, in accordance with the investigation of those who neglected and flaw in the events of our country's eastern and southeast regions and in some of our provinces. 25/12/2015 [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 4) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Erzurum]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 14) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] 21) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] We learn that in some parts of our country, in our provinces, especially in our eastern and Southeast regions, curfews are imposed almost every day. When terrorists move into cities like this, in building cell homes, especially in large places, they become weapons and explosives warehouses, in some of our provinces, the building of terrorist graves should be determined by public officials who contribute to building terrorist busts, ignoring and neglect of PKK camps. In the past, members of the organisation have been difficult to hide in rural areas, caves, providing food and vital materials, while the organisation has now become the legitimate representative of the Kurdish people, and the PKK has been accepted and negotiated. Even state-owned figures have been developed, and the organisation has been able to use public institutions, equipment and personnel of the state. PKK's terrorist organization has settled in cities. In some areas, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been seen using public officials' equipment to dig ditchs and barricades in the provinces and districts and not bring security forces into the street. It's been determined that they control the area and check IDs for our passersby citizens. The local shopkeepers were unable to open their shops, and those who opened them suffered financial loss. The people of the region were deceived and fell into the fire as they waited for peaceful days. The public was caught off guard. Schools in the region have been vacationed due to terrorism, and teachers have been sent home on the grounds of service training. Students have failed to attend schools and have been deprived of their right to education. The PKK has damaged schools' physical structures using schools as shelters. With the PKK gaining power in the region, it has become institutional in its supply of personnel and its integration into the organisation. They've tried the terrorists and cleared them by court at Habur Border Gate. People from outside the border have been officially registered as separatists and have been documented as terrorists. On these grounds, the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on what needs to be done to those with negligence and flaws will provide irrefutable benefits for our country and for the social, cultural, historical and economic benefit of our local people. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98th and Interior Charter (the Constitution) concerning those who neglected the martyrship of Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who was martyred within the campus of Ege University. 14/12/2015 [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 4) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Sakarya]] [[Erzurum]] [[Scholarship]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 14) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] 21) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] As a result of a week-long incident inside the Aegean University campus, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu and his friends have reported that they cannot go to school because they cannot go to the district police department, the school administration and the school's security guards. As a result, police, school administration and school security officers have indicated that they should enter the school, saying that the necessary measures have been taken. Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who came to his school with his friends on 20/2/2015, was attacked by the PKK terrorist organization sympathizer students with stones, sticks and knives. Although tensions at the University of the Aegean have been going on for a week, why didn't the police take precautions before one person died and one person was seriously injured? If the police have taken precautions, how did students with lines and knives get into the university campus? As a result of this attack, he was stabbed to death by Nurullah Semo, formerly known as a member of the PKK terrorist organization. Do you think it was the negligence of security officers regarding the martyrdom of Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu? What's been done about them? Although the hospital was 15 minutes from the scene, terrorists dressed as students stopped the ambulance from arriving at the scene, and the ambulance arrived too late. Has an investigation been launched into the person or persons involved in the murder of Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu on purpose? The education and teaching centre and the various universities of our future generations, which should serve both physically and mentally, have been equipped with the posters of the separatist and the terror organization's rags, while the terrorists who have done so have been found to be not all of the students who have been studying here, especially nationalist students. Despite the obvious negligence of the security forces, it has not been investigated. Is it going to be under investigation from now on? As governorship, police, university administration and university security, why have you been asked to do so, although you have already been asked about the safety of students? On these grounds that we have explained above, the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on negligence and what needs to be done about those with flaws will provide irrefutable benefits. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On December 24, 2016, we propose and propose the opening of a geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey (TBM) Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution of Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ, whose written test has been held on December 24, 2016, as well as the results of the judicial judge's and prosecutor's candidacy examinations. Engin Altay Levent Sky Free Special CHP Group Deputy Chair CHP Deputy Chair CHP CHP Deputy Chair In 2016, there were announcements made over the year about the examination of the judicial judge and prosecutor's candidate from the law's profession regarding the adoption of an administrative judge candidate, the number of candidates to be taken and the date of the examination has been changed. The written quiz was held on 24 December 2016 and the results were announced on 18 January 2017. However, before the results of the written examinations were announced, Section 680, published in the January 6, 2016, changed in the form of examinations with Articles 6 and 8 of the State of the Law. "Only those who have succeeded will be called to the interview if the success rate is less than twice as much as the announced staff, under a 70-point requirement for written examinations under Article 9/A of the Law on Judges and Prosecutors' Law 2802. It has also been envisioned that the temporary clause added to the law should not be sought for 70 points, as well as those who have taken the written test before this arrangement is in effect and the outcome is unexplained. In Article 9/A of Law No. 2802, the minimum arithmetic average of members from 100 full points to be considered successful in the interview exam has not been changed, it has not been changed, it has not been preserved. Thirteen days after the written test took place on December 24th, the removal of the 70 per cent achievement points predicted for written exams before the test results were announced shows an arrangement to influence the results. Thus, the impact of the interview has been absolute, given the need for competency in candidates. Although 70 points for the written test have been lifted, 70 points have not been lifted for the interview exam, the political government's purpose is clear. An extraordinary state of mind has been established in the December 24th exam as the legal basis for the replacement of information to the torpedo. The state of emergency declared for Turkey's beka has been used to set the stage for partying for the judge's exams. This provides sufficient reason to make the trials questionable, even by itself, without any other reason. The independence and judicial guarantee of the courts, which are essential elements of the legal state, has been constitutionally guaranteed. The principles envisioned for the profession of judge and prosecutor must surely be observed during the occupation. Documents related to the United Nations and the Council of Europe also included principles regarding the judges' elections, stressing that these elections must be met by independent governing bodies. However, with the removal of 70 points on the written test, the adoption of the judicial profession has been fully handed over to execution. The discovery of most of the candidates who won the examination along with their relationship with AKP organisations or their executives reveals unquestionably that the examinations were partisan. Given the principle that judges who enter the elections on behalf of any party in our position cannot return to their posts, these tests show that the actual period of party judges has been initiated. As a result, international documents and universal principles have increased the impact of the interview exam, subjective evaluations and open examination of partisanism, contrary to constitutional principles. After the examination took place, the test rule with the KHK was changed and the interview itself was decided. For reasons above, it has come to be necessary to submit a motion for a generic motion against Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ, who acts in partisan order to put the judiciary in his own ideological frames and design it in accordance with his political interests. It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council or group proposal, covering the day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be taken into consideration, will later be submitted to your approval. If the proposal is not submitted, the last day of the constitutional term will be brought to the agenda by the President. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 16/5/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 10 May 2017, Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez issued 4524 rows, the Scorpion-type armored car carried out by police in the district of Silopi of Şırnak province on May 4, 2017 caused the death of seven-year-old Muhammad and six-year-old Furkan Yıldırım brothers who slept in the house, and suggested that the motion for parliamentary investigation given to the Turkish Parliament to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly in order to be identified and illuminated. I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who are demanding a statement on the People's Democratic Party group proposal. The first speaker is Aycan İrmez, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0047par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I go over the motion, I'd like to make a few points here. While our first co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ and other friends, who are members of this Parliament, are hundreds of thousands or even millions of game representatives, are supposed to be here with us, unfortunately, they are now being held illegally hostage in prison and their representations are also illegally reduced. Turkey has shown these unlawfulities that will be a black mark on the history of democracy, which the ruling owners want to purge our party from democratic politics. I'd like to say that this decision has been ruled out for us, and I'd like to point out. Also on the 68th day of the hunger strike, we welcome our fellow academics, Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça, to say once again that we are with their resistance. I'd also like to remind you of Kemal Gün, who has been on hunger strike for eighty-two days today to receive his child's funeral and to bury it. Unfortunately, we have a political mind and a power that has taken away the right to bury his child's funeral. Bünyamin Aydoğan, a teacher who was fired with the KHK, died in a work accident at his construction site. These examples, unfortunately, and many more, are an indication of how human life, labor, human values are being put underfoot in this country. The deaths that political power claims and calls them "destiny" are murder. The motion I promised to discuss here today shows that children in this country, not playing in the street, not even sleeping in their beds, could be killed anywhere at any time. Honorable MPs, Muhammad, 7 years old and Furkan Yıldırım, who slept in their living room around 12.30 p.m., were brutally killed by the break-in of their homes by breaking down the walls of a police officer whose name was undisclosed and persistently kept. We see that this brutal murder has been meticulously veiled by political, property and administrative commanders. Despite our best efforts, the lack of an enlightening response to the public proves our point of view. Dear lawmakers, the house where the murder took place is in a narrow dead end. We don't know why there's a police armored car on this street that's on patrol, and the speed it's supposed to be is on the ground. We don't know who or who gave this order to the cops who broke down the wall of the house and ran over Muhammad and Furkan. Panzer was pulled off the scene before the prosecutor arrived. We don't know who ordered the Panzer to pull out of the scene and black out the evidence. The police are alleged to have been arrested, who destroyed the wall and killed two little brothers. We don't even know who this cop is, if he has a name, if he's actually been arrested. If this cop was arrested, why was he arrested five days later? We don't know if this cop has the authority to use the Panzer. We don't even know who's pointing a gun at a mother in a hospital who's lost two children, who wants to see her children's funeral, by what authority and by what order. Who enters his house at night, kills his two sleeping children, and then doesn't even show their funerals? We don't know what dark power this mindset takes orders from. We don't know. We don't know what we're talking about. In fact, the people responsible for this terrible event, this human tragedy, are sitting here. First, they brought these perpetrators a prize for punishment, then a suit of legal protection, and they made the biggest injustice possible. Judgement should start with those who bring injustice to this level. Those who sit on the thrones of power and protect the slaughter of our children by law, those who watch over them should know that they bear the burden of these atrocities. Dear lawmakers, normally, in a country where this murder took place, those responsible should be found in the most immediate manner, there should be resignations, severe measures to be taken, and eventually statements to ease the public conscience, but in this so-called democratic country, there is an effort to normalise this brutal murder. In his initial assessment of the murder, the governor of Şırnak tried to normalize the brutal slaughter of two brothers in their sleep. The governor's office tried to protect the perpetrator by concealing his identity, even hiding the Panzer, and he was involved in the murder. On the night of May 4th, around 12:30 p.m., the governor's office felt the need to make a statement nearly 24 hours later and not even make an enlightening public statement, but it made us very sad. Following the statement, the allegations that the driver of some media and social media police officer was drunk do not reflect the truth. He used his statements to pursue the claim that the police were drunk, not those who committed this violence. This statement of a city's top property manager, Muhammad, and the six-year-old Furkan Yıldırım, about the perpetrator who brutally killed them in their sleep, has shown that the perpetrators were primarily encouraged and protected by whom. This tragic event in Silvio is not the first time. Only between 2014 and 2016, 116 children have died in the last three years. I'd like to remind you of two murders that have happened again in the provinces of Şırnak province, which have not been over for a year. On June 7, 2016, Bünyamin Bajram, a 6-year-old in Alibey neighbourhood of Cizre, and Hakan Sazak, 5 years old, were killed in the shooting of an armored car while playing in the street in Noah's neighbourhood on October 24, 2016. Bünyamin Bayram, Hakan Sazak, Nihat Kazanhan, Ceylan Önkol, Berkin Elvan, Baran Çağlı and dozens of other children were not carried out on the basis of justice by the legal and administrative process today, again, unfortunately, we witnessed the murder of two small children. All these murders were covered up by the accident. Each time, the responsible were covered up, protected, and cleared. The government didn't move a muscle for Nihat Kazanhan, who was executed in Cizre. There has been no fair trial, no punishment, and even those responsible have yet to be found. Do you remember the Panzers killing by crossing the speed limit, the infants who died by sniper's bullet during curfews, the Cemile Arakga, Ceylan Önkol, Enes Ata., Mehmet Uytun, Mehmet Uytun? All these children were slaughtered during your reign. You're in charge, and you're in charge. Those who think that all these atrocities, injustices, unconscionableness, persecutions, will not be accounted for, are in grave error, for those who think they will last to the end of these unaccounted times. Finally, we hope that these perpetrators and those responsible for the murder of the brothers Muhammad and Furkan Yıldırım will be found immediately, with urgency and with all the details of the incident, that these events have been in the region for the past two years -- unfortunately, for the past two years -- for all parties, together, to be discovered by the motion of investigation -- especially for the appearance of these perpetrators, and for the next time, to ensure that children's deaths will not be carried out in particular.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0048par0449	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. İrmez, and finish your words.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0047par0450	Thank you, Mr. President. In no way, I wish to make it clear to you once again that these police officers, who have not even taken human rights, who have made them worthless, who have killed these children in our future, will be brought to justice and tried in some way, so that all parties, all Regents, can carry out this situation, not all of us are truly under the burden. After all, you are here today representing this whole country and them. We hope that this will be a little bit more sensitive and that it will happen in accordance with our request, and we demand that our motion to investigate be accepted and passed through the House immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0049par0454	Thank you, Mr. Irmez. Mr. İrmez, I sincerely wish that both Muhammad Yıldırım and his brother Furkan Yıldırım, the age of 7 who were mentioned in your proposal as well as in your speech, be enlightened by the incident that led to the deaths of his 6-year-old brother Furkan Yıldırım. I ask for God's mercy on both our children, and for patience and condolences on their families and relatives. Abdullah Ağralı is an MP of the People's Democratic Party Group against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akralı.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0050par0464	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). I hereby salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, in the case of the proposed incident, at around 00:30 p.m. on 4/5/2017 a.m., when an armored Panzer, a staff member of our political party, was on guard duty in front of the county building, was about to maneuver, our children, Muhammad Yıldırım and Furkan Yıldırım, who were in residence when the vehicle lost power due to a technical malfunction and lost steering control, lost their lives due to the loss of their power. First, after the incident, I'd like to share with you the statement that our Şırnak Governor shares with the public. The statement issued by Şırnak Governor's Office: The death of two of our children was deeply shaken and deeply shaken by the impact of a police vehicle on the wall of our citizen's house on May 4, 2017. The allegations that the driver's police officer was drunk in some media and social media do not reflect the truth. Driver, the police officer's breath control and blood tests show no alcohol. The issue is being investigated in every way, forensic and administratively, and the investigation continues with full precision. The police officer involved in this grave event is now under arrest. The event is very versatile and very serious. Once again, we share the pain of our family. On behalf of the family, I offer my condolences to the father, Mesut Yıldırım Bey. A police officer who was involved in both administrative and judicial investigation into the incident has been arrested and is still under arrest. Again, at the same address, a civilian vehicle lost control in 2014 and caused another similar incident, and our children who died in the accident were also injured in that incident, and unfortunately they lost their lives in this incident. Once again, I personally became a follower of the incident, and I spoke to the hospital authorities because I was a physician myself. In all examinations, there was no indication of alcohol, or even alcohol in the blood ethanol test. Again, with the participation of all political parties -- including HDP, I believe -- a delegation will start reviewing the People's Rights Commission next week. Again, in the HDP motion, I don't really think it's right to do politics on this particularly painful event because nothing can bring these children back. I'm one of those people who's going through this pain. I feel that we should be humane here, that we should share the family's pain and give them all kinds of material, spiritual support. In particular, there are some issues mentioned in the motion that I find very uncomfortable when I actually read them. In particular, in the motion, I was amazed at the claim that what happened in our Eastern and Southeast regions caused the death of mines, bombs, and that the perpetrators of these deaths were law enforcement forces. I'm really inviting you to have a little compassion here. I want these allegations to ask themselves where they stand in this trench and pit politics. What is the reason for what happened in the east and southeast, the houses that were destroyed by a ditch and a bomb? If the perp's wanted, this ditch and pit should be looked at by supporters of politics. It's just, maybe it'll be enough to turn around and look in the mirror. Despite all this trauma, our citizens appreciate all the sacrifices made to prevent our security forces and civilians from being harmed. Our citizens feel the pain of our martyrs in their hearts so that civilians don't get hurt, giving our security forces and state all kinds of support. Again, on these occasions, I would like to remind you of the silences of young girls, who make politics with the honor of children who lost their lives, take them up to the mountains, dig them up, give them a ditch, give them a Kaleshnikov, and make life miserable under the guise of self-management, take them up the mountain and rape them. As usual, the HDP has made something as a tool for its political goals, rather than to share people's pain and grief, rather than to support the wounded. I condemn this injustice and insensitivity. I hereby declare that we are against this motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0051par0478	Thank you, Mr. Akrali.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0052par0479	You didn't surprise us!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0053par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0051par0481	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0053par0482	Mr. Orator made a few remarks to our group. If you want me to express...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0051par0483	Give me an example.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0053par0484	Sure. ▪ Politics over the deaths of children, he said.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0054par0485	If you had the kids that were crushed by that panzer...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0053par0486	I invite him to be merciful. He said, "Just turn around and look in the mirror."
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0055par0487	Enough, enough samples.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0054par0488	You have no conscience at all, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0055par0489	You want to talk about bullying, don't you?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0056par0490	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0055par0491	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0057par0492	You take everything and twist it and tie it to where, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0055par0493	I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0058par0496	Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking about the death of two children. We don't want to do politics over the deaths of children, we want to be held accountable for those who kill children. No one has ever been questioned or answered for the killing of children or the killing of elders. Your answers aren't the answers to this case. You go back and forth and say the same things, and you come back to the trenches, and you tell them this, and you tell them this again. A Panzer broke into the children's home sleeping at night. A conscience, a mercy! In contrast, not everyone in this Parliament is really safe either. This could have been our child. No matter who has children, we are lawmakers in this parliament. He should support the establishment of this research commission; this is the way it should be. Which mirror will we look in? What mirror have you looked in in your power for 15 years? Have you ever really had a mirror? Did you go to Suruç and share pain? The Ankara Gar massacre happened right under your nose, and you're talking about sharing pain with us. We can't account for the pain we've shared for two years, the pain we've suffered, but it's not just about our own pain, no matter who it is. We're also saying that we'd like to get up today and account for the cutting of the disability pensions of the children who were tried and had nothing to do with us, who I showed his photo to here on the day of the disabled. If this is Parliament, this place has to protect the children. And we have to be their voices because their voices aren't free enough, I'm afraid. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0059par0503	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Zeynel Emre, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0060par0510	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding a motion by the People's Democratic Party to investigate. I hereby salute the General Assembly. On the night of May 4, 2017, an armored car destroyed the wall of a house and killed two brothers who slept in their bed. In Turkey, unfortunately, it is perhaps the worst time for our children. We see that our children are under sexual assault in unsupervised dorms. We're going through a period where child laborers are run and killed illegally. We see them die of poverty, poverty. We know that we have children who died of accidental bullets in their fingernails. We also see children who come from neighboring countries and lose their lives like a baby, Aylan Kurdi. Added to all that, the children who were killed in a Panzer while sleeping in their bed. So, what do we do as legislators, guys? There's execution, the government knows the best of everything; there's judgment, there's independent judgment anyway, so let's just say we don't get involved. Dear friends, then why do we need legislature members? What are we gonna do here? Empathy first. Today, let us put ourselves in the place of Muhammad and Furkan Yıldırım's family. This family could be watching us right now, how would it feel with the rejection of this research motion? I assure you, my friends, he will have no confidence in his council, his justice, and his trust in rights and law will be completely lost. Dear friends, look, we're going through a period in Turkey where injustice is no longer discussed, it's ongoing, it's based on injustice. When it was first declared, the State of Emergency may not last three months, but if necessary, we will finish early. He said, "Your government spokesman, but it has been ten months, and no one knows how long it will last. Are there any MPs who will discuss this under the roof of this House, saying that the State of Emergency will end at this time? Do you know when the State of Emergency will end in this country? And I assure you, you don't know this at all, and you have nothing to say about it. Dear friends, look, in all the world, no matter how they govern, power is always remembered for something: a space of history is always with a name and it is remembered for it. For example, when we say Ecevit, we think of things that make us feel, make us think. When you say the period of the cylindricals, when you say the period of Menderes, you say the period of Erbakan, you say the period of the Kenan Universe. Its diplomatic activities, in their style, are historical. Dear friends, it seems so clear today that what stands out amongst the things we're going to call the AKP era is an injustice, an injustice, an injustice, that has never been so deep, that their consciences have not been raised to such a great extent. The board of Judges and Prosecutors, which we will vote for later today, will serve as an example of the reconstruction of this injustice. What did you do in 2010? You handed the judgment over to a gang, saying, "No harm can be done to the head of the king's family." Then the construction of unjudgmented executions from across the country turned into courtrooms. What are you doing today? Today, you leave the judiciary under the supervision of the mayors, city council members, parliamentary candidates and people who are somehow involved with the AKP. This injustice is continuing, my friends, including the ruling party's own deputies, prime ministers, voters. Look, the AKP politics, the needs of the period, the changing political conditions, the changing strategies, the constant presumption of specific goals, the non-human-oriented attitude, may not be expected to be right and fair, but it shouldn't be so predictable. Where are the founders of the party's ideals now? Look at who the party's been walking together for 15 years, collaborating, confederating for similar purposes. I don't really count the opposition here, because that's not the kind of frame you should remember the opposition in. Because today's progress is at a point where the AKP will now be among the victims. Why, friends? Because it is no longer possible to talk about a political party with specific weight, decision-making, initiatives. The difference between arguing and renovating the parties and implementing the directive is a sign of this political organization's victimism. The AKP has now cornered itself, just like the trees surrounding itself with a hard shell, but wither and die inside. Of course, above all, you have to look at the lives that politics has set. Here's what the AKP will remember. What matter did the AKP say, saying peace, by saying peace, by saying, "Religion," by promising freedom, by asking for the people's trust, by taking it? Look, you said peace, we all know what's going on inside and out. We all know where we come from, not just in the country, but abroad. Diplomatic error cost $25 billion. Look, this is the statement of Mr. Erdogan, who will soon be president of the Justice and Development Party. What's he saying? We can't afford to prolong our fight against Syria and DEAS. Why don't we? Look, 3 million people are in Turkey; everything from education to health is ours. We found $25 billion, but what about tomorrow? We need to find some solutions. We're the big country, so we're going to develop a new foreign policy move in foreign policy. You said, "Well, diplomacy has now fallen into the tomato negotiation, my friends. The youth unemployment rate has risen to 20 per cent, you said. You said freedom, there's no room in prisons, there's now a number of prisoners approaching 200,000. The country is in a mood for word-scissors from banners. Look, on May 1st, the banners cut off the "no" part. You've applied all kinds of procedures to evacuate the prisons, but there's still no room in the prisons. You said there was not a stable area left except for construction. You said economic recovery, the dollar went up to around $4 at a time, saw $4; we're at the peak of 12 percent and nine years of April inflation. You've gone to the rescue of bank loans with credit guarantees, with treasure, with the tax of the nation, and you've secured banks, and you've billed them all to citizens. You said, "Democracy" in the elections. You put justice in the name of your party, and we will bring justice. You said, "You have made judgment political." Look, dear friends, judges in tea fields, judges and prosecutors in parliamentary halls, parliamentary rooms, politicians, journalists, academics in prisons. Is the wreckage you claim to be taking over better or worse than that, my friends? At present, in Turkey, when we took the State of Emergency balance sheet and looked at the figures, hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs. Look, a decision was made to set up a review commission on this matter. Despite a long period of time passed, this review commission, the mechanism for the regulation of the regulation of the wrong decision-making, victimized people, had not been established for months, the Prime Minister said for the first time today: "The committee members have been identified. This commission, too, is very clear that our injustices will not be solved. It's time for us to put the hat in front of us and think about it. Dear friends, you're behind the wheel, and whatever happens to us, you blame the passengers, and I assure you, there are no passengers on that wheel anymore. From now on, especially after these changes, you have no excuse to make, no one to blame for any mistakes. So right now, it is imperative that we act with the right hand to actively run this House, to reflect life, national sovereignty, to fully form and work here. We, the Republican People's Party, want this incident investigated. We think it's imperative that this sort of thing doesn't happen after this. I hereby salute the General Assembly, my friends.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0061par0527	Thank you, Mr. Emre. Mr. Botan, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0062par0529	Yes, Mr. President, according to Article 60.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0061par0530	Here you go. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0062par0533	Thank you. Mr. President, we, the district legislators, are constantly facing these dire events. As our people address the problems in the region here, the AKP seems to have taken on its own protection and taken on a task to distort them. Now, before people's foreheads, their consciences should be worth prostrating themselves to. People shouldn't be more deaf in their conscience than in their ears. Look, there's some serious irresponsibility in the area, and there's serious armored car terror. Old, old man... he's got a red light, security and so on, but people's right to live in the settlements is being ignored. Women, children, old, old, sick, regardless of the fact that there have been six incidents between the 17th of the month and the 23rd after the referendum, and many of them -- there are images -- are people who are direct to the truth.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0063par0538	Here you go, finish up.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0062par0539	... whose rights of life were practically ignored, and three of those six cases ended up dead. Now, speaking of these things, we're not doing a conscious smear of security forces, but there's a very serious situation in there that is really irresponsible, and the House needs to seize this situation immediately, and the owners need to be seriously stimulated. There's a direct motive, so don't let anyone do it like it was just an accident. Of course, we don't call accidents anything, but in three days, we're talking about six incidents in the Van, one in a row, including security forces, especially armored vehicles. It's not just Van. It's all over the region. We invite everyone to be sensitive about it, to be conscientious. No one has the right to politize and distort the case, to constantly memorize these events, to distort the sufferings of our people. I invite everyone to sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0064par0542	Thank you, Mr. Botan. The last speaker on the proposal and also on the proposal is Mehmet Erdogan, the Muğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0065par0549	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the HDP group's proposal. I hereby salute your high council. This hand, which occurred at the beginning of my words on May 4th, was killed in the accident by Muhammad Yıldırım and Furkan Yıldırım to the brothers of God, their mother, their father, and their relatives. Of course, it's hard not to worry about it, but our two little children have died in this case. Our hope is that such incidents, accidents like this, will never happen again, and we believe that our law enforcement forces will give us the necessary attention and attention. Of course, I'd like to share a few things with you here before I begin my words. Last week, on Wednesday (May 11th), we lost my esteemed public prosecutor, Mustafa Alper. I ask the Lord God for his mercy, and my condolences to his wife, his family, his children, and our nation. Again, on Saturday (May 13th), we had a terrible accident in the Sakartepe position of our Mugla. Here, 24 of our citizens are mostly women and children -- as a tour bus flies from Sakartepe on the way from İzmir to Marmaris to Mother's Day. May Allah have mercy on them, and we wish to be patient with their relatives, and to offer our condolences. According to a report earlier today, before entering the General Assembly, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorist organization and security forces in the district of Maskaka district of Tripoli have lost their lives. We ask for the mercy of all our martyrs, for the patience and condolences of our relatives. Of course, when we go back to this case again, the HDP group proposal, that this was an accident, that the investigation was carried out about the Panzer driver and that he was arrested and put in prison; again, there was a number of incidents in the same place before that, as a result of another civilian vehicle hitting the same house, where the house's position, the zoning situation should actually be examined; hopefully, the delegation from the Human Rights Commission will also need to pay attention to this situation next week. Gene, you know, there's a lot of reasons why this was an accident, because it's hard to imagine that the Panzer driver there was drunk, because the Panzer driver was already patrolling, the driver of the team that was trying to secure our citizens in the area, and at the same time, we have other law enforcement officers inside that vehicle. Therefore, it is evident that in such an event, such as alcohol and so on, it is unacceptable for fellow workers to allow it. In addition, we have been informed that the Police General Directorate has appointed two police chief inspectors, and the investigation is under way. It is also being investigated by judicial authorities. We also believe that the judicial and administrative authorities will do what is necessary for those who are imperfect to be found and punished. Here, of course, we need to know that our police and gendarmes are very sensitive to the fight against terrorism, especially to the precision necessary for our civilian citizens, especially our women and children, not to be harmed during these operations. There are many examples of this. Our security forces have shown the necessary sensitivity during the last few years of ditch operations and on the night of July 15th, and hopefully, we won't hear of such an unpleasant accident again, we won't see it, we won't live. I'd like to bring to your attention the events of terrorism at the edge of our borders. Both the United States and Russia provide heavy weapons to the YPG and the NYD, giving arm-to- arm images with them, even to hang their own flags in the tents of the PYD. Everyone knows that, including some Western countries. The most important thing we're going to say from here, once and for all, is that no one should know that no state should cooperate with the terrorist organization because the support given to these terrorist organizations today may only disturb the state of the Republic of Turkey in the short term, but the boomerang effect will also harm those who support these terrorist organizations tomorrow. In this regard, it is good for America, Russia, and other Western countries to be careful already. Gene, it is clear that this work will not fit into friendship, neighbouring, alliance, because it is clear that the weapons given to the NYD and the YPG have quickly fallen into the hands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and have been used against our security forces in Turkey as it did yesterday in Şırnak Uludere. Yesterday, in Şırnak Uludere, the PKK attacked our security forces with anti-tank weapons. Gene, it is also a fact that recently, in Tucson and some other operations in the region, anti-tank mines, anti-tank missiles, and anti-tanks have been captured; these weapons have been known to be delivered by whom, as well, to the so-called YPG, PYD, to the PKK, but in reality to the hands of the PKK. In that sense, we'd like to warn our colleagues. Gene, I believe that those who give such heavy weapons to terrorist organizations should be ready to account for the serious conflicts in the region after this, both for America and Russia and for other Western countries. Of course, as the Republic of Turkey's state, it is not possible for us to be insensitive to these events that are happening right under our noses. Turkey must take serious measures to prevent the entry of its operations and terrorist organisations in that region, as well as to border security, by taking very serious measures against the United States, Russia, and other Western countries to the PYD, to the YPG, to Turkey. Again, our country has to do without delay to prepare our country for the fight against these heavy weapons that are likely to come to Turkey, and also our own army, our military, our police, and our gendarmes, to arm them with weapons that are qualified to stand against them, because our most important mission, as any state does, is to ensure the safety and peace of our nation, our citizens living in our country. Of course, our security forces have enough experience in this matter, but in accordance with the construction on the other side, we, as the Republic of Turkey's state, need to arm that soldier, our police, with enough weapons, ammunition, and take the necessary precautions. Now, in this process, especially within the scope of the President's trip to the United States today -- a few hours from now -- I hope there will be a meeting that results, and America and Russia will pull back these steps and stop helping terrorist organizations. Otherwise, the responsibility of events in the region affects the plague of bloodshed, the Americas, and Russia. In this regard, he already wishes that both our citizens and our soldiers in the region and our police will enter a sensitive process of dealing with these issues and that we will not face new dire events, and I wish Turkish police, Turkish police, success in their efforts to fight terrorism in the coming process. I remember our martyrs and veterans with mercy and gratitude. In this case, I ask God's mercy again for our children who have lost their lives. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0066par0568	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 16/05/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. İstanbul MP Group Deputy Chair Engin Altay, Ankara MP Deputy Chair Levent Gök and Manisa Deputy Chair Free Special, founder of our country's historian's title as authors, Grand Commander Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the weak and shallow characters who attacked family members with hatred were appointed by the Turkish Parliament's motion to investigate their participation in conferences and camps as guides to our university youth, 16/5/2017. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday (16/5/2017) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. Congressmans, we're going to begin negotiations with the Republican People's Party Group proposal, but I'm hearing a hum in the General Assembly, I'd like to invite the MPs to rest, please, sir. The first speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0067par0584	Dear friends, I salute the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President, including you, and salute the spiritual personality of our founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Republic, the Republic of all of us, like language, culture...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0068par0587	Mr. President, there's a lot of buzzing.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0069par0588	Mr. Özkan, just a moment... Congressmans, I see a chat group or groups. Please, sir... One moment, Mr. Ozkan, one moment, sir. If the conversation ends, I'll tell Mr. Ozkan to continue. Go ahead, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0070par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. I took the stand believing that my speech would reflect the common value of all my friends. Like our history, like our culture, our flag, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our great leaders before him -- like the conqueror, like the Law, like Mr. Ertugrul -- are sacred values to us. The honor of each citizen, his family, is as sacred as these personalities that make up our history, and it is not possible to accept an attack on them. I can't imagine it would be possible, especially to see that the people who created this House, who worked for their nation with conversation, with enthusiasm, with such dishonor, would accept such an attack. I can't believe any of my friends here would agree to that. For that reason, I, the Parliament of Turkey, as a whole, invite the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate, resist, and together end these attacks against Ataturk. History is built on partnerships. The most important thing that makes history is our common values. We can't set a date on our battles. He creates values that are built on hostility. If we don't defend our common values and don't know what our history is, destruction will be inevitable for us. I am on the stand today believing that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will stand up to all of us in the face of these despicable attacks. Because we all have this flag in common, this country in common, and we are all children of this war, of the Imperial War, of the Battle of Salvation. As a child of a family of two martyrs of the Salvation War, I would like to inform my friends from here that perhaps they have no knowledge of the extent of the attack on Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, as a child of a family who lost one in Çanakkale, one in Dumlupınar. We are faced with a vileness that defames Ataturk, his family, his mother, his spiritual children, and that which is done against the people. The Justice and Development Party's Deputy Director Naci Hoxha has just made a very valuable statement about how history was created. We call it the dialectic reality. The dialectic reality is what brings us together, the spirits of people who speak that language, the cultures they produce, and the sense of history they all grow together. If we remove these consciousnesss, our living together will be eliminated. Whether we know it or not, it's the consciousness of the nations. Mustafa Kemal, who has participated in 11 wars in the 17 years of his life, has received 24 medals and 7 marks, has written 13 books, one of the symbols of the great struggle, leaving us free, independent, and free country, where millions of free people can live on this land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I don't know how many books he reads to those who called him a historian today, or under other adjectives, but there's a memorial, there's his library, there's notes in that library, next to every book he reads. These notes tell us that 3,977 had read books, 3.977. Today, in Turkey or in the world, how many of the ruling classes have reached this number of books that consider themselves intellectual? Mustafa Kemal Pasha took the Bandırma ferry from Istanbul today to save his homeland and honor. As the heroes entered the city from İzmir, our first platoon -- a platoon of 11 -- ambushed and martyred the city. Mustafa Kemal was very upset when he heard about it, so he had a statue planted there. Please take a careful look at what they have written on the floor of that statue as they pass by: they have been martyred for the country and for the integrity of the martyrs. The first and final appearance of any action and action that will disturb them in their graves must be done by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. If we don't do this together, hand to hand, shoulder to shoulder, heart to heart, we will lose our consciousness of history if these attacks continue in the holy form of yours, my holy. This is a very dangerous situation. Friends, I want to remind you of a fact about Mrs. Zübeyde without ever mentioning those words, since it would be dishonorable to say what was said about Mrs. Zübeyde, the saintly mother of Ataturk, on television or here. I would like to read to you the will of that mother, Anne Zübeyde, concerning the words of the mother of Ataturk. Zübeyde Anne's will: bury him in the voices of God the God of God. He wants to be taken with his masters in the burial and burial work (which is written by Mevlevi dervistin Sami) and with his masters. On the evening of the third day of his defense, he leaves 450 pounds of paper to be handed over to his teachers, his teachers, his relatives, and his friends, after dinner, to read from the Qur'an after the prayer and to the teachers. For this lady, the words of Mother Zübeyde must stone those who speak. But for him, we must all make a decision together; either we will stop this work; as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will defend the people who established them, who established us, or we will remain silent about being insulted by those people. If you reject this motion, it will be perceived as silence outside. I want to believe that all my congressman friends here feel the same way about me with the same spirit and excitement. That's what I think it is. It would be a great shame for both Turkey's savings and humanity to accept otherwise. The Republic of Turkey has come a long way since 1923. I'll thank you to our first Prime Minister, Mr. Ismet Inönul, by reading a paragraph from a report by Mustafa Kemal. The number of doctors is 337. The loan sharks are crushing the public everywhere. We're supposed to be farm country, but we get most of our breadstick flour from the outside. I'm talking about the medical officer, 434, 1923, my friends. ▪ The number of months is 136. Few cities have electricity, except Izmir and Istanbul, but no electricity outside the centers. There are pharmacies in three cities. Diseases of the plague break our people. Three million of our people are Trahomous; malaria, typhoid, tuberculosis, syphilis, and other diseases. We even bring the brick from the outside. If those who have a heart, a conscience, and who have come to this nation today with glory, honor, and pride, and have a conscience, in comparison between that day and today, Mustafa Kemal will be blasphemed, his mother will be insulted, his spiritual children will be insulted; if they put their children on the list of doodles, let the dome fall, let us not breathe. (CHP cheers) Because then we have no loyalty, and where there is no loyalty, there is no conscience. I salute you with respect, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0071par0609	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Burhanettin is a Blackbuke MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0072par0612	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the motion of the Republican People's Party (CHP) to investigate the negatives in the dorms. I salute the High Council. Turkey is one of the youngest countries in Europe with an average of 29.6 years. Wherever it is, all young people are the hope of mankind's future. Prepping young people for the future is the highest and foremost duty of the government of the Republic of Turkey. Higher education students at the Credit and Housing Institution also live freely in the way they want to express their feelings and thoughts and beliefs under the security of our state. July 15th is the day our country survived a dark vortex with our nation's courage, glory and insight. The founder of the EC PARTI case, the President, our leader, our young men who first filled the squares with the call of Turkish lover Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Young people have constantly criticized young people, apolitics, French for Turkey's problems. They said a lot to the young people, but on July 15th, they challenged cannons, rifles, bullets without blinking, they held Turkey, they didn't hand over this country to the scoundrels. That night, we had a martyr of 249, nearly 3,000 wounded. Among our martyrs are young men of the age of 15-16, in the prime of their lives. We do what we have to do as the AK PARTI to keep our young people away from the networks of betrayals and terrorist organizations that wage war against their own country and their own nation by exploiting their spiritual values. This is a priority task for preparing our children's future. The Credit Homes Association today, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0073par0617	Mr. Uysal, the Republican People's Party Group that Mr. Tuncay Özkan is talking about is a very different matter, and you're talking about something else.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0072par0618	We're on our way, sir. Mr. President, we're on our way.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0073par0619	I'm inviting you to talk about it.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0072par0620	Yes, we're on our way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0074par0621	President, you didn't say that to one CHP guy. I hope you tell everyone.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0073par0622	I can't hear you, Congressman. Say that again.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0074par0623	You must give warning to all parties.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0075par0624	It's the first time you've done it.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0073par0625	Congressmans, I have been objectively engaged in the efforts of the director of this General Assembly. And so far, I've waited for your honor to get back to it, and I've just made this reminder. I see it's an excess of you to make this reminder from place to place. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal. Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0076par0627	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, if we answer the question directly without explaining some values, it's impossible to understand. After giving a few values, we'll explain why we said no to the research motion.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0077par0629	There's no need to explain.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0078par0630	Shame on you if you say no.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0079par0631	You're going to say no.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0080par0632	Let's explain, let's talk, let's make a deal. You're easy to deal with.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0081par0633	What do you mean, it's easy for us to get along?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0080par0634	We're against the motion you gave us. We also strongly condemn the attack against the person of Ataturk, and against his mother, and against his spiritual daughters.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0082par0635	A man's ritual is a man's work, not a word of it.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0083par0636	Congressmans, please, please listen to the speaker, sir. You go ahead, Mr. Easy.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0084par0638	Yeah, ritual's a thing, you don't talk about it. We're just trying to keep up with the work we're doing, so please understand that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. It's about dorms, how much we invest in raising young people... those young people aren't our young people, they're all of us. A total of 728 dorms in 81 provinces and 170 districts of the Credit Homes Association today have achieved the capacity of 601,703 beds, two of which are in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. As of 2018, the number is expected to rise to 750 thousand. The change is not only in the capacity of the bed; the ward and the bunk system have been abandoned, and the rooms are for one person, three people, and a modern hotel.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0085par0643	You're talking about the full motion.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0084par0644	We're talking about the motion.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0086par0645	You went to Cyprus.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0087par0646	Where did the children burn in Aladağ?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0084par0647	Sir?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0087par0648	Where did the children burn in Aladağ?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0088par0649	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Gentle, you address the General Assembly, sir. Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0089par0652	In 2002, only 450,000 students received student loans, giving scholarships or student loans to 1,622,000 students today. Food allowance, which was 11 lira a month in 2002, was raised from January 2017 to $285. The amount of student loan paid in 2002 was 45 lira per month, and was raised to $425 in January 2017. Of course, our students are not only given housing services in Credit Homes, they are also provided for social and cultural activities in order for our students to prepare for the future. We strongly condemn the attack on Ataturk, the attack on his family. Those who were invited to the Credit Homes that day did not commit these crimes, nor were they guilty. When you were going to give a lecture, even if you asked someone for a clean paper, they were in a position to give you that clean paper for that day. Now, if you say that the AK PARTY is doing this consciously, that would be unfair. We want to point out that Ataturk, the family of Ataturk, and their daughters are as much ours as yours. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] The children who grew up in those dorms are not just your children, but our children and our future. So...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0090par0657	I say no. That's why you say no!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0089par0658	Now, in an environment like this, in order to shade what's been done, we'd like to point out that we're against this motion for research.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0091par0659	Why?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0092par0660	Why not?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0089par0661	It's been brought to justice.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0093par0662	But we still don't get it.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0089par0663	But wait a minute... give me a life. From now on, when those who have been called to these conferences are found guilty by judgment and convicted of crimes against Ataturk (Ataturk) and Ataturk (Ataturk), I say that if these people are invited again in order to inform the students, then you will give them the motion to investigate, and then I will give you the "no" with you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0094par0665	You have to say yes, yes.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0095par0666	Why are you saying no?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0089par0667	I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0096par0669	How many insults do you need?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0097par0670	Thank you, Mr. Easy. Members of parliament, Mr. Burhanettin said that as he began speaking on the bench, I would like to express my opinion on the People's Party Group's proposal for the loans and dorms' dorms. Obviously, there's been some misinformation. So I waited for, like, five minutes, and in order to help Mr. Ujsal, the subject was probably transferred to him differently, so I reminded him that he was involved in something like that. My warning has no other purpose, and I'm expressing my regrets to my friends who are trying to draw this to another goal. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Ruhi Ersoy is an Ottoman MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0098par0675	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, the common value of the Turkish nation, the name of St. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is on the basis of discussion, and because of the establishment of such an agenda in parliament, we as the Nationalist Movement Party are in satire and we are cursed in the presence of the so-called historian populists who make these social statements publicly and publicly, in the presence of the Grand National Assembly. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I have made a promise in favour of the motion, otherwise we have no words to say against the civil movement of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, architect of the enlightened Turkish Renaissance, who is part of the Turkish nation's glorious struggle and will rise like a new sun from the civilization horizon. Because today, through the common fundamental values that bring us together, the nation re-creates itself, and with this arrival in the future, it continues to rebuild itself every day. Where did these so-called populist historians, like the popular cultural argument, come to the discussion ground -- on huge television channels? The developments in Turkey, Turkish modernisation and the miracle of the republic, which we refer to as Turkish Renaissance, have begun to end up in Turkey by our women in no other country but Turkey, and it has been possible to carry us to this day. The coups have passed, democracy has had a rough time, but despite all that, society has been able to blend in and re-create itself. In 1938, Turkics, who developed contradictions in basic principles and ideals in order for the derailed republic to be restored, along with Ataturk, became Turkish nationalists; they were sent to coffins in May 3, 1944, and later Alparslan Turkech as the political representative of this process, why did you need to establish the MHP when he began to express himself as a political representative of the process? Why are you saying this when you have CHP? It's derailed from the question, so we'd like to get the republic back on track. He used his statement. As nationalists, we, the nationalists, as the Nationalist Movement Party, see the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal (i) as the savior of the Turkish mind, as the representative of the Turkish mind; and the Prime Minister Alparslan Türkşeş (i.e. Basbug Alparslan) as the founder's defender of general threats, today's Nationalist Movement Party as the spokesman for the Turkish nation's mission in order to keep the state alive. This is one side of the work, but the other part of the republic's establishment, especially in the last century, in the last hundred years, in a period of a hundred and fifty years, when Ottomans' religious understanding collapsed in an environment that made the religious mind prevail again, and established the religious works in 1932, and made the first Koran translation of the religion in order to learn the word of God through direct knowledge, and closed its ranks with the people in order to promote all of them to Hamdi Yazr.a, from their mosque constructions to Rıfat Bürrekçi. The nation, who did not know the true Ataturk, reacted against those who were imposed on the people in the name of Ataturk. There are studies of respected scientists that we have trusted with their knowledge. One of them is Dr. Ali Guler. He's an important historian who served in the military and in the military for many years. I present to the public the two important works of Ataturk's Hidden Way and my family (Ataturk's Hidden Family) from the Parliament. So, on the day that those who made the republic's values in this campsation and polarization, according to their own ideology, the other of the Republic, the other of the Republic, the other of the republic, the other of the Ottomans, the separatist politics that showed the other of the republic in a dense way, one day again, in a group of talks, Mr. Leader of the National Movement State Garden said: "The liberation of Turkey is based on a rope drawn between Anittepe and Kopepepe," he said. Thus, it is not in the best interest of us to consider historical events on one historical basis today; two, when we engage in debates over the fundamental values that have brought us together, it can never be met with good intent to make controversial issues the basis of politics as the basis. It is also a fact that when you go from the Riza Nur memorials to the sources of slandering Ataturk, by the works of certain religious leaders, the first real source of Reza Nur will actually be used by different inks in these areas, based on the origins of the relevant library in France. We sincerely believe that when the work of Ali Güler will be read, these truths will be revealed. We stand by this meaning... in the attempt to commit treason in the 15th of July, in the name of religion, in the name of Islam, this sophisticated understanding of how this nation's weapon could be drawn to the children of this nation has once again lost, and with Mustafa Kemal's insight of secularism, with the understanding of freedom, of personalism, the understanding of democracy, the public has been able to meet again. Many intellectuals, intellectual, judgmental leaders, and voting citizens who serve the so-called ruling party kitchen in this regard have seen that the truth that happened after the July 15th took place, the place where I only prayed, where I laid down my prayer, where I could not be described as my native, non-national, non-governmental, and non-governmental Muslim community. They have all seen together, and have seen that many of the conservatives -- in which we have discussed intellectually and academically -- in which the political Islamic Islamic tradition -- in which I have laid down my prayer -- they have not been able to live with this truth; the nation, without the Turkish nation, without the great Turkish nation, the flag, they have not been able to understand it. So they said again in the squares, and therefore carried Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to the rally squares of the great Turkish nation. We thank them; it was the truth, the truth. But are those who want to draw the Ataturk (Ataturk) to the ground of discussion, as I said at the beginning, offended by this development? Are those who are uncomfortable with an understanding that Turkey is once again the great Turkish nation family and that its subject, along with all its elements, has a sense of the fact that its burden is a democracy, its object is a state, are trying to cover this truth by bringing St. Ataturk to the stage of discussion? I say it is a public gain for the ruling party's actors to publicly criticize and criticize this issue, and to say that there are some respected lawmakers among us who have been told about it against Ataturk. And to condemn it, to condemn it, to condemn it in some way, and to condemn it in some way, is a fact that these issues should not be on the basis of discussion. This is our savings from debates and experience, and we can reach the days when the state of the Republic of Turkey, which will rise like a new sun on the civilization horizon, can produce civilization in history, as we have seen in history, in the nearest Anatolian geography, Seljuclu, Ottoman, the Republic's abandonment, that will forever bring joy to the people, the state and civilization, and we can again discuss what kind of youth those who founded the republic want to have. Between 1923 and 1938, what kind of youth did the MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly want? The doctoral thesis has been made, which answers the question. The reading of these thesises is in great excitement and enthusiasm for the days when we will be born like a new sun on the horizon of civilization with the republic's cultural code and hidden ataturk, the real one, and the great Turkish nation of the nationalist movement is waiting for this. With these thoughts and feelings, I complete my words on behalf of the National Party of Action, with respect to the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0099par0686	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0687	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0099par0688	Mr. Altay, I believe you have a request for the 60th Amendment.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0689	He was there, but you missed him, Mr. Ersoy. Mr. Ersoy's bullying against our party, I now have a request for further words.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0101par0690	What tease?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0099par0691	What sentence did he pick on, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0692	The Republican People's Party has been derailed, so the MHP has arrived.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0101par0693	No, he didn't say Republican People's Party, because the Republic derailed...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0694	And he's...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0101par0695	That can't happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0696	I mean, we'll call that a tease. Why would the Republic go off the rails? I mean, I consider it a tease, and every congressman should count it a tease.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0101par0697	Sir, is the concept of the Republic's People's Party a monopoly, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0100par0698	No, sir, go out and tell him. Have a friend clean it up.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0101par0699	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0102par0700	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0103par0701	It's the republic of all of us.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0104par0702	That's what I came here to tell all of us. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, none of us here has the right to question or question nationalism or faith or love of Ataturk, and that's for sure. However, as members of this Parliament, the great leader who established this Parliament -- it can be taken, it can be debated, I am an open man -- but as Tuncay Ozkan put it, the important individuals in our society, in our nation's coming to this point are also our virtues. I've just spoken from my position about what's causing these insults. They're perverts, they're insane, they're ungrateful, but where do they get the courage to look at this place? Speaking on behalf of the ruling party, the MP said, "Yes, that's happened, but that's in the judiciary." Now there's no need to talk about a subject in the judiciary. So someone will swear at Ataturk, looking at millions of people, and the AK PARTI MP will say here: "Yes, sir, but in this judgment, let the judge make a decision. Sir, there's no need to judge a thing like that. In the past, Mendezres did what you did in the past, to get more than three votes from the conservatives, and then he had to take out the late Menderes' Law to protect Ataturk, his seat. So that's what you're going to do, give or take, and I'd like to underline that. Ataturk is certainly not the Republican People's Party, of course not, all of you; if you have objections, criticisms, you do it, but respect is one thing. When you respect someone you don't even know... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to see such disrespect for such a great leader legitimately, to place this decision in court, to the conscience of the great nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0105par0713	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0106par0714	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0104par0715	Okay, I misunderstood.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0106par0716	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0107par0717	Mr. Akçay, come in, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0106par0718	Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Engin Altay, has made a promise not to taunt Mr. Ruhi Ersoy's speech, but to the speech of the speaker who spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group earlier, we must first put it out there. Thus, our speaker, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, also revealed that there was no bullying about his speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0107par0720	Yes, well, that settles it, Mr. Akçay, thank you. Your statements have been filed. The last speaker against the proposal is Naci Bostancı, MP of Amasya. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0108par0727	Mr. President, dear friends, there's a postmodern artist named Andy Warhol, a famous man, who says that everyone in our time will be famous for fifteen minutes. The deadline is probably getting shorter, and some can be famous for five minutes. Of course, for five minutes, fifteen minutes, no doubt the famous ones will not be famous for doing good and positive things. In modern-day communications, I think, it's a function that allows such negative fame. Someone's coming out, in what our people refer to as a little bit of slang, to be popular, rational, to be appropriate to society's conscience, morality, to fall aside, to be marginal, but to attract people's attention, just as Andy Warhol said. That's the extent of historianism. We know that serious historians aren't famous for five minutes, ten minutes. So Bernard Lewis was an important historian. Sina Akşin, Mete Tunçay, Kemal Karpat; all of these have done recent studies. For example, Peter Burke is an important historian, Marc Bloch, and we never think about it. But here are the people who were mentioned as just now, with historians, his method, his analysis, which had nothing to do with the way he was analyzed, and they said this sort of thing about Ataturk and his mother, who, unfortunately, had some strange and definitely historical knowledge of gossip and gossip, which had nothing to do with it, but would give them a negative five minutes of fame. In fact, everyone reacted against them; Mr. President spoke, Mr. Prime Minister spoke, presidents of political parties spoke, TVs spoke against them again. We had three friends here, and finally the exciting speech of Mr. Engin, which was all very nice, and it was a struggle against this madness. Now, beyond that -- the prosecutors are also on duty and they're doing the necessary investigations -- and I think it might have a negative effect on this, in five minutes, ten minutes, of caring too much about people with negative reputations, and in a negative way, contributing to their reputations. We know that no matter what his political opinion is in society, no matter how he looks at the future of Turkey, there is no problem between people about the fundamental values of recent history; there may be differences in interpretation, there may be differences in approach, but there will never be an approach to gossip and gossip in the way that no political group is expressed here. Of course, criticism of recent history can be done, human beings can be spoken of; there may be criticism of the record of following the methodology of history, being rational, acting with a sense of right and justice, taking the basis of scientific methods, as well as making assessments in terms of the environments outside my political community, which may have a sense of right and justice. But to take such insufferable words too seriously... society has done what it has to do; politics has done it; the court has done it; I don't find it right to take it too seriously. There have been some very valuable views expressed here. I also find it appropriate to establish a relationship between the group proposal of the Republican People's Party and the commitment to the institutional values of the Republic of Turkey. In the end, the important thing is to inform the community about where the political parties stand, how they look at the issue, and that information has been given. Beyond that, it's a matter of method in the working methods of the House. We oppose the Republican People's Party's group proposal in this framework, we say no. But I'd also like to express my appreciation that we all agree on these things in common. Thank you, my respects...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0109par0734	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0110par0735	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0109par0736	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0110par0737	Sir, I'll make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0109par0738	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0110par0741	Thank you. Mr. President, I take it Mr. Bostanci hasn't read our group proposal, either. Because we don't want to get carried away by the words of three perverts, we don't need that from Ataturk. I don't even want to mention their names. Our problem here is that these perverts, under various summer camps, social events and so forth, give conferences and seminars to these students in these dorms at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We don't think that's true. Since we have information, hearing, and conviction that these and such events are very common throughout Turkey, we offer the High Council's appreciation that it is necessary to investigate. It's not about occupying the agenda of the House because three perverts have spoken, but of course, we don't agree: well, they're perverts. We can't say they're perverts.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0111par0743	No, no, no.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0110par0744	In this country, we do not curse Ataturk, and we want to emphasize that. (CHEERING) I think you should shout it out in a louder voice than we do. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0112par0746	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0113par0748	Mr. President, after this incident happened, programs have been canceled from anywhere they're going to go within a program. The reaction of society and institutions is evident after the incident. From now on, after such an incident, any such task is not to be given a lecture, but it is our duty to do what is necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0112par0750	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0114par0757	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit01spe0112par0758	There's a call request, so I'm going to do the roll call; before that, I'm going to identify the members of lawmakers who have asked for a roll call by name. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Men, Mr. Emir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Divisioner, Mr. Budak, Mr. Star Bicer, Mr. Emre, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Yellowhan, Mr. Green. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0112par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 16/05/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President On Tuesday (May 16th and 23rd 2017), the General Assembly's unspoken questions were not discussed; The Law Proposal 475, which was distributed by pressure, was to be placed in the 1st place of the Agenda in the first place, after 48 hours of the Law Proposal and Proposals of Law. On Tuesday (March 16/05/2017) the HSK's membership election must be carried out according to the interim Article 21st amendment of the Constitution; in the case that the election of 2 to 3 (367 members) cannot be finalised in the 1st vote, the 2/05/2017 vote must be held; in the case that the member's integer is not met in the 5th vote; in the case that the 3/05/2017 member vote cannot be finalised in the 1st vote; in the case that the 3/05/2017 vote does not conclude the 3/2017 member vote, the 3/7th vote will be held in the third (330 members) will be held by the third (330 members). In this vote, the conclusion of the vote will be completed by the third majority of the third majority (330 members). In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP... Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0115par0018	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, in our group proposal, the law proposal, which has been closely followed by public opinion, for the restructuring of public debt, has now entered the red agenda with the number of 475 rows. This law is recommended to be taken to the top of the agenda. In this law, there is a delay in the amount of money due to the actual public will, delay interest, administrative fines, the restructuring of these ferries that depend on tax fines, a partial waiver from part of it, part of it, so that investments can be accelerated, especially by law number 6736, and the completion of talks on June 30, 2016, which have been laid down before this treacherous coup attempt, and the breathing of the tradesman, especially this important arrangement that concerns nearly 7 million citizens, will be taken into the order of the agenda tomorrow. On the other hand, the Law on Constitutional Change number 6771 -- you know -- was published in the Official Gazette, April 27, 2017. The election of seven members who should have been elected by the Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall have to be completed within thirty days. So, in our proposal, we propose that the election of these members of the HSK be completed and completed today -- as of today -- by the basis of the elections that should be made under the amendment of the Constitution's Article 21st amendment -- and that the election of these members of the HSK should be completed today, hopefully, until each of these three rounds are completed -- and that the Law Proposal, again, of 475 rows, should be discussed as the main law, which is 22 articles. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0116par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP, against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Acar Başaran.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0117par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, should I say in a few hours or a few minutes, we're going to have to choose the members of the HSK here. But I think we need to look at a historical history of this, where we've come from, or why we're talking about the election of members of the HSK here today as the legislature, or maybe we need to talk about this: when this constitutional amendment came -- the biggest argument was that the separation of forces was going to be improved, and there was a claim to be even deeper and bigger growth. But what we've clearly seen today in the application of this first item is that we're seeing today the first effect of an arrangement where the forces are actually a complete mess, where they're completely intertwined. Because, you know, with the 2010 referendum, the system was actually completely changed and the HSYK was brought in by choice. However, within this HSYK, the group, which had been friends at that time of power, but then conflicted interests, or, somehow, when fighting amongst themselves grew, its goal was to infiltrate all sides, where it became its enemy. As a lawyer, as a lawyer, I've seen it happen to myself, and I've seen it very clearly, especially through the attacks on the political movement that I belong to. There were a lot of operations done by the congregation; Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, but there was another one, which was never really talked about, and there were still hundreds of years in prison, and we got out of those podiums at that time, and maybe we weren't there, but our friends were coming in and saying to you -- they weren't listening again, and again, we were hearing about it -- look, it wasn't the law that was being done. There's nothing legal about these operations. This was an attack on a political idea, an ideology, a political movement. When we said no, it was called "No." But when something else came up in 17-25, it was said that it was a congregation structure and that it infiltrated power. I wonder if power had infiltrated them, or if they had infiltrated the power, which, in fact, I think, is still a situation we haven't been able to make clear. Well, friends, from that period, even in the 1980s, even in the 1990s, the politicalisation of the judiciary may be damaging to us today, we may be exposed to these attacks of the judiciary today, but we've told each and every time, we need justice; we may need it today, but we've seen the days when you need it. We were saying to the members of the congregation, and I was saying to them as a lawyer, and we're still saying to them... look, what you're doing is illegal, the universal law of law, and the 1980 coup law that you call here and on the platforms, and then, after that, it's against the law that they have successors. Those who laugh and pass by are now condemned to that justice, they're begging for it everywhere right now. We argue that they should be brought to justice. That, my friends, is the political process of judgment. Now, a word of independence has been added to this amendment. There has been propaganda everywhere. Look, here's a chart of the proceedings that have been prepared regarding us, especially our co-Chairs and fellow lawmakers. Look, there are two proceedings in 2013 about Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, but let's make it real somehow. After he said that, the number of proceedings increased to 14 in 2016. Now, please don't get up and tell us about the neutral and independent of the judiciary. The judiciary has now become the AKP's legal commission, and I think it has even become the legal commission of the AKP-MHP alliance. Names mentioned in HSK membership or names to vote for here are women's arms of a party, a member of a party, a lawyer for another party's leader; is that the independent and impartial judiciary? Is this really going to ease the public conscience? Yes, there is a fair trial. Yes, there's law here. Is he going to say that? Or will the government silence everyone he sees against himself by the hand of this judgment, which he holds in his hand as the sword of Damocles? We've seen examples of this, like I said, we've seen it in the CK files, we've seen it in the 1980s, we've seen it in the 1990s. Look, one of them is my father, who was murdered in the 1990s, and that's the most important reason why I became a lawyer. I really thought there was a law in this country at the time, with a child's mind, or really, like the story in Germany, I thought there were lawyers and judges in Berlin, or Ankara, but when I finished law school, I realized that it was all a figment of my imagination because there was no trial, just instructions. A journalist comes out, points to a target, gets arrested the next day. Look, our friends are being released, arrested, released, arrested. A friend of ours, Mr. Besime Konca, was released in Batman. An hour's journey had arrived in Diyarbakir. An appeal had been issued and a warrant had been issued for his arrest. Is that even possible? Are we going to talk about independent and impartial judgment here? What changed in an hour, what fell on the judge's mind, what fell on his head, that he gave up his decision, and made another decision? Ferhat Encu has been issued a warrant for his arrest before he even landed at Şırnak Airport. Again, Besime Konca was released just a few days ago, but there was some sort of objection. In fact, the case's own prosecutor requested evacuation, but the attorney general got a job. It's obvious where he got his instructions. Because this political movement, HDP (HDP) and HDP (HDP) were planned to be purged. Although our friend has been evacuated... who the lawyers know of the crime of propaganda, friends, not even the punishment of being arrested is a sentence that can already be served, but while the prosecutor of the case calls it propaganda, Mr. Attorney General, somehow, it's not propaganda, it's organization membership. Is it with this that we shall establish a peaceful society in this land? There's a prostitution case in Batman, a prostitution case you all don't want to hear, but somehow someone's been released on bail. Which means he'll pay his bail, which means he'll be able to keep himself from being judged like this. We're talking about a legal system like this, but let's be clear, folks, it's not about the problems in the legal system. Look, when justice touches the public conscience, think of the problems of society. When people think they can't get justice, when people think the courts don't make fair decisions, do you want them to go back and make up for it, design a society like this, or do you intend for society to become chaos? You've done it, you've done it with the congregation, you've seen the consequences, you've given all the jurisdictions to the community... we know we've seen it. There was an imam in Batman, and the judge who went before him and bowed down was the prosecutor. You know it and we know it. Why wasn't he interfered? Because they were your friends then. That's what brought the July 15 coup attempt, and you know it. We always say... look, fellas, in this country, there's no standing in the face of the blows you've designed. There is only one stance in this country against coups: democratization, implementing the universal principles of law, establishing a system of respect for human rights, and don't stop collecting all these men in one hand. It may be in your favor today, but it doesn't mean you won't be in the wrong place in three days. Again, we remind you that you can become enemies tomorrow with your friends today. You have no right to say, "You have no right to fight in front of those tanks. This Parliament will solve this problem." Again, we warn you: look, people are on hunger strike to seek rights. Sixty-some days in prison, people went on a hunger strike to live up to their own dignity, and look today, people are on hunger strike because they were fired from their work with the KHK. Again, a father is on a hunger strike to get his child's funeral. If a hunger strike has become a way of seeking rights in a country, then that country has lost its ability to become a state of law, and if the rule of law goes beyond its principle, well, then we're saying again and warning that there's a chance that we're facing a bigger blow than the one you're trying to repel. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0118par0039	Thank you, Mr. Acar Başaran. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Hasan Basri Kurt, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0119par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our party's group proposal. I salute you all with respect and respect. We're going to change the structure of the HSYK today, along with the constitutional amendments we've made with the public vote, and we're going to bring it up on our agenda, and there's an arrangement for their interest, as well as the tax debts that our tradesmen have been waiting for. It's been a long time since our citizen, our tradesman, asked us to do something that we came across when we were on the field. This came up on the Commission last week, and after today's agenda, we'd like to put it on the agenda tomorrow with the number of 475 rows. I think we have a lot of work to do, and I think it's in order to get it on the agenda as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0120par0048	Thank you, Mr. Kurt, and thank you very much for this brief conversation. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Altay, are you going to be brief, too?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0121par0053	Mr. President, you can appreciate that I can't speak so briefly.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0120par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0121par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. With the EC PARTI group's proposal, the actual application of the constitutional amendment, which is yet to take place in 2019, is continuing. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, again, is being cut off from its most basic job of control. The right of control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will unfortunately not be used to opposition parties again with the majority of the majority of the party's fingers. However, they are likely to discuss a proposal for the restructuring of some public debt. Fine, I'll see you. Tomorrow, our members of the Plan and Budget Commission will reveal our understanding of this matter. Of course, in favour of the citizen, there is no harm in our party if every issue that comes into Turkey's Grand National Assembly contributes to the betterment of the citizen. Tomorrow we will contribute as much as possible to this bill. The need for such restructuring of our citizens is constantly born due to your wrong economic policies. How many pardons have we forgotten? So if you'd run the economy properly instead of making amends all the time, Congress wouldn't be here to make amends. Despite everything, the Republican People's Party will continue its positive contributions in matters that have touched the citizens' interests, the citizens' pockets. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, members of lawmakers, Mr. President, Turkey's Grand National Assembly began its work at 3:00 p.m., at 6:15 p.m., I was going to say there was no minister at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I saw our Minister of Education, who had just arrived and arrived. The Council of Ministers' disregard for the government's work in the Turkish Grand National Assembly is a violation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So it's also a violation of the national will you've been talking about. The new system didn't take effect, the ministers won't be here when the new system comes into effect, but we always say respect for the law, respect for the law, respect for the law. Here, our lawmakers are not talking about problems in election districts when they're talking about it in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and our MPs are talking about whether the government will do anything about it, whether there's a debate or a contribution to solving a problem. But for the government, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is just a detail. I'm sorry to say, that's the government's view of Congress. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, again, there is one subject that our nation's representatives have often expressed: the nation and its representatives of the islands in the Aegean Sea are confused. We expect the government to inform this parliament, to tell our MPs the truth, so to speak to our nation. We really want to know if you've given us the islands from Greece. We want to know if it's come to that. So it turned out to be a joke. Doesn't that hurt you? So you know how much blood a pebble has been taken for us in this country, and you know how to write a banner for our witnesses. On those islands -- some of which are registered to Turkey by international agreements -- on the United Nations-declared islands, isn't it hurting you that Greek soldiers are now turning sheep? It hurts me. I'm asking the National Movement Party, the People's Democratic Party, isn't it hurting you? What kind of a thing is that? Is that any way to get a legislator? We're gonna take care of people's blind money, and we're gonna take care of the country's pebble, that's it. (CHP cheers) Whoever can't do this will leave here, of course, by everyone's discretion. Gene, developments in Syria. Which one of you knows what's going on? I'm going to come here from the ruling party MPs -- I'm going to sacrifice my own speech -- lawmakers, this is what's happening in Syria, and it's going to happen. Is there a congressman here who can say, "I'm going to give up my own speech?" No, it's a story. Gene, the Strike Commission finished their work on January 3rd. You're angry with us as long as you call it a controlled coup. It's been five months, so why doesn't this report come out? If this blow isn't controlled... not to start a new discussion, but when that report comes out, the real apocalypse will break out, but there won't be a report. Well, shouldn't the commission here, yours, ours, all raised together, bring this work before the House? Are you going to keep watching this? I don't want to go any further, and that's a shame for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are people on the hunger strike. 100 times, we said, "Fight with the PKK" and "PKK" and "Fight with ISIS" in the harshest, cruelest way, we are ready to give you what you want." But what is KESK's fault? It is inhuman to accuse KESK as a terrorist organization, to perceive, to do such cruelty to KESK teachers, KESK professors. I'm telling you again, a member of parliament just told me that 10 MPs are in prison, including Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş. If they're guilty, they'll be tried, but we don't think it's right to put the president of a political party in prison before their crimes are fixed. Do not find them today, nor do you find them tomorrow. Let him come here, let him be judged, of course, if his crime is fixed, if his sentence is finalized. That's not true. This is also a stain for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a disgrace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's 11:00-12 today. As of 00, we face a new stain and shame. Members of parliament, Halide Edip Adıvar held a rally on June 6, 1919, held a rally on Sultanahmet. On May 19, 1919, he held a protest rally on the occupation of İzmir. Is there a governor in Istanbul now, General Harrington, as of now? Harrington's dead, so there's a third generation Harrington in Istanbul? Democracy is a regime of reaction and protest. We are patient, society is not tense, people are democratically using the right to react and protest in a peaceful manner on the streets, and we are saying that the government should ensure their safety, but a power society struggles to create a campsite in Istanbul and elsewhere. İstanbul Governor Harrington Beşiktaş has now banned May 19 activities in various regions of Beşiktas, where Mustafa Kemal Demirtaş moved from Beşiktaş borders to Samsun on the 16th of the month.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0122par0068	Boo!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0121par0069	Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! The reason for this is that, given the circumstances of our country, provocative actions and events can take place, including activities, people's peace, security and well-being and so on. The same governor -- a process of our country -- did not have such a hesitation during an event organised by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality with Vodafone. The same governor didn't have this problem for the Etnospor Cultural Festival, he didn't have any worries. The same governor, again Beşiktas, is not harmed at the same time in Beşiktas, where he now forbids, for the festival of science, culture, art and sports in the squares and streets -- along with Beşiktaş County National Education, even on 17 May -- there is no harm done. But on May 19, 1919, when Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a CHP municipality side by side, terror bans governorial activity due to provocation. I loved the governor, too, but I don't believe it was a decision the governor made personally. From this shame, this wrong decision must be returned at once, and the government and lawmakers of the EC PARTY should be more involved in this matter than we are. Gentlemen, what are you trying to do? I wonder what you're trying to put people through in Turkey. I don't mean you, I mean the government you voted for. What's being done? By banning May 19th, in the same three days of national education, without the threat of terrorism, provocation, the activity of a Republican People's Party municipality...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0123par0073	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Altay, complete.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0121par0074	I'm looking for something to ban the conditions of our country or something. This camping isn't cutting you off. By you, I mean the government. This camp does not cut President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Clearly, he has a desire to grow, to spread the camp. From this stand, I address the government members, and I address your conscience: Do not camp Turkey any more. Turkey needs peace, peace climate. The price of this decision will be high, the price of these and similar decisions will be high, heavy for the peace of the country, heavy for the peace of the country, heavy for the peace of the country, heavy for the peace of the country, and that shame will suffice you, enough for all of us. I invite you to come to common sense, and I invite you to put this disgrace in place of the governor who did not do what even General Harrington did. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0123par0077	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, do you have a request according to Article 60?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0124par0079	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0123par0080	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0124par0083	While I'm at a different point, while the House is in session, I mean, it's not about the matter that's being discussed, but if you think it's appropriate, now, later...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0123par0084	Here, while you're at it...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0124par0085	Okay. I wanted to say that it was especially important for women in Turkey, and I'm afraid I won't be able to be here tomorrow. May 17, 1987 is the anniversary of the campaign and march against the beating, and the 30th year is tomorrow. Especially for all women in Turkey, who lead the establishment of institutions and expose the violence against women in Turkey, which is breaking down, staying in the yen. It is the 30th anniversary of a day with a beginning, which means that it is not about private life, not about private life, and that it can end with the collective struggle of all women. Then the Purple Roof Women's Shelter Foundation, the Library of Women's Arts, the women's research departments at universities, is the anniversary of a campaign that has led to numerous changes in women's rights centers and laws in the bar. I specifically wanted to take a vow to commemorate it, and I want to end the days in Turkey wishing that all women would be free of violence and would actually be free of male sovereignty. There's one more thing that the House needs to know in particular, or rather, to enlighten us. If you'll excuse me, may I bring this up?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0125par0089	You're out of time, but come on in and pack it up in a minute.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0124par0090	Sure. Thank you. Now, Ankara Branch of the Chamber of Architects visited all parties today. I guess the other parties know about it, too. But there is a Clave mosque in the House, and this mosque is a mosque built by the famous architect Behruz Chinaci, a mosque that was awarded the Aga Khan Architecture Award in 1995 and actually built with a special understanding. Because the mosque is designed as a structure that does not suppress the Assembly, nor does it stand before the will of the Assembly, and it opens to a garden of Eden, which, of course, can pass through the right way, through the right way. But right now this mosque is closed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to finish the rest in a verbal report at the time, because I would like to ask: Are these mosques going to be destroyed and replaced by this fashion hall, or are they going to be built again, or will it, in fact, remain in place and open to the meeting, where there is no example in the world and a registered cultural presence with expert reports? That's what I want to ask you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0126par0095	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0127par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0126par0097	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0127par0099	Mr. President, thank you. An administrative decision taken by the Governor of İstanbul can be criticised, wrongly found here, objectionable, politically challenged. But it is not appropriate to present a governor of the state as the grandson of the third generation of General Harrington. It is not true, it is simply a manner and language that casts a shadow on the alleged issue. I would like to underline that. Second: AK PARTY has a policy based on integration of society and instigating the partnership of fate. You don't have to confuse political competition with camping. Sometimes it's said that you object to camping, and you may be serving camping, and you shouldn't be wrong about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0128par0103	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0129par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0128par0105	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0129par0106	In my speech, Mr. Bostancı has twisted my words, claiming that I am the third-generation grandson of General Harrington, our governor of Istanbul.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0128par0107	You mean you didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0129par0108	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0128par0109	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0129par0113	God exists, and you know I didn't say that. The politician knows what he's not going to say, and I know it. I specifically said that if this was Harrington, if Halide were one of the commanders of the occupational forces that allowed Edib, she wouldn't do it as a name.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0130par0114	You said it was worse than that?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0129par0115	Wait a minute. I said that if he was appointed commander of the occupational forces of Istanbul, his second generation, his third generation grandson, even if not now, he wouldn't do it. I'm sorry to hear you say that the governor of Istanbul is the grandson of Haroldton. This is an infraction, and I invite you to correct it. But I would have asked you, as Naci Bostancı, to say that the governor of Istanbul is doing wrong, preventing a holiday celebration is reckless, ill-advised, or even treason.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0131par0118	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0132par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0131par0120	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0132par0121	Mr. President, he's actually using a harsher statement, he said that, and everyone must have heard it. It's a savings of management, we don't know what it is, they're objecting, they can't expect us to get behind every objection, but let no one doubt that we'll be followers of justice and justice.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0131par0123	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0133par0124	Mr. President, we will continue to celebrate in spite of you in every square meter of every 780,500 square kilometers of Turkey on May 19th.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0132par0126	Not in spite of us, let's celebrate together.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0131par0127	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1128) I demand and demand that my original proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37, under Article 37 of my TBM Administration. On the proposal, Onursal Adıl Eylül, İstanbul MP will speak. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0134par0143	Mr. President, I'm going to talk to the esteemed lawmakers about the declaration of the day of mourning and the names of those who lost their lives in the work killings of April 28th. I salute the General Assembly. From the day the AKP came to power, 19,000 people were sacrificed in business killings, and hundreds of them were crippled. As you all know, last week was the 3rd anniversary of Soma. And the demand for justice for the 301 people we lost in Soma. No matter how much you guys keep playing the three monkeys, we haven't forgotten the kicks you've given to the grieving families or the mines you've been chasing after the allies and the graves for hundreds of workers. We haven't forgotten, and we won't let you forget. Dear lawmakers, Bünyamin teacher died last week as he fell on the pipe that was blown up by a crane in construction of the dam he worked on. I don't know if you're aware, Mr. Power Representatives. You know, you don't know about the hunger strike that's been going on in the heart of the capital for sixty-nine days, so it's very possible that you don't know about the Bünyamin teacher, but don't worry, we'll continue to address your dull consciences at every opportunity and remind the thousands of people you've victimized to the conscience of society. Dear MPs, Bünyamin was one of the 80 million citizens of this country who you exported, whose bread, work, and earned years of labor. In the middle of the night, you executed him without trial with the KHK, tested him with unemployment, closed his path of judgment, closed his rights, exported him out of the SGK records. In writing, you made Bünyam's teacher a living corpse, and Bünyam's teacher was 39 years old, and was killed in the construction site where he started 20 days ago. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça, left sixty-nine days behind in their hunger strike in the centre of the capital in the face of all the silence and indifference of power. ▪ We want our job back. They are now in critical condition in the hunger strike they started with a humanitarian demand. Thousands of people from all over Turkey speak of the hunger of Nuriye, and the hunger of Semih. You are deaf in your ears, blind in your eyes, and have a stone in your conscience against this cruelty. To mothers who demand an appointment with them, whose children are getting closer to death every day, let them wait for the commission, let them apply for the commission. He answers. What commission are you talking about, for God's sake? Who are you kidding? Despite the four months passed since you announced that KHK 685 will be established in January 23rd, why haven't you been active?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0135par0148	Today's over, today's over.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0134par0149	The commission that you promised the people whose property you seized, whose children you tested with hunger, because of their opposition, without even knowing what their crime was, is that people have been on hunger strike for 70 days, facing death. At least 37 people committed suicide in nine months. Of course, you don't care. When will you listen to the voice of the tens of thousands of victims you've created? You keep saying that you're fighting against it, and we're asking you, are you fighting by cutting off the wages of disabled children or by leaving their wives unemployed? Are you trying to fight the prison with a restraining order? Or do you fight only by evacuating Topbaş's son-in-law Kavurmaki, when over 800 prisoners have been left to die in prisons? Do you maintain justice by covering up the political foot? Dear MPs, I speak to your consciences from here, a member of this country, above all, as a citizen: hear now the hope of justice for thousands of people, give voice to the hunger of Nuriya and Semih, and give voice to the cries of mothers. Don't forget, the fish you've broken today will weigh you tomorrow. Therefore, O Moses, you are right, but Pharaoh gives us our provision. Don't say, and listen to your consciences. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0136par0153	Thank you, Mr. Nice Name. On the motion, Ali Şeker, İstanbul MP will speak as a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0137par0157	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to declare the names of those who lost their lives in the work killings of April 28th a day of mourning and a day of mourning. I salute the General Assembly. According to reports from the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, at least 1,970 workers were killed while working in Turkey in 2016. In 2016, miners were killed in Shirvan, farm workers in Alaşehir, textile workers in Bor. The greenhouse workers in Elazığ have lost their lives in mass business killings. We still don't know the number of deaths in the construction of the third airport. In the first four months of 2017, at least 586 workers lost their lives in business killings. The number of workers who lost their lives during the last month alone. My honorary friend just told me about one of the most tragic workers' losses. At the age of 39, the Bünyamin teacher, who you fired and sentenced to the unsecured working conditions of construction sites, was killed in business on the 20th day. Last Saturday, 301 miners lost their lives, and you're in the outhouse of it. A mother taking the stand on the 3rd anniversary of the Soma murder you call it, cried out in tears, "Do we have to die 300, 500, 500 for everyone to see?" Dear lawmakers, workers who have lost their lives in business killings are seeking justice. The futrate engineer protects consultants who want to talk about their pain, who want to talk about their pain, who kick workers in the street. What else is power doing? He punishes workers who work in work accidents and health care, fires them. In this area, such as the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, it prevents institutions from working with academics, publishing reports, developing solution proposals, and allowing us to know and hear the killings. Scientists who have dedicated their lives to science, peace, democracy and labour rights with the latest published KHK have been expelled by Professor Mehmet Karadar, Professor Dr. Onur Hamzaoglu and Assistant Assoc. Prof. Özgür Muftuoğlu, Turkish scientists who have struggled to reduce their deaths. These scientists were working in the field of labor rights, saying that the State of Emergency had negative effects on the rights of workers, and they were also making the wrongs heard. The power didn't want us to hear the truth, he wanted everyone to bury their heads in the sand, as usual. One night at midnight, these scientists were expelled from the academy. They didn't care about what happened, they punished the person who announced what happened, just like they locked up the journalists who reported their crimes. Just as he had arrested the Republican journalists who had been announced in the case of MIT trucks, leaving it behind to investigate and prosecute the person who committed the crime. Or the complicated relationships that the Minister of Energy had in his e-mails, where he would question the crimes, where he put journalists who deliver e-mails in prison without question. As those who praised ▪ arrested Oğuz Güven, even though a title was deleted fifty-five seconds after the title was dropped while they were running for mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you have any conscience, you can't close your eyes, your mind to what's going on. Until yesterday, you have condemned tens of thousands of people who have been fighting with Ankara's land for the sake of fighting the State of Emergency in different ways, those who have been walking with it, those who have been wet together, those who have walked in the same range, those who have walked in different ways, and the mayors who have been sending money to Pennsylvania are still sitting in their seats. In the heart of Ankara, two people, academic Nuria Gülmen and Teacher Semih Özakça are arriving at the 70th day of their actions as of tomorrow (March 15) in front of the Human Rights Monument on Yüksel Street. Those who were not among you rebelled against your hunger for the rest of their lives, and put their bodies to hunger and death. They melt, they resist. They want you to hear it. They want their jobs back, they want their honor respected. You have subjected Nuriya and Semih to social isolation with your KHKs, making them living dead. They are the voice of tens of thousands of workers whom you have wrongfully fired. Hear this cry to the consciences. How long will you be blind and deaf to this scream the world hears? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit02spe0138par0164	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit03spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0139par0002	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0138par0003	Congressmans, we're moving to the part of the agenda according to the decision made. Now, in accordance with the interim 21st Article (C) of the Constitution, which is included in this section, we will begin the election for the membership of the Judges and Prosecutors' Board. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors will have one member of three members of the Supreme Assembly nominated for membership by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, one member of the three Supreme Court members nominated for each one membership, one member of the three members of the three candidates, one member of the three professors who served in the legal branches of higher education institutions and one member of the three candidates who are nominated for the legal branches of higher education institutions. I'm reading the lists of candidates set by the Constitutional Commission and members of the Justice Commission by the Karma Commission: Candidate List for First Membership of the Supreme Court: Candidate List for Participants 2/2 of the Supreme Court's Membership: Candidate List for Membership of the Supreme Court: Candidate List for Membership Between Prosecutors: Candidate List for Membership Between Teaching Members: Candidate List for Membership Between Lawyers: Candidate List for Membership Between Teaching Members and Lawyers: Voting ballots showing the names of candidates assigned separately for each membership by the Commission have been printed by the presidency, with the candidate's last names organised according to the alphabet order. In order to be elected a member of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the first vote will call for two-thirds of the total number of members, 367 votes. If the first vote fails to conclude the election, the second and third vote will elect candidates for the vote of three-thirds of the total number of members, 330 MPs. In the event that three-in-five majoritys fail, the process of naming members will be completed in the process of attracting names from twice as many candidates of the members who have received the most votes in the third vote. Members of parliament, a five-person commission will be determined by drawing a name for the census and transcript of the vote. The members appointed to name the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Now, I'm doing the name-pulling process...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0140par0042	Mr. President, could there be seven members of the accounting commission to speed up the spread?
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0141par0043	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0142par0044	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0143par0045	I'll listen to you all for a second. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0144par0047	Do you think the commission can get seven members to speed up the count? It's in the way of the economy.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0143par0048	Mr. Bostanci, it is written in the Interior Charter of how many members will be made up of the draft commission. The Civil Charter has ruled that the draft commission will be determined by five members, so it is not possible to form a rating commission in the form of seven members. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0145par0052	Mr. President, we believe that these elections cannot be held today for two reasons. So... first, of course, let me give you our reasons: first, in accordance with the Constitutional Justice Karma Commission, which provided this list to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0143par0053	Let me turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0145par0054	...by following a course contrary to the Council of Turkey's Institution and criminal practices, we believe that the Commission does not agree with the Commission in accordance with the Commission's procedure to create this list, in which a member of the Council of Turkey has been demoted from the Commission, even though he has not resigned. The second issue is that the unsealed referendum held on April 16th, although we think it's legal, we've expressed our claim as the main opposition party, and we've shared it with the General Assembly and with the public. In this regard, our claim that in terms of the outcome of this referendum, in terms of the process, in terms of voting day, in terms of the work and transactions of the YSK has been committed here has not yet been concluded in terms of the legal way, which means our European Court of Human Rights is under way. Therefore, you must return this Commission report. If you can't return it, we'd like to present our assessment of it more clearly to the General Assembly and public knowledge in accordance with the 63rd Article of the Civil Code. We have a request.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0143par0057	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0146par0060	Mr. President, as I mentioned earlier today, the first month of your referendum, April 16th, is complete; it is May 16th. We don't think the process that leads to the referendum and the consequences are legitimate. This will now have two applications to respond: one is the choice of HSK members, and the other is the party presidency. We feel that we do not recognize these illegal results, and that people are still pursuing the votes, using both legal and democratic rights, and so are we. I'm afraid there's been a lot of doubt about the members to be elected here. However, we would also like to state that we find it not legitimate and that we will not take part in the vote, which will serve nothing more than the political judiciary, which is already political. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0147par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0148par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0147par0066	Mr. Bostanci, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0148par0067	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0147par0069	Mr. Botanci, just a second... Congressmans, we're discussing an important matter. Now, Mr. Group Vice President Naci Bostanci will speak. Please, sir, I invite you to silence.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0148par0072	Mr. President, the members of the House Commission are being notified by party groups. Therefore, it is necessary to view it as a fundamental right belonging to party groups. Secondly, in our internal law, the YSK is the final ruling body in such elections, and on April 28th, it has reached its final verdict. It is possible to continue the legal debates politically, but legally, the public vote is over, and it is the duty of the institutions concerned to meet its requirements. The House does its duty in this framework. That's the way we stand. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0149par0075	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0150par0077	We continue to insist on a formal debate, sir.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0149par0078	I haven't made my point on that yet, Mr. Altay, but I've promised all the members of the group who want a word.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0150par0079	No, I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0149par0080	Members of the Parliament, according to the 94th and 64th Articles of the Constitution and the 64th Amendment, it is not possible for me to express my personal opinion or agree in any way on the issues discussed in the General Assembly. Therefore, it is impossible for me to express any opinion in the debate over the legitimacy of the results of the election. However, there is one thing Mr. Altay has expressed, and I want to make a statement about him: İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu has been nominated by the National Movement Party Group for the 1 membership in the Justice Commission's National Movement Party. On this report, the election process was concluded in the 89th Union of the General Assembly, dated 9/5/2017. It is clear that I do not have the authority to save on a decision of the General Assembly, which was concluded in a previous merger as chairman of the session, although the procedure is not in line with the usual process. A General Assembly decision is adopted, with its consequences. Therefore, there is no procedure for the termination of the membership of Mr. Kadir Koçdemir. Here I suggest to my political party groups that the political party groups come together to provide an application unit on this issue, which has come as a basis so far. I'm meeting Mr. Altay's request for a procedural debate, and I'm opening the discussion.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0151par0082	Lehte...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0152par0083	Against...
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0149par0084	Mr. Kubat in favor, Mr. Altay in favor... I'm starting the promise process. The first word belongs to Mr. Doğan Kabbat. Mr. Kubat, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0153par0092	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, in a moment, the HSK elections that we will now hold under the interim Article 21st of the Constitution shall be held together by the Commission for Justice and Constitution, the Karma Commission -- the next number 474 -- have reached a decision and are now in front of the General Assembly, and we will begin the elections shortly after that. Now, the esteemed Republican People's Party deputy leader has made a claim that this report stemming from the exchange of a member of the Justice Commission is legally disabled, that it must be extradited to the Commission. Mr. President has just stated that in the last session, one member of the National Movement Party's Justice Commission, another member of the National Movement Party's Internal Charter 21st Article, as part of the procedure parallelity principle of the second amendment to these commissions, the right to be a member of a political party group, and therefore the right to change its rights to the Parliament, has been approved here in the General Assembly, and the decision of our new friend has been completed by the General Assembly's decision. Thus, there is no violation of any law in the membership of the Justice Commission and the Constitutional Commission. The Commission consists of 52 people, which makes 3/5 32 members. When we look at the election results, we see 34 members, each candidate for a quota, three candidates, 21 members. Even if this is considered contrary -- which is not for me -- such a situation is not even effective. Therefore, there is no procedure for this matter by our President. There is no authority, such as returning the commission report to the Commission. This discussion is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Law. Our president's attitude is in order. With these thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0154par0096	Mr. President, I'm handing it over.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0155par0097	Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0156par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are meeting today at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to elect members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, depending on the outcome of the referendum, which, in fact, the people did not approve of the April 16th unsealed election, which still continues. Dear friends, in our history, there have been elections called "sopaque elections." In our history, the open vote, the secret census, has always been discussed, and unfortunately, the 16 April public vote has already been established as a black mark on our history. The issue of legitimacy of these elections is still under way, while the illegitimate results of the public vote are still under way and in a hurry to select members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the top panel of the judiciary. Dear friends, in the United States of America, when the Senate elects a Supreme Court judge, first a long interview is held on the subcommittee, and if it passes that test, it will also be questioned in front of the Senate and released live. Why? Because let the public see if the candidates who were actually elected there, the judges, are appointed based on merit, are they elected based on loyalty, or are they appointed.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0157par0105	Mr. Tezcan, one moment, sir. Congressmans, I beg you, I once reminded you, there's a big hum in the hall, and I'm having trouble listening to the speaker's speech from the stand. Please, I invite you to silence, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0158par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in this constitutional amendment proposal, almost 90 per cent of the proposal will take effect in the first general and President elections, while I specifically put aside 2 clauses -- some other military judiciary -- into effect immediately. One of them is the Court of Judges Prosecutors. It was arranged in such a hurry that neither the Karma Commission nor the Turkish Grand National Assembly had the opportunity to listen to the candidates, not even given time. Imagine that the understanding that the judge or the prosecutor would not be content with the written examination when they were taking the job, but would not be content with the written examination, and that the top board of judges would elect a member of the Council of Prosecutors, the Assembly, without giving them enough time to listen. Look, all of this suggests that an independent judiciary is not required, but a new process of judgment is being created in the judiciary with a new community-political alliance. We've seen how the previous congregation and political alliance around here has brought the judiciary to its destinations and handed it over to a terrorist organization. Now we see that there's still some unlearned, still unintelligent, still trying to design a trial with new community-political alliances. We, the Republican People's Party, are not going to be part of this illegitimate construction that is meant to be based on the illegitimate results of the unsealed election. We're not going to be part of this illegitimate illegal construction. That's why we're in Parliament, but as part of this illegitimate construction, we're not going to get to the point of voting, we're not going to vote. In this frame, there will be doubts about the judiciary until the debate of legitimacy is resolved, and that wrong tomorrow may cause other bombs to fall on this roof.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0159par0113	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0158par0114	With this misdeeds, he will be able to return to the roof of this coven, unfortunately, as yesterday (July 15th) with the new community-political-religion alliances. We will not be partners in this illegitimate process in front of history and in front of parliament and in front of politics, and we will not vote. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0160par0118	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Congressmans, I expressed my views on the matter before the procedure debate, so there is no new opinion for me to express after the discussion. We'll continue the procedure where we left off. We stayed in the draft committee's election. Now, we're going to name the members of the commission. Mr. Tekin Bingöl, Ankara? No. Mr. Orhan Miroglu, Mardin? Here. Mr. Abubekir Bal, Diyarbakır? No. Mr. Hussein Big Brother, Izmir? No. Mr. Atay Nice, Antalya? Here. Mr. Haydar Akar? No. Mr. Rafet Sezen, Edirne? No. Mr. Hayati Tekin, Samsun? No. Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Mr. Musa Pine, Izmir? No. Mr. Hasan Turan, Istanbul? Here. Mr. Shahap Kavacıoğlu, Bayburt? Here. We've completed five members. There is a five-man Commission for Accounting. I now propose how the vote will be held: from the commission and the clerk members of the government, from the commission, from Adana to Denizli, from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, from İstanbul; from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin to Zonguldak, from Mardin to Zonguldak will mark the name of the member of parliament, including Zonguldak. The named MP will be given seven sealed ballots and seven envelopes. Using the game, the MP will throw envelopes containing ballots into any of the ballot boxes placed in front of the Presidential Court bench. On the ballots, a list of candidates assigned for each membership will be marked in front of the candidate's names -- the square in the cross sign. The ballots will be invalidated with the names of more than one candidate. Each ballot will be evaluated separately. These issues are also listed on ballots as footnotes. The vote on the ballots will be invalidated in case of any sign, signature or defamation that determines who the vote belongs to. The current vote will carry no sign except the choice of times the mark. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Hand over the sealed ballots and envelopes to the members of the clerks who will be used in the first vote. Have the ballots been handed over to the clerk members? Did the clerks do the groupings? There were seven separate groups, weren't there? I'm asking this side: are there seven groups formed? Yeah, it's okay. Congressmans, I'm going to start voting now, but I'd like to remind you that the vote is confidential. It's important for every member of the nation to enter the voting booth and mark the ballot there. In any case, if the ballot is flagged outside the voting booth, I would like to submit to your knowledge that I will renew the vote. I'd like to make it very clear that the members of lawmakers, whose name is not read, do not give the clerks a ballot. The non-named MPs will not go to the clerks. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Congressmans, I repeat, in case there's no misunderstanding, there are seven separate compasses; seven separate compasses will be placed in seven separate envelopes, but they can be thrown into any ballot bucket, of course. [[Votings continued.]] I'm stopping reading here in order to avoid collapse in the voting booths. At the right time, as soon as the crowd is low, we'll continue to read again. Clerk members must no longer give compasses to those other than the members whose name is read. [[Votings continued.]] Congressmans, ballots must be marked in the voting booth. I'd like our MPs to pay special attention to this matter. Unmarked, marked outside the cabin, the ballot is the reason for the re-election. [[Votings continued.]] The members of the clerk's office are not supposed to give ballots to non-read lawmakers, so I remind them. [[Votings continued.]] Congressmans, may I remind you again, the vote is confidential. The MPs must mark the ballot at the ballot booth and put it in the envelope. Marking the ballot outside the voting booth means violation of confidentiality; please, let's abide by that rule. [[Votings continued.]] Congressmans, according to the Court, I see a pile in the right-hand huts, the voting booths, and there's a gap in the stalls on my left. The members of lawmakers who have flagged their name to the clerk and received the ballot will be able to vote in the cabinets on my left.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0161par0161	Mr. President, let them use it open, they can't do it!
tbmm-2017-05-16sit04spe0160par0163	Are there any members who don't use the game? I can see it's not. The vote is complete. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I read the names of the members of the Task Commission once again: Orhan Miroğlu, Mardin; Atay Beşı, Antalya; Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli; Şaap Kavcıoğlu, Bayburt; Hasan Turan, Istanbul. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, I have a report from the Commission for Accounting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first vote of the election for seven memberships in the Judges and Prosecutors' Council was held with a list of candidates for memberships, including 348 members for the selection of the votes used. It's presented with respect. Orhan Miroğlu Atay Nice Emin Haluk Ayhan 1st of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Mustafa Sergeant 5 Vote 2 of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Three of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Candidate List for Membership Between Prosecutors Candidate List for Membership Ali Cengiz Köseoğlu 331 votes Candidate List for Membership Between Lawyers Candidate List for Participants/Agents' Membership Ali Aydın Akpınar 6 votes Omar Faruk Aksoy 3 votes I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-05-16sit05spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're still running for seven members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Two-thirds of the vote envisioned by the Constitution in the first vote was not available for any membership. That's why we're starting the second vote now. In this vote, the candidates who won the vote of 330 MPs, the total number of members, three-thirds of the total number of members, will be selected. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm detecting a five-person Commission for Accounts for the census and transcript of the vote, and I'm conducting a name-pulling process: Ismail Tamer, Kayseri? Here. Cesim Gökçe, Pain? Here. Mehmet Habib Soluk, Sivas? Here. Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı, Kütahya? No. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? No. Mustafa Kose, Antalya? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? No. Mustafa Mit, Ankara? No. Edip Semih Yalçın, İstanbul? No. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? No. Jülide Sarıeroğlu, Ankara? No. Zayid Aslan, Slap? No. Bennur Karaburun, Bursa? No. Sami Cakir, Bigeli? No. Didem Engin, Istanbul? No. Hüda Kaya, Istanbul? No. Yakup Akkaya, Istanbul? No. Fatih Şahin, Ankara? Here. Thus the name-pulling process was performed. Members of the Council of Ministers will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Sealed ballots and envelopes to be used in the second vote have been handed over to the members of the clerk. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Congressmans, the cabins on the left of the bench are empty. There's a number of friends who sign their signatures and get their compasses and envelopes, and they can vote in the cabins on my left. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? Yeah, well, now that all the members have used the vote, the vote is complete. Put the ballots away. Please have the members of the Board of Accounts take their seats. I read again the names of the members of the Task Commission: Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, Ağrı MP Cesim Gökçe, Sivas MP Mehmet Habib Soluk, Antalya MP Mustafa Kose, Ankara MP Fatih Şahin. We're replacing our members of the Board of Accounts, and we're going to begin the sorting process. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second vote for seven memberships in the Judges and Prosecutors' Council was held with a list of candidates for the membership of 348 members in the second vote, including the selection of the votes used. It's presented with respect. İsmail Tamer Cesim Gökçe Mehmet Habib Soluk 1st of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Mustafa Sergeant 11 Oy 2 of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Three of the Supreme Court Memberships. Candidate List for Membership Candidate List for Membership Between Prosecutors Candidate List for Membership Ali Cengiz Köseoğlu 333 votes Candidate List for Membership Between Lawyers Candidate List for Participants/Agents' Membership Ali Aydın Akpınar 6 votes Omar Faruk Aksoy 2 votes Yes, and so we also thank the members of the Commission for Accounting. Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the candidates I will read your name for the following two years have been elected members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors of the Constitution in the second vote. Jafer Ergen, Ali Cengiz Köseoglu, Songül Writer for the 1st member of the Supreme Court, was elected to be a member of the Supreme Court, and Hamit Kobbey for the 3rd member of the Supreme Court. I'm saying good luck. I'd like to thank all the lawmakers, all our employees, all our clerks, the members of the Commission, our experts, the stenographers, everyone. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 17th 2017) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the bill and proposals. I wish you good night, closing the assembly at 00.
