tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, who asked for a comment on the problems of imams run by İSKUR. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues of imams taken as temporary mosque clerks. On this occasion, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0001par0012	Congressmans, the General Assembly is humming, please let's not talk amongst ourselves.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0002par0013	According to the May 12, 2017 announcement of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the application for temporary mosque officials who will be assigned as a quota of imam-neutral staffs under the province's mufti, will be announced by the county muflülms, including general information on the application, examination and placement of examinations. In this framework, it was announced on May 15, 2017, on May 17, 2017, that the interviews were held, that the winners were declared and placed in mosques from May 23, 2017. However, temporary mosque officials were surprised and shocked to learn that they had been employed as a cleaning worker under the Program for Public Benefit, which was run by ISKUR shortly after they began their mission, and that they would be relieved of their duties in December. 4.995 temporary mosque officials are trying to figure out what to do now. Many have taken the temporary mosque worker's exam and won by leaving their current jobs, burning their compensation. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, in response to our question in the budget talks last week we will make you imams, staff imams, proxy imams or paid imams, contract imams. Since imamism is a qualified task, they make a test to determine who is competent and who is not qualified. Mr. Bozdağ is sadly given false and incomplete information. These guys, they're temps, they've already won the imam exam. According to Mr. Bozdağ's statement, they were considered qualified for imamism, placed in placement, and began to imamize. The problem is that after starting an imam mission to these friends, they were employed for six months and as a cleaning worker. In the announcement, however, there is no indication that they were hired as cleaning workers and for six months under ISKUR TYP. This is the announcement of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the announcement of the Conium County Mufti and the announcements for the interview and the placement. See, in the examination announcement, there is a requirement for the application to be an imam-hatip high school or a degree in theology, which scored 50 and more points from the 2016 KPSS DHBT. Winners between 70 and more points from the interview are determined and placed in mosques. Test areas are designated as Koran, religious information and rhetoric. I'm asking: Is there such a test for a janitor, such conditions? The Imam is the office of the Prophet. It is unacceptable that 4,995 people are to be victimized, to be subjected to such irregular acts, not to be sensitive to this task. The error must be returned immediately, and the tests required for imamism must be made to continue with the imam status of 4,995 of our friends who are still imams. Would you look at these applications: there are various types of statuses in the Dianet organization: staffed imams, contract imams, proxy imams, all of which serve in our mosques, all of which are the same, but their status is different, their salary is different, their rights are different, their resources are different. The same is true of the teacher of Koran courses. See, honorary teachers are employed for 600-700 lira a month. All of these practices violate the principles of justice and equality and are incompatible with rights, but this painting does not apply to the Religious Organization. Let it not be forgotten that Al-Hakmah is one of the great ones, and His Holiness commands justice. In both terms of religious service and the efforts of those who provide this service should be taken into account, allowing MPs, temporary and honorary workers to be recruited. Today, we have many mosques without imams, our mosques should not be left without imams. Finally, I'm going to talk about one thing: the cost of heating our mosques has been troubled by our religious officials. The heating costs should be covered by the budget, as well as by the lighting costs. The issue must be resolved immediately in the winter season. We are prepared to support the arrangement as the National Movement Party. My respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Hasan Turan (Islamic) who asked for a comment on the Palestinian visits of Turkey-Palestinian Parliamentary Friendship Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed MPs that is off the agenda of our visit to Palestine. I salute your committee. With 22 deputies led by the Turkish-Palestin Parliamentary Friendship Group, we paid a visit to our Palestinian territory from November 9th to November 12th, especially Jerusalem. First of all, I salute our Jerusalem-loving deputies who have come to visit, and I salute our coven and our nation. You know, on July 14th, Israel's unjust attack on the Holy Lord, our first qiblah, our Prophet's prayer, and his ban on Friday's prayers, which he described as the Qur'an of our great Lord. As a result, the Islamic world, particularly the Palestinian people, stood up. As a result of the glorious and honorable stance of our Palestinian brothers, the Israeli regime had to back down, especially in Turkey, as a result of reactions from all over the world and the Islamic world. In particular, the decision made in Istanbul was effective when our President called the world to Islam, invited the Executive Committee for Islamic Co-operation and invited them to the meeting, and the decisions made in Istanbul helped Israel to take this step back. Within our country, many of our MPs, the heads of our political parties, our NGOs, almost our nation had stood up in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We, the Palestinian and Turkish Friendship Group, expressed our reaction in the highest way in those days, and we said, "We want to go to the mosque and pray on a Friday, show our nation's stand there, express our feelings of solidarity with the Palestinian people." We've made this visit with 22 of our deputies, with the expected normalisation of the field. We also had representatives from our Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party, mostly from the EC PARTY. In this sense, it was also important that both our government's sensitivity to the Palestinian cause and the opposition's sensitivity in that sense, as well as our government's showing a state policy and a perspective on it. After we had prayed in Jerusalem, in the Masjid-i Aksa, in the land of Palestine, in the West Bank, in Ramallah, in Bethlehem, in Al Khalil, and in Cenin. We have studied Turkey's aid to the Palestinian people, infrastructure and infrastructure investments and many activities in the area. In particular, over a million square feet [1 million square feet] in the fetal industrial region, which was created by our president, led by the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey. We've received information from Palestinian authorities. In the Palestinian Legislative Assembly, we met with our brothers, the chairman of the legislature and the MP. Especially because of our request, our brothers from El Conquer and Hamas have welcomed us together in the Legislature that day. We have also observed our support as Turkey for the recent settlement process in Palestine. Of course, Jerusalem is very important to us, the direction of our faith. In this respect, we can't accept the attacks on Jerusalem and Palestine, but we have unfortunately seen and observed that Israel has persecuted the Palestinian Muslims every day as if they were carrying out an evil plan against the Palestinian people. We became angry, moved, and took warning. But we also found that the view that we saw in Palestine showed all of us the cost, even the value, of being a member of a nation, and of being a member of a nation, in the form of a state. We recommend that all our brothers and sisters go in groups, show our nation's stance there, and watch these exemplary landscapes as a solution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With this honor, I salute our great coven and our nation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Turan. The third non-responsibility statement belongs to Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan. Here you go, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0006par0041	Dear President, our dear friends in the hall, all the working friends, I salute you all. I'd like to start by reminding you of a verse from here. Jonah Emre says: ... the promise of the war, the promise of the war, It's a promise to grease the pen vaccine with honey. These are Jonah's verses. Sometimes the word repeats too much. When it's too much again, he may not be able to reach any of those accomplishments, but he keeps saying what's wrong with him. Yesterday, my friend Coral Beştaş actually shared with you what I was going to say about what I'm about to say, but once again, I want to express our concerns to you and to the public about those words. For eight years, I was president of the Society of Modern Lawyers. I've expressed it here before, and I've done it with honor. Like Halit Çelink, it was a community of very valuable lawyers and lawyers that the world knew about, and modern lawyers were the democraticization of law. They built that organization, and I became one of their maintainers. Now my friend Selçuk Koztree, who is doing this task with me, has been arrested. Selçuk Koztreelı is not just a name known to Turkey, he is one of the many lawyers known to many European countries and the world, such as all of my friends who served in this association, who are advocates in the field of human rights, democratism, revolutionary attitudes, progressive behavior. We arrested him yesterday or a few days ago. Together with him, our friends, whose number was over 50, and an important part of the association, were arrested. Dear friends, there is a rule that concerns all public opinion, which the European Convention on Human Rights has guaranteed, as to the right to a fair trial. One of the most important elements of this rule is the right to defend, so it's the duty of the lawyer. The individual often asks the lawyer for help due to a lack of legal knowledge or other impropriety. Especially when people are under arrest, they need the help of a lawyer. The principles regarding lawyers' roles, the principles of the United Nations, as well as our Law of Law, as well as our Constitution, protect lawyers in private, stressing how important this right is for the individual rights and freedoms. Now, I would like to share with you just three articles of these principles, which say: "The governments have the duty of lawyers to perform all kinds of occupational activities without any pressure, obstruction, harassment, or corrupt intervention." It is a duty given to governments. I read the other article: lawyers cannot be identified with their clients or their clients' cases because they perform their duties. Now, my dear congresswoman friends, political litigation is a really difficult business, such as civil rights advocates, and they take up the post in order that there are no legal loss of rights between the state and the people the state sees as guilty, and they walk through a row bridge, but they are never identical to their clients, this protection mission is the government's. Unfortunately, today, the lawyer, whose number has reached 580, is currently under arrest by taking advantage of the psychological environment created by the State of Emergency, the physical environment created by the State of Emergency. When lawyers are thirsty, dear friends, justice ceases, and where justice is silenced, you cannot find the truth, you cannot find the good, evil and darkness prevails. Once again, I would like to stress to you how wrong this work is and invite the judicial authorities to maintain the right to a fair trial. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Congressmans, now, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Last weekend at Mersin, representatives of several NGOs and citizens who claimed Mersin wanted to write no to the Nuclee with their bodies by creating a human chain to draw attention to the threat of nuclear power plants and to warn the government. The governorship did not wait until Friday until the last moment, although environmentalists had asked for a written application to the governor's office 12 days earlier, and on the grounds, the governor said he would not be able to provide security, and made an excuse for the State of Emergency. On November 10th, however, the same governorship secured 7,700 people who met for a similar event. No one has the right to make the state look helpless, saying that citizens who say no to nucleere can't guarantee their safety. The Mersinites will follow the will of Ataturk, and continue to take care of Mersin.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0007par0060	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of National Education: 20,000 of our 450,000 teachers waiting for the appointment in July last year were appointed as contract teachers, and they were happy to be able to bring bread to their homes, even under contract. Although four months have passed since their appointment, many teachers have said they have not been appointed because their security investigation has not been completed. These young people are in a difficult position because of the extended security investigation and this uncertainty. Can't a security investigation be carried out after those assigned to the mission? How many of the teachers whose first appointment was made in July were not launched because the security investigation was not completed? Are you satisfied with the appointment of 20,000 teachers with the 2017 KPSS? We demand that more teachers be appointed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0010par0066	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0011par0068	According to World Health Organization data, eight of the 10 dirtiest cities in Europe are in Turkey. That's a very scary ratio. Istanbul is the dirtiest metropolis in Europe. It is also evident that nature and forested areas during the AKP period played an important role in looting and profiting. The AKP governments have not only stoned Istanbul for the sake of the runt, there is almost no place for our people to enter the sea and breathe in all the coastal parts of our country. Here's Yassia, where he cemented a single green area above the AKP as if he had sworn not to leave grass on it, after he opened Longgöl and zoning from the best shade of green to the gray of concrete. I call upon our Prime Minister, who destroys trees in his own country, but when he goes to America, who walks in parks and gardens, your conscience does not ache.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0010par0071	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0012par0073	Mr. President, farming in our country is so difficult. In our districts of Denizli Serinhisar, Ayaz, Yaten, Kalmetil, Kosapınar started to take action against those who farmed and farmed their fields, as well as how to build crews because their tractors became operational. If the farmer had money, he'd pay the troops anyway. Given that the Deputy Minister and Denizli MP are from Serinhisar district, we demand an immediate solution. Rest assured, we won't be able to breathe in this country if we don't stop torturing the farmer. You have to protect the farmer who's doing a good job. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0013par0076	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0014par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I saw the name of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Turkey across the parliament changed to the IRS of the Republic of Turkey. Am I surprised, no. You've made a good decision with that change of name, and I congratulate you. We know there's no government, there's no ministry. There's a flow, and we know it. I congratulate you for confessing with such open heart, by changing the name of the farmer, the officer, the worker, the tradesman, the pensioner, the orphan, the poor, and by changing the name of the ministry. Good luck to the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0013par0080	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0015par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. We need to look for the truth with information. In a dark barn, the Indians gathered those who had no knowledge of the elephant before. To satisfy their curiosity, they each tried to understand what the elephant looked like with their hands. Every man who touched the elephant's ear, foot, trunk, and back tried to describe the elephant as he wanted to understand it. One of them didn't hold the other one, and they had a falling out. Because they didn't have the light to see the truth. As he put it, the eyes of the heart are like hands and palms, and the palms are like palms, and the palms of the palms are not able to hold the whole elephant. Everyone came up from their own window, and interpreted according to it, and differed. But the truth was all the pieces. Had they any light or knowledge, they would have known the truth before they differed. We need to approach matters with knowledge, not ideology.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0016par0085	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0017par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 600 qualified schools in the upper secondary school installation system to be tested. 120,000 of the most successful students in the 10-percent tranche will be placed in these schools. There are 193 project schools among 600 qualified schools. These include 170 imam-hatips, 23 of which are long-standing schools such as Istanbul Male and Kabataş High Schools. They also put quotas for entering science and social sciences high schools from qualified schools, which is the biggest problem. High schools of science and social sciences have a five-grade limit, not in imams. In this case, there are 120,000 students in the 10 per cent, 55,000 of which will be placed in the science, social and prepared classes of Anatolian upper secondary schools, while 65,000 students will go to imam-hati. In particular, small settlements leave no choice but imam-gap. Another problem is that a single test at the end of the year is at risk of increasing test stress for students who want to enter selective schools. The solution is to increase the number of secondary schools that provide qualified education...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0018par0091	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. 38 teachers were unjustly removed from their duties at the Bursa Zeki Müren Fine Arts High School, which is part of the project. Students who wanted to take care of their teachers wanted to file a petition to the Finnish National Education Directorate, but their petitions were not accepted, and the students wanted to protest, saying, "We can't play these instruments if you take our teachers from us in front of the principal's office with the instruments they brought with them, but they weren't allowed to do that either. EDUCATION-OPTIM-Birza Province President Özkan Rona invited the students to the union building, where the students performed their musical activities. We're now learning that Mr. Rona, the President of Education and Development, has also been condemned. He's demanding that the wrongful appointments be stopped immediately, and I'm condemning the reprimand for Rona from here. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0020par0096	Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0021par0098	Mr. President promised to direct at least 2 million of the 10 million tourists who arrived to Antalya on 13 November 2015, as part of the Burdur Lake Action Plan and the participation of representatives and NGOs, Mr. Minister Eroglu Burdur, as part of the Natural Tourism Master Plan, to Burdur. He also stressed that to save Burdur Lake, the quality of water must first be increased by the treatment facilities. It has been two years, and we are looking at it today, and they are trying to save Burdur Lake, let alone Salda Lake, and take it away from us. Finally, my question to the Minister is, where are the two million tourists you promised, Mr. Secretary? Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0020par0100	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0022par0102	Mr. President, it is my great pleasure and pleasure to take this meaningful day, which is the 34th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute you with the warmest of feelings. The Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus is the most meaningful work of the Turkish Cypriot struggle for existence. He proved to the world thirty-four years ago that he would not compromise his right to determine his own future, that he was determined to continue his difficult but honorable struggle, and that he crowned the historic battle by declaring the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on 15 November 1983. I give thanks to our veterans, Mehmetchik and Mujahideen, who are martyrs for the existence of the Turkish Cypriot, who have our values in unity and unity. Happy Northern Cyprus Republic Day, November 15th, to all of us.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0020par0104	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0023par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Science is my request to the Minister of Industry and Technology and to the Prime Minister. Five companies have been assigned by the president to build domestic cars. Many of our provinces are willing to build the automobile factory, where five companies are suitors, but as of the location and port, I think the Aegean Region is the best place to build this factory. In the first place, I request the establishment of a new automobile factory in the Aegean Region, including Izmir, Manisa, Aydın, Uğur, these provinces, and I stress to Mr. Secretary that the region is in need of employment support. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0024par0109	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0025par0111	Mr. President, at the weekend, we visited the Palestinian Parliament with 22 members of the Turkish-Palestinian Interparacy Group, the ancient city Jerusalem, and the Masjid-i Aksa, which was considered sacred by the three major religions. We went to Bethlehem and Cenin, where we saw the drama of the 40-year-old Palestinian refugee camp in Al Halil. We witnessed that all Palestine was under siege and persecution of Israel. Palestine, which has been occupied for over half a century, is a common wound that bleeds for all Muslims. The Palestinian people are prisoners in their own territory. As our President says, it is not only the duty of Palestinian children to take care of Palestine, but it is the common duty of all Muslims. I always express our support that an independent Palestinian state, whose capital is Jerusalem, should be established immediately, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0024par0112	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0026par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The district of Niğde Province has 30,000 inhabitants. The state hospital here has no chief physician, no obstetrician and no general surgeon. It was also said that the dialysis unit would be opened a year ago, and the dialysis center has not been opened until now, although patients hope to. Citizens in the center of the district, villages, and towns have to go to the headquarters of Niğde, 70km away. There's a serious victimization in that sense. The opening of the dialysis centre at once is requested to repair the doctor's deficit. Our farm district is usually a large area of agriculture and is widely distributed. I call upon the government and the authorities to consider the health of the people of this district to address the medical deficit. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0027par0118	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0028par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 80th anniversary of the execution of Seyit Reza and his friends. I couldn't deal with your lies and tricks, which is a problem for me, but I didn't kneel to you, so I want to say to Seyit Reza and his friends that I bow before the memories of those who lost their lives in the massacre of Dersim. It's Writer's Day in prison again. Unfortunately, there are no intellectuals in our country who aren't oppressed, who don't go through prison. The current government continues this tradition at full speed, continuing pressure on those who oppose it, who do not think as it does, or rather don't. 150 journalists, writers, are under arrest in our country today. This painting is not an acceptable situation in democratic countries. But let's not forget that as long as you continue this persecution, you can't silence the politicians who are going to rub your face in it, the writers who are going to reflect on your pen. But you can trap their bodies, never their thoughts.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0029par0123	Finally, Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0030par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Health: there are no neuroscientists at the Centipede State Hospital. Three specialists are on their way from the skewered Etphal Hospital. They're going back to Hush Etfal Hospital this weekend. And there's no neurologist at Babaeski State Hospital. There are two neuroscientists at the Lüleburgaz State Hospital. One of them had a baby six months ago, and she was on maternity leave, and now she's reported. That leaves only one neuroscientist. Should one neurologist look for Luleburgaz, Babaeski, or 40lari State Hospital? It's been like this for 18 months. One doctor's been on and on for 18 months. Who can stand it? Are we looking for a cure when our doctors commit suicide, or are we looking for a cure when our patients die? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0031par0128	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, in order, I'm going to give my word to the members of the group, where they are. Mr. Lightning, are you going to speak? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0032par0133	Thank you. The date 15 November 1983 was a major turning point in Turkish Cypriots' political life and a day when they declared their struggle to the world by forming a state. The Turkish Cypriot Federation Assembly approved the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and its declaration of independence during an extraordinary session on 15 November 1983. I celebrate the 34th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, with the grace and gratitude of all our martyrs and veterans. I ask for the mercy of our Cypriot martyr, Pilot Genghis Tokel, and of all our martyrs, especially the founding President Rauf Denktash. Mr. President, another important issue is that families of military school students who have been closed have visited the Turkish Grand National Assembly on Tuesday and visited groups of all political parties. Many of these students' parents are civil servants and are still on duty. Some of them are police children, some of them are sergeants, petty officers, and some of them are colonels. The future of these children is uncertain because the school is closed, even though their parents are on duty. These families, if they have a security investigation, if they have a crime, they have to be treated accordingly, or if they're going back to school, or if they're going to get another job, they can't get another job right now, and no one's going to hire them. In this regard, the Interior Ministry must conduct security investigations of all closed military school students and arrest them if they have crimes; if they are not guilty, they cannot return to school, at least they should be able to work in the market, and the access to the SGC must be opened. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0033par0137	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0034par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers today are the 80th anniversary of the execution of Seyit Reza and his friends, who were executed in a manner that had been passed down in history. At that time, those who wanted to execute Seyit Reza, and those who executed him, made an exemplary decision. Syed Reza has been cleared of his people's conscience before history today. However, those who shrink their age to execute Seyit Reza are condemned in the conscience of our peoples, who, along with him, grow old to execute his son. We learned from Syed Rezas as a historical heritage not to kneel before the tyrant. In that sense, with Seyit Reza and his friends, I once again remember those who were murdered on the lecture site. Mr. President, on November 3rd, we learned that three Turkish workers working in a Libyan power plant were abducted by armed men. On November 4th, a day later, the prime minister said he had called the president of the Libyan Presidential Council and had received help, a promise. However, after more than ten days of that day, there has been no statement from the government or the Prime Minister regarding the fate of these kidnapped workers. We would especially like to state that we expect a statement from the government on the nature of the initiatives in this matter. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers; the Climate Change Performance Index 2018 was announced, and Turkey ranked 47 degrees in 56 countries, with its report card among 56 countries among very bad countries.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0035par0145	I'll give you an extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0034par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey, which is among the very bad countries in the Climate Change Performance Index, is watching as it speeds up climate disasters with concrete and asphalt, while it continues to import fossil fuels that are expensive and change climate negatively. At the same time, according to the World Health Organization's data, eight of the 10 most polluted cities are in Turkey. But those who did not guarantee buying coal plants like Turkey, instead of policies on asphalt and concrete investments, gave priority to renewable energy investments. What's important here is that it's not a ranking race; it's important that we, along with our country, fulfill our ecological sensitivity and responsibility to the world. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0036par0151	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0037par0154	Mr. President, my fellow MPs, on July 20, 1974... the Turkish Armed Forces entered Nicosia on August 14th. We say only one thing against American imperialism: Let them not cast shadow, we do not ask any other favor. The promise of the Republic of Turkey came true here, and it protected its brothers, its descendants against all kinds of barbarism there, and it tried to lay the foundations of an independent country. There has been a period of years when the gains in Cyprus went hand in hand, when there was desperation in the negotiations process, when the islands were seized, but Turkey remained silent. Our victory that day, our victory by war, by the blood of our martyrs, is slipping away every day, both the games of imperialism and the inability of our government. Today, it has been avoided even to speak about our rights to Cyprus. It's not an agreement at the negotiating table, it's time for hope to come to fruition. So we need a firm stance to ensure that Turkey is a stable and powerful state against the world, the recognising of our gains, the recognition of our rights and laws on the islands.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0036par0156	Here's your extension.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0037par0157	It is time to raise the head that we bow with Cyprus when it is said that we stand upright everywhere. Our family members there need to contribute to that. Turkey's interests and the interests of the Turkish Cypriot Republic are one, and this process is a process for them and for us, a reputation, independence, and the existence of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot Republic. For him, he calls on power to maintain this stance, and after all this time, we give thanks and thanks to our statesmen, who made this decision with him, and to all our fallen people.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0036par0158	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0038par0161	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have an expert sergeant who was injured today in a shootout with terrorists in the Elezkirt countryside, who later became a martyr, and I ask God's mercy on him, our nation's head. I celebrate the government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and all Turkish Cypriots on the occasion of the 34th anniversary of the Turkish Cypriot Republic, founded on November 15, 1983. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to Dr. Fazil Küçük, the founding President Rauf Denktas, and to all the sons of his country who lost their lives in the Battle of Peace of Cyprus, 1974. Again, we are grateful to our late Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit and Professor Dr. Necmettin Erbakan, who opened the way to independence and freedom for the Turkish Cypriots, and to our late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and our late Foreign Minister Fatin Rügügül, who signed the London and Zurich Accords, which provided the legal basis for this operation. I congratulate again on the founding anniversary of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is the main Turkish Cypriot homeland of the Turkish Cypriots, saying that Turkey is always on the side of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and will continue to help the Turkish Cypriots live in peace, peace and security. The talks held on the island -- as a garanteur state of the Republic of Turkey -- are not a compromise or a twist in the neck of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, but talks are being held. Turkey has not made any concessions to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's current rights so far, but it won't, and it's a good point to emphasize that. And we don't bow our necks to anyone. Another, here, unfortunately, one of the speakers used an unfortunate statement.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0039par0165	I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0038par0166	You may criticize the policies of the EC PARTY government, but this government is not an illegitimate government. He's elected by the votes of the nation, he's in power. Every time we get to the polls, everyone decides their policies, people make an assessment. For him, the AK PARTY government, which came to power by 49.5 per cent, is a legitimate government, which came to power by the votes of the nation. The government is not illegitimate by saying "Gayrimşru." If you want to come to power, you'll work harder, you'll talk about your policies in the chest, people will appreciate it, you'll come to power. I couldn't win, tu poop. So nothing disappears from the legitimacy of a government. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0039par0168	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0040par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0039par0170	Mr. Durmaz, I'll promise you later.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0040par0171	But I'm on the Plan and Budget Commission, if you'll give me an appreciation, where the Ministry of Interior budget is being discussed.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0039par0172	All right, get back in the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0040par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. This school was turned into an imam-hatip school in Tokat. The hero of the Salvation War, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his heroic comrades, is the murder of the Prophet Mustafa Sabrik, a traitor named after Mustafa Sabri, the founder of our country, and the founder of the republic and founding values. The result of our persistent meeting with Mr. Minister of National Education has been returned from this error as of yesterday. The name of that traitor will be removed, and it will be decided to be named after Petty Officer Jakub Akdağ, a heroic son of Tokat, who was killed in a treasonous attack while he was in command of a police station in Baykan district of Siirt Province. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0041par0179	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, MP of Kars, has reached our presidency on 15/11/2017 as to his resignation from the Human Rights Review Commission. It's for your information. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (15/11/2017), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The proposal for the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (10/548) to open parliamentary research is proposed on Wednesday (March 15/11/2017), in the part of the Parliamentary Review and Assembly Review, in which Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya and his friends will meet in a joint meeting Wednesday (January 15/11/2017) to determine the measures to be taken to prevent further destruction of their field of mera. To explain the motive of the proposal, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the proposed Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya is Mr. Mevlüt Karakaya. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0042par0201	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the progress of the nationalist Action Party Group to prevent the destruction of the field we've given. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, the most land losses in the Republic period have unfortunately been in the meadows. Our meras have taken on more than they can carry, and we've put on a lot of loads. The main reason we're experiencing today is because we're so hard on our meras that we can't avoid a lot of natural events and disasters. The most important reason for natural disasters such as erosions, landslides, floods, floods, tornados, is these loads or reforms we haven't done. We said it was the greatest loss in the Republic. In 1940, 20 years after the mera area, which was 44,200,000 hectares, according to data alone, we see that it fell to 28 million,700,000 hectares in 1960, and today to 14,600,000 hectares. After years of unsupervised, extreme, unconscious grazing, our meadows have begun to deteriorate and remain unrenewed. In the past 45 years, the area of the mera area has suffered the biggest loss is the East Anatolian region. Friends, of course, when the mera fields have not been rehabilitated, while they have not been able to restore themselves, unfortunately, we are doing all kinds of actions to change those qualities of existing mera. Just last night, we made a change in Article 54 of Bill 502, Article 4312, Article 14 of the Law on Mera. According to this change, we voted for a bill, a bill, a bill that would allow the establishment of organised industrial zones, industrial areas, technology development zones and free zones to be built in the areas of the mera, to further expand the structures of the free zones. Both public institutions, local governments, and the private sector, if they want to invest in a new investment, the first thing they do is stare at the field, and they want to make these investments around here. Due to lack of Mera fields, instant food is needed. Dear friends, 30 per cent of the feed needs of the 13 million major population today -- even in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia -- are up to 70 per cent -- are produced from mera. Mera are not only bait fields, but areas that preserve our land's existence by preventing water and wind erosion, which increase our soil efficiency, creating habitats for various animals of prey and wildlife, which enrich our base water and streams as water collection basins, which are a source of fresh air. Dear lawmakers, as in many areas today, one of the main reasons why we don't get any results in the price regulatory of agricultural products is, you know, the support for agriculture and especially the neglect of animalism. If we really want to feed our citizens meat at affordable prices, like in other developed countries, like in Europe, we can only do it with approaches that would call it import-oriented, market-oriented measures, not stubborn production. It's not just an investment in the Mera area, it's an investment in the area, it's an added value, but if these meras are destroyed... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We think we can understand the importance of this by considering the social damage we've suffered. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0043par0211	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. The second speaker on behalf of groups on behalf of the Council is Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0044par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers and fellow workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, our meadows are particularly clearly reduced to 14 and a half million hectares today, especially from the numbers given earlier. The degradation and destruction of the mera fields also kills our animalism, while, on the other hand, it also destroys the habitat of many plants, living creatures, animals. In the past, a businessman's meeting with the Minister of Agriculture at the time -- how could the merch be the common area of the people? -- expressing how Turkey would fly if it opened to industry, he showed the AKP government's approach to the fields. The AKP's government saw both the industrial reform package and the areas of industrialisation as an area of industry, both in the bag and in the law yesterday. On the one hand, the AKP, who coveted our mera fields, our coastal areas, our olive groves, has unfortunately brought the extent of the damage this country has done to its laborer, its worker, its farmer. Today, the narrowing of the mera fields and the narrowing of agriculture again have led to the death of animalism in particular. The lack of sufficient grass in livestock, the lack of straw, has led to the use of ready bait in Turkey, and the use of ready bait is actually causing the farmer to triple its cost to the manufacturer. Dear friends, our mera fields are common property of the public. Mera fields, not only for livestock, but as I've just said, are the flora, fauna area of many plants, and for us humans, a source of fresh air is a source of clean water. From that point on, we have to reform, improve. On the one hand, we are narrowed down, and on the other hand, we have been especially killed in the area by pedestrian bans, and today we are now getting meat from Serbia. On the one hand, when we do these things, it's an industrial area where this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say the farmer will kill the animalism of this country, and I say we will support a study on it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0045par0226	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Mr. Koksal, you have a request for a statement. I assume you can't get into the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0046par0231	Mr. President, citizens have been victimised by the gatherings of the villages of Afyonkarahisar Province, Yumruca, Sorkun, Saltik, Kazka, Emirhisar and Kızılca. Citizens say they are not opposed to massing, but because of the unsolicited collection, many fields today have become unusable. It's not a citizen's field, it's not a tractor, it's not even a ladle. Farmers who live there cannot sow in these fields. The citizen, unfortunately, has found no way to express his victimhood. Therefore, we demand that the victims of the citizen's victims be rehabilitated with large business machines and compensated for this year's losses.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0045par0232	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Now, on behalf of the group, the other speaker is Nüğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0047par0240	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it's possible that the lawmakers who are here on the mera may not think differently because our living areas and the existence of the future depend on them. Sadly, in the early years of the Republic, the fields of mera and meadows, which make up 56 percent of our country, have been reduced to 19 percent. Our common thought is to protect the fields of mera, but we destroy the fields of industrialization and wrong urbanization. Destroying the mera fields is like having a person shoot themselves in the foot, because when the mera area is destroyed, livestock gets nervous, and livestock declines, you have to buy imported meat from abroad; you have to go and buy the hay from Bulgaria. And thus you go away from the truth of the land, and make the land self-sufficient out of its wantiness. With that understanding, we need to quickly change our mistakes in practices such as meras and other farming, agriculture, and transform them. Especially since we don't have a planned view at any point, the country's victims are increasing. See, the laws that create negativity about mera fields pass so easily, that we can then protect the mera fields. We say, "We destroy them and we protect them." We're trying to reform, where we're trying to reform, where we're going to get results, where we're going to change, where we're going to reform. Agriculture and animalism are in serious trouble under the country's conditions. The main reason why we're getting 15 million tons of raw food in the average year today is because we don't take care of our needs. The area you call Mera -- as our friends have just pointed out -- is a habitat, and you're destroying the creatures there with it. As we have destroyed the plant, the plant, the living, and the good that our people have done there, you are making the country's assets and values visible to you, leaving them in a narrow space, in the hands of a few investors. The way to get away from that understanding is to take possession of them, to protect them, and to support the work that is to be done about them. In that sense, we support the proposal. Many of our friends from the Republican People's Party have motions for parliamentary research to address the situation of the Meras. It seems that our country has made its future even darker by destroying its meadows, destroying its fields, leaving livestock and farming unclaimed. Let's not take away the future of our children. In this matter, at least by investigating the situation of the meras as Congress, once again, I say we warn the government, the authorities, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0048par0246	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0049par0251	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. First of all, in the western counties of Antalya, I wish our farmers and our people well because of the great disaster that took place two days ago in Kash, Demre, Kumluca. Our state has shown its size again, and our President, our Prime Minister, and our ministers are particularly interested in it. I hope all wounds will be healed soon. Our total field of mera is 14.6 million hectares in our country. From 2002 to today, 543 million resources have been transferred for the detection and compensation of mera and reform and amenagement projects. The identification of 10.9 million hectares of this 14.6 million hectares of mera area, the estimate of 6.6 million hectares, and the allocation of 3.6 million hectares has been completed. Most of our country is built on the basis of animalism. In our livestock, the most important cost is bait costs. Highly rude oaths are the easiest and cheapest of all places. With the reforms and amenagement projects that have been implemented by our ministry, it is intended to increase the efficiency and quality of grass in our fields and increase their ability to shoot weed and make our trades sufficient for our country's animalism. Dear MPs, the most important issue in Turkey is property. Especially in 1937, the Ministry of Forestry said that in five years, cadastro work would be finished. These studies have been done, but there has been a major incompatibility between the 2000s. Especially with this mera, in broad areas, some of the woodland, the machisculinity and the corrupt forests, appear to be forest areas. In these areas, we also have a plan to graze with the work we've done in recent years -- especially under the older forests and in broken machisms -- to open the way for our livestock. Of course, these studies are very useful, and we care very much about the mera. The important thing is, we have to make good field classification, we have to protect our meadows, we have to protect our forests, we have to protect our farmland. It starts at the top; if we can't protect our meadows well, we'll be burdened in our forests, and if we can't protect our forests, we'll destroy the lower farmland. And the most important thing is that in the work we've done -- especially in the forest law -- we've named the rock, the rock, the grass, even the forest, but on the other side, our first-class farmland is gone, and we need to get ahead of it. I salute your entire delegation with respect and love with these thoughts and feelings. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0050par0259	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Beştaş, you're in the system, but please.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0051par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, in a matter that we've always expressed and never came up with a solution, I've been promised torture practices in prisons, practices of abuse. Right now, in front of me, I've only received ten separate letters today, and a fax from my hand. This came from Kayseri Prison. A chief named Genghis Aslan, who was sent from Adana to Karaman, and from Karaman to Kayseri, speaks of the practices there, and there is not enough time. Again, very serious applications are coming in from Tarsus Prison, Elazığ Prison and Breach Prison every other day. Last week, we said, and it's getting more and more high. I mean, we need to find a solution to this problem in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, because prisons are government-controlled, controlled areas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Their personal safety, their personal health, depends on the authorities, and I'd like to express it from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0052par0269	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Members of the Parliament, I submit to you the National Movement Party's proposal for the group: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0053par0274	Sustained, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0054par0275	It's been done.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0052par0276	No, it's not accepted; we're counting one by one. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 15/11/2017 (now) Wednesday (now), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 15 November 2017, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu and Mus MP Ahmet Yıldırım gave their talks to Seyit Rıza, Saidi Nursi (Kurdi) and Sheikh Sait on Wednesday (5895 rows) in order to locate the burial sites of their friends and extradite them to their families. To explain the motive of the proposal, Mr. Hishyar Özsoy is a member of the Bingöl MP on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group with proposals. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0055par0291	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have spoken of this matter many times before on the floor of the House to be identified by Seyit Reza, Saidi Nursi, or by Saidi Kurdi, Sheikh Sait and his friends. Our party's various questions have been made about the matter, they've had research proposals, but it seems we haven't made much progress on the subject. Dear friends, 80 years ago, Seyit Reza and his friends -- the age of Seit Reza was reduced, his son's age was raised -- were executed, and -- friends, we're talking about the dead, if you could just listen to me for a moment. Mashallah...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0056par0294	You go ahead, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0055par0295	Eighty years ago, Seyit Reza... A few months ago, in Ankara, you know, we couldn't bury Hatun Tuğluk's body here, there were very ugly attacks. He's a major. She was born a few years after the lecture, the mother of Aysel Tuğluk, whom many of you know. Now they kill there, and there is no grave in my class. A 75-80-year-old aunt is dying in Ankara, and we can't bury her, she's polluting the land. We had to get her out of there. No lies, no slander. The Home Secretary isn't telling the truth, I was there myself. We've heard insults about the ugliness we've never heard in our life, and we're shocked. Honestly, they weren't talking, they weren't yelling, I'm telling you, they were howling! Blasphemy, insult, physical attacks... 30 or 40 lawmakers, Aysel Hanım, got out of prison, got there, got insulted by her mother. Anyway, we got it out of there, we sent it to Dersim. If Ankara doesn't buy it, if this land doesn't accept it, we sent it to Dersim land. But we sent him there, and there -- as I said -- he's been searching for Seyit Reza's bones for 80 years, his grandchildren still can't find them. Dear friends, there's a fight, there's a war, there's a war, there's all these insults, these disrespects, they're not too old; they've got an 80, 90-year-old history. Look, there's a famous scene in the movie Call. I'm talking about the movie "The Message" about the early days of Islam. There will be war, they will kill each other, the Muslims and those who oppose them, then they will stop fighting -- you see -- they'll see the scenes -- they'll give each other time to take each other's dead bodies, they'll take them away, they'll bury them, and then they'll go to war again. War, of course, we don't want it to happen, but even in tribes, when you look at it -- it's called the first thing, we're not tribal states, we're not primitive -- there's respect for the dead, no matter what their crime, no matter what their sin. We've talked many times about these graves, especially these three individuals' graves, not just for their families, but for Kurds, religiouss in Turkey, very symbolic, very precious graves for the Alevis, we want to find this. Now why did I tell you about Hatun Tuğluk? Look, when you don't deal with that date, with that bloody date, where is Syed Reza's grave, where is his body, where is his body, where is his body, where is his body? When you do the math well, you do the research and you don't build it fairly, 80-year-old Hatun Tuğluk is not buried in Ankara, and people see that right in them. We tried to reach the Home Secretary for exactly two hours, there are 35-40 MPs; there are Ahmet Turk; there are other friends. There we will defend, and there we will find the will of Mother Hatun, and she will say: "Let my daughter come near, let her come and visit me in front of my house." Look, you have buried me in Ankara, which she didn't want to go to. Then the Home Secretary came out, denied all of us, he said: "There is absolutely no blasphemy, there is no insult, there is no insult, there is no... and we are 40 MPs there, so let him have a piece of respect for us, and let him say... there are so many fellow trustees, we're not all going to lie with one mouth. Then he left, took pictures, you know, with the famous picture frame. This is our Home Secretary, and here in the middle, funerals that were insulted like this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't know how much we can demand in these conditions, but the matter of ending this insult to the dead and finding these people, these precious people's burial places, is a great responsibility to this House tomorrow, even if not tomorrow. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0057par0304	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0058par0308	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point. For one thing, I refuse to accept the expression: "Finish what has been done to the dead. " I mean, we can't accept the introduction of something as if we were encouraging it or even implying it. In no way were we to accept what was done there at Aysel Tuğluk's deceased mother's funeral, and we have expressed it in a way. These events, this is a provocation, this is provocation. A deceased human can be buried anywhere within the territory of the Republic of Turkey, but it's not right that a handful of provocateurs in there cost a whole country. However, as soon as these events began to take place, the Home Secretary, Mr. President, gave all the instructions that needed to be done, whatever it took, the family's demands were followed to the end and their demands were met. Look, no country boy would want that look, but there's a provocateur there. It's a purpose, a purposeful provocation of those who want to stir people up, who want to undermine this empathy between people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please open it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0057par0311	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0058par0312	Please, let's not generalize this as we approach the events and use statements to hold us responsible here. We don't accept that, that's not true, because our approach to the matter is what I just expressed. We don't accept what has been done, we can't accept it in any way. He is a citizen, a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey who lost his life. He has the right to be buried where he wants to be. We reject what has been done, and we will follow it further. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0057par0314	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0059par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0057par0317	You're in the system. I can open it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0059par0318	No, it's not for him, it's for me. Our teacher gave a speech, almost no comment, over an incident that happened. However, the speaker described our friend's speech as provocation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0060par0320	I didn't say his was provocatation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0059par0321	This is an open taunt according to the Civil Code 69, and we want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0061par0322	You're going to talk?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0059par0323	Mr. Ozsoy will only speak.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0062par0324	Mr. President, did I use the term "provocation"? Please, not like this!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0061par0325	So what's done is provoked, he said.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0062par0326	Mr. Lightning, what you're trying to do now is provocation, okay? You're the one who provokes, you're the one who provokes. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0063par0327	You used the concept of provocacation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0064par0328	Are you speaking for the provocateurs?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0065par0329	You're the one taking pictures with them.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0066par0330	Mr. Ozsoy, please.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0067par0333	Now, dear friends, look, I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart, people could have died that night, because we were there. The cemetery is empty, over those walls, there are people screaming and swearing and going in, and we don't know who it is in the dark. Look, the Home Secretary was called for two hours, we were there; Osman Bey was looking for him, Sýzý Bey was looking for him. The governor's wanted, we can't reach the governor; we're looking for the police commissioner, we can't reach him. It's only 30 to 40 police officers there, and it's going up -- 20, 30, 40, 300 -- and the number just keeps going up. I mean, there weren't a lot of people there, there were, like, 100 people, half of them, and it could have been something else. These aren't simple things, so there'll be big provocations. Now, we, of course, will have reviews. Look, he could come out without knowing a picture of a Home Secretary and a person who insulted all those people and all those dead people, so he can't even know it, so if there are so many broken people after he's gone out, then if I've caused such resentment without my intention, he might be able to say "I'm sorry" and say "I'm sorry" and "I'm sorry." Beyond, that's not what we're talking about, what I'm trying to say is that it's been a long time, for a hundred years, there's been some sort of insult to the dead. It'll happen today when we can't deal with him. They also kept Taybet İnan's funeral waiting in the middle of the street for seven days; they did not bury it; we are talking about old people. And when we open our mouths, we want to point out that there's no such thing as support for terror, support for terrorism, betrayal. But the funerals of Seyit Reza, Sheikh Sait, and Bediuz Zayztime Saidi Kurdi, their inheritances are in the middle; at least their graves need to be found and delivered to their families. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0068par0339	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0069par0340	Mr. President, I demand word again on 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0068par0341	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0069par0344	Now, Mr. President, I did not refer to the speaker's speech as provocation. Look, it's a political language, it's a false language. We can do politics, but the expressions to separate people aren't the right words. I said it yesterday in my speech. I didn't call Mr. Hishyar's speech provocation. I told him that we didn't accept the incident there, that he was a provocation. I described it as a provocation trying to damage people's empathy. But we can't generalize them in the whole community. If we generalize it, then that's what we're going to do, we're going to put butter on the bread of those who make it happen, that's what I'm saying. People from history... Look, look at the graves in Turkey, people are lying next to each other, people are building a family institution, people are being neighborly, people are living together. But to separate him from a certain group every day, the people of that group... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, sir, if you turn on the microphone, I'll finish.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0070par0350	It's automatic, Mr. Mush, I'm not cutting it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0069par0351	I know.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0070par0352	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0069par0353	Using a language that's part of a certain group that's always trying to separate people from a certain ethnicity... look, it's no use to this country, it's no use to the people who do it, it's no use to the people who do it, it's no use to the people who do it. How can we combine these 80 million more than what we've been talking about, what we've been saying, and how can we do that by dividing any group? Wrong, if there is, we know how to say wrong. The photo... Mr. Home Secretary also said: I didn't know it was him, but we found out later. In this respect, please, some of the things that we say... we don't say it from the heart, it's not as if we're saying it so we can do it like we're saying it; for our values, we're saying it according to the principles of our political party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0071par0356	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0072par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in particular, those who run the state and are responsible, in the flow of normal life, when the political line dominates the country through a language that has camped the community and led this country itself, there are many who take part in it, and there are many who take part in it, and when they get up and sign off on inhumane practices and there are no one who can defend it, I'm not saying that the meaning and the effect of getting up and expressing sadness is very low; it doesn't exist, but it's getting very little. The point is, before these events happen, before any of us can defend these events, I'm not saying camping in this country, but a language that can increase tolerance, brotherhood, unity, the rule of this country in the first place. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0073par0362	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will now speak on the group proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0074par0370	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. The People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is not to discuss the events of 80 years ago with their political dimensions, but only a human demand; they say, "Where are these people's graves, where are they buried, where should they be returned to their families?" It's a very human request. My dear friends, historians, of course, tell us what happened in the past, and it affects today's politics. We're talking about it, we're arguing about it, but it's in no one's best interest, not this nation's, not this country's. We, the Republican People's Party, think it's right to stay away from this. My dear friends, after people die, they no longer have an account for this world. Therefore, whoever it is, all religions, cultures, orders, orders, and does what they want to do, respect the dead. There is no vengeance on the dead, nor is the dead punished, nor is this ever done concerning the relatives of the dead. The universal law and the law, which is a virtue in the Republic of Turkey, both our religion and our traditions, express that it is not right to blame others for the sin of any criminal, to ask for their account. That is what our Prophet Veda Hutbesi said: "You cannot place the guilt of any father upon his son and his son upon his father. " In many verses of the Qur'an, no sinner can be blamed for another person's sin, nor can he be blamed for another. " This is a human request, my dear friends. By meeting this, setting up a commission on this, or setting up a team to investigate it, we'll also be doing a humanitarian job -- as well as reducing the polarisation of the disputes between the Justice and Development Party Group and the HDP Group that you've just discussed. It'll be good for everyone, so social peace will be good for everyone. Of course, there are different politicians, and we can approach historical events differently, but it would be good for all of us if everyone had the good news for everyone. I think we should support this motion, and if we don't support it, the ruling party will explain to the group that we're going to expose the graves of these bodies to their families. Let's say it and let's end this discussion, and let's do our human duty. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0075par0377	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Isparta MP Sait Yüce. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0076par0382	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, graves and graveyards are among the symbols of social memory. Since the Ottoman community is a peaceful society with the truth of death and the belief in the afterlife, the graveyards are in mosques and places where people live. Unfortunately, those who want to push the fact of death out of daily life have destroyed city graveyards almost everywhere. They tried to throw the truth of death out of life, where you come from, where you're going, what is man's true mission in the world? The common identity of the names mentioned in HDP's proposal is Kurdish, of course these people who are unknown where their graves are today, but we don't see it as a positive approach to the creation of these names and the feeding of nationalism as symbols of Kurdish nationalism. There are reports of both reactionary and British agents and collaborators about these Saits, which are in the records. I also think that the friends who made this suggestion should also settle accounts with Ocalan. Yes, it is therefore a moral responsibility for the Kurds to withdraw their hands from Saidi Nursi, from Saidi Nursi, from Kurds, from Kurds, from Kurds, who use Kurds, from Saidi Nursi, and to stop using it as a political tool. Saidi Nursi is not just one of Turkey's unifying elements, but it will continue to be one of Turkey's unifying elements. The times when the graves were broken and destroyed are the only parties and times of impact. The rulers of that system of persecution have made grave mistakes that do not suit mankind, Islam, the brotherhood. In our recent history, we reject these unacceptable atrocities and mistakes to the end. Sheikh Sait was executed on June 29, 1925. Seyit Reza was executed on November 15, 1937, on the night of Ramadan, March 23, 1960, on the night of Ramadan, Sait Reza was found at the mercy of the Hakkk, and immediately after that, you know, the May 27 conflict. The perpetrators of the May 27 coup took him to a military plane one hundred and eleven days after his burial, in the middle of the night of July 12, 1960, in the middle of the night, declaring a curfew in Urbana, surrounded by armored troops and tanks, breaking the marble of the tomb to an unknown location. Thank God those days are over. At the time, Saidi Nursi had always called his disciples against persecutions and tortures and imprisonments and exiles, saying: "They are doing wrong. Don't give revenge to those who persecute him, torture him, exile committees, and incite those who provoke him. " I'd also like to remind you of a historical event here. In 1919... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0077par0390	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0076par0391	...when the Armenian Bogos Nubar Pasha and the Armenian Nubar Pasha were negotiating to establish a common Kurdish state in Paris, Badi Saidi Nursi violently rejected the initiative and decided, however, in the newspapers and telegrams published in İstanbul, that it was not needed by the Kurds, and made it clear that the Kurds did not need such a state. Today, unfortunately, it's being used in its name, it's being exploited. We strongly deny it and declare that we do not accept it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0077par0394	Thank you, Your Holiness.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0395	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0077par0396	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0397	Mr. President, the orator has used sentences to taunt our group as to whether we should withdraw from Saidi Nursi, do not know what he is saying -- really -- to test whether we should answer Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0077par0398	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. It's probably a good example of how conflicting the beginning and end of a conversation can be. Stand up and stay in Sheikh Sait, and Seyit Reza Piri and Saidi Nursi will first condemn and condemn and condemn Saidi Nursi as symbols of Kurdish nationalism, and will go into a conflicting conversational fiction with the first sentence, which is mentally owned by Saidi Nursi. Mr. Ocalan, we don't know when he said negative things about these individuals.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0079par0403	It's on the record.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0404	Besides... You've read well, it seems, you're a good reader of Mr. Ocalan, but that's not our agenda today. Since Said Nursi, Master Bediuz time is so important to you, not so much, not yet 60 years ago, come, let's find the tomb site and a person with a social response far beyond what you're talking about, what you're thinking about, what you're thinking about, what you're thinking about, is a man of thought. Come, bring these lovers to his grave. You say you're full-blown, you say you're capable, why are you contradicting yourself, if you're such a valuable person, someone with such a social response? One other thing: look, your friend mentioned a tradition of circumcision. Even during the war, the Holy Prophet -- you've graduated from a religious school, you've studied theology -- and I say that you've had a sad enough speech to allow the people who fought and who may have died with their arrows to be taken away from their funerals, while you've had a vast humility, while you've stood up and saluted the entire General Assembly with the name of Kurdish-Turkishism, through the symbol name of its nationalism, the presence of certain individuals, the graves of social figures, and the presence of their loved ones, and the presence of their loved ones.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0080par0409	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0081par0410	Mr. President, Mr. Lightning can't decide what to say on the stand. What our speaker has said is clear, clear, clear.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0411	It's very conflicting. It's inconsistencies from beginning to end.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0081par0412	Oh, they'll stand up and express their opinion, but the beginning of the talk, sir, was like this, and the end of the talk was like this... lt's not going to be Mr. Yıldırım. The General Assembly will appreciate that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0078par0414	The symbol name of Kurdish nationalism will be said and then he will rise up and claim it?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0082par0418	Congressmans, the People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0083par0419	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit01spe0082par0420	...I submit the group's proposal to your votes, I call the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit02spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 23rd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit02spe0084par0004	Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit02spe0082par0005	Congressmans, we'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0082par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (15/11/2017), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. A parliamentary research proposal issued by Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoc to the Turkish Parliament's Parliament Assembly on 15/11/2017 to investigate the work and expenditures carried out against Syrian refugees in Turkey (1478 rows). lu) has been proposed to take over other proposals and hold talks Wednesday (15/11/2017) on a daily merger of 15/11/2017. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Özkoc, who has the proposal to explain the reason for the proposal, will speak. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0085par0017	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. The Republican People's Party brought the damage our people suffered due to tax evasion to protect our people's rights, to protect their law, to the agenda of the House yesterday. The Republican People's Party continues to protect the rights and the law of the people, and today it is against parliament again to find out where the $30 billion money spent in the interest of Syrian refugees and their education went and where it was spent. My fellow lawmakers, the status of the Syrians in Turkey is temporary protection, not refugees. Why? According to an agreement made in Geneva after World War II, Turkey signed under the terms of its geographical situation on that day. So the Syrians who are now living in Turkey are here as refugees. Those under temporary protection have the right to remain unlimited, forced to be sent back, to meet their urgent needs. How many people are in Turkey? Three and a half million people -- five per cent of Turkey's population -- are Syrian. In a speech at the Young Businessmen's Association on February 11, 2016, the chairman of the EC PARTI, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, says that we have spent $10 billion on the Syrian people so far. On June 23, 2017, Şanlıurfa said that Turkey had spent $30 billion, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, or 120 quadrillion. Have you ever heard of my nut workers, my manufacturers, the contractors, the workers who can't pay their labor, the shopkeepers, the pensioners, my people who live to pay their taxes on Turkey's sweat? Do you know what the money in your pocket is and what the money was called? Yesterday, the daily Hurriyet explains that $2.9 billion has been paid for the European Union on Syrian refugees. I'm asking you guys, where's 2 billion 900 million euros? Our people, who are starving, who commit suicide because they can't get their son to read, are not invested in the future of the people in Turkey. If they're spent on Syrian refugees, they're prosperous in Turkey; their homes, cars, jobs, yachts, floors, everything, but the Syrians are in poverty in Turkey. They work for a penny, a nickel. They don't get the reward for the hard work of people who work in Turkey, but they continue to spend their lives for the benefit of three cents, nickels, and dimes. Now, I'm asking you, where did you spend this 120 quadrillion pounds? Where is this money that you collect on people's taxes and their hard work? Turkey's Grand National Assembly won't investigate this, but what will it investigate? He's not going to answer for 120 quadrillion liras for the Turkish nation's sweat, what's he going to ask? I call you to conscience and justice. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0086par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Now I promise the other political party groups. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0087par0031	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party's Party on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of our government or of the services made by NGOs regarding refugees in our country. I salute your high council. Precious lawmakers have been forced to migrate to more than 6 million people from their homes in Syria, including hundreds of thousands of civilians, more than 6 million people from their homes, and more than 5 million Syrians from other countries in Syria, due to internal turmoil that began in Syria in 2011. As a result of the civil war in Syria, nearly 4 million Syrian refugees have been sheltered in our country and have been in our country for six years. Turkey has given the world an example of humanity, and all services such as education and health services, such as housing, are being provided as needed as both our state and NGOs, but it is not possible to end up like this. After a while, they will return to their country after the internal turmoil in Syria has been prevented. Honorable MPs are Turkey's own security as a result of the wars of the Syrian refugees, and the power of attorney in Syria, in the Middle East. Turkey is obliged to provide border security according to its situation. A security zone was formed here, as the operation of the Fırat Shield began, and a process in which Turkey, Russia and Iran were part of the Astana Process. After that, a secure area was attempted to be formed in the Idlib region and around it. Around 3.5 million Turks live here and have the second largest population of Syria. Turkmen have been the most affected and dispossessed by the drama in Syria. Turkey must show the necessary sensitivity for Turkmen, the Astana Process and other processes to make necessary attempts to represent the Turkishmen's political party, which the Turkishmen Assembly in Syria -- which includes three political parties. The security of Syria, Aleppo, Kerkuk, Musul, the security of Turkey, says the security of Turkey, and in the process I think that Turkey, along with the U.S. and Israel, should keep a close eye on those who want to get their hands on the natural gas, the oil deposits.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0088par0037	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0089par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, there are nearly 3.5 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. In fact, the regime in Syria, rather than the refugees in Turkey for a long time, has been dealt with whether or not Assad will go, and whether the regime will change there or not, and the refugees have not had much to do with their problems. Now, this is a motion to investigate how much spending on them is being determined. Yeah, it's important, really, that this has to be identified, but there's also another reality that needs to be determined; yes, where did the spending go, so how much did the spending go, but where did it go? Is this really for refugees? Which problems of theirs have been solved, which needs to be determined. Now, for example, there are some claims in the Lifetime Learning Unit, which is concentrated in the field of education for refugees. Electronic devices such as iPads sent to refugees, training devices used by officers, managers, were not given to them, were not offered to refugees, and the allegations of insults and violence are also intense in these centers. Therefore, the European Union -- which we already have funds from there -- they say, let's do this audit. They say, "Let's not just check in Turkey, let's do this audit." Now, on average, there's a Turkey where 125 Syrian babies are born a day. That's 45 grand a year. In 2026, more than 4 million Syrians will be mentioned in Turkey, and if Syrian children remain uneducated, they will naturally become unemployed. These children are children who come from traumatic areas, from the war, and also children who have been discriminated against in Turkey in a short period of time, and they will cause other aggressions, other incompatibility, and they will likely fall into criminal networks. Now, who's in the process? There's the AFAD, there's the Immigration Administration, but considering there's almost 40 children being sexually harassed, there's allegations, there's investigations, there's also an organization that, when we look at the Immigration Administration, is bound by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and will implement more security policies. In fact, other than that, politics, integration are required for the Syrians, but they're not the institutions that can apply them, and there's a tremendous amount of labor exploitation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to sort out the problems very briefly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0090par0050	Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0089par0051	For example, these are drug purchases, social services access, language barriers, schooling rates -- for example, more than 360,000 children are not registered in school -- child labor, harassment, rape, violence, individual disputes with the locals, as well as racism, attacks they've suffered. Dear friends, I would also like to address our people: be good to the refugees because they are not the ones who stole your vaccine, your bread. Do not insult them in racial attacks, because those who steal from your work, your vaccine, your bread -- the bag of laws that come before us today -- and the tax pardons from this country, or the people who don't actually pay their taxes fairly and use that wealth only for themselves. They're not the refugees responsible, I think they should be done what they need to be done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This would require further and deeper research, as well as supporting this motion. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0091par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0058	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0091par0059	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0091par0061	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0062	See, the subject of Syrian immigrants is spoken of here, addressing our citizens, saying that those who stole from your vaccine, your work, those who brought this bag of law, those who did these practices. This is an open taunt, Mr. President, and I'd like to speak from that point of view.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0091par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0067	Mr. President, valuable MPs, similar statements have been used here since yesterday. There's a story in a newspaper that says that there's always law enforcement here. Our Prime Minister has already started the legal process of this, and has applied to the court for this newspaper. We'll all wait together, we'll see. In addition, he made a statement at the press conference about the taxes that the IRS had paid on the subject or the companies involved.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0093par0068	Mr. Mush, who are you answering to?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0069	I'm sorry, but it's not right to take the news out of the paper like it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0094par0070	The world speaks, the world speaks, Mr. Mush, the world speaks.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0071	Second of all, look, the law is made here to meet the needs of the nation, of the community. If you don't have any evidence to prove your claims, you're gonna have to figure out what this AK PARTY group stole with this bag. If you can't put these in, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, you're a mufter. In the same way, the Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group has just been making a scene here.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0094par0073	Yeah, what's that supposed to mean?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0074	Look, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you can move from newspaper to newspaper, but first, base it on concrete evidence. Now, should I go out here and talk about your president's daughter's apartment in Buzgate, or should I move from here? Or should I tell you why your chief of staff has an apartment there?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0094par0075	It's very similar, very similar!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0076	When this came out, there were no explanations, there were a lot of suspects, and then there were a lot of arguments. You want me to go over all this and make accusations? As long as you're protecting the people's rights, the Constitutional Court has audited your accounts, you've returned $3.3 million. You paid a number of 800,000 liras for the service you didn't receive. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You paid it back by the Constitutional Court's decision. Isn't that $3.3 million people's money? You're a party that doesn't manage people's money, the treasure that gives you, the money you have to use for your party, the budget.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0094par0079	Let's look into it. Let's look into it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0092par0080	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0095par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0096par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0097par0084	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Kerestecioğlu and Mr. Ozkoc, I will listen to you both, and I will promise both of you not to be bullied. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0098par0088	Now, you know, I'd like to invite you out for courtesy, but what if I did, and what if I didn't?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0099par0089	It'll be nice of you to take care of yourself.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0098par0090	The same words are repeated, brought up here again. And then there's the mystery. For example, I didn't mention Malta, but good, you mentioned it, you brought it to my attention. I was talking about what happened in the bag of law.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0100par0091	He confessed, he confessed.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0098par0092	Other than that, I mentioned tax pardons brought to companies, and I mentioned that there was no such pardon for the poor in any way. So, poor citizens, you look here and don't look at the refugees, because in the old days, there's always been an enemy of the worker, the officer, the worker. For example, because the laborer is a unionist, they take the money, they take the money. It's called that. But it's the source that pays for everyone, but it's not done for the rich. I've spoken of them, but now I'm not talking about Queen Elizabeth. So really international broadcasters have sat down, researched, and the world is talking about it, the world is talking about it. I mean, it's not something we get up and read about in a newspaper.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0101par0093	Tell me what the stolen bag is in the law.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0098par0094	The Prime Minister says: "My sons have no immunity, so do research on it." E, we're bringing a research proposal here, you say no, you don't accept it. And then you get up, and you really say disrespectful things like, really, nurse. I'm not the kind of person who talks like that around here. You know, I don't really take you seriously in that sense, I mean, I don't take this personally, but I made a commitment here to enlighten our people, not because I've been bullied or something. From now on, we will fight to protect the rights of the poor, just as we have protected the rights of the poor. Well, you're going to pay for it, unfortunately, so there's no escape, either the Prime Minister or his sons or anyone else. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0101par0097	You must be the judge. You're the head of the court. Mr. President, tell him what we're stealing in the bag of law, answer him, tell him to come out. Come on, say it! No, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0102par0100	I won't answer what you want.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0103par0101	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0104par0103	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, when a ruling party's MPs elect a group of presidential deputies, and they do your job, you have to deal with them, but if there's someone who doesn't know the knowledge, the knowledge, the pattern, the custom, you're helpless. The president of this country's opposition party said, "Let's look into our assets, including your sons-in-law, including yours, including yours. Let's all answer. We've repeatedly submitted a motion about this, just as your Prime Minister's children missed taxes on offshore accounts, you're doing the same thing today as you did yesterday. We don't tell you in the papers, we don't tell you anything we don't prove. That's exactly what we spent on Syrian refugees, as your president-in-chief says. He says, "Well, that's 120 quadrillion liras." And we defend this poor man, this poor man, this guru, his rights, his law. You can either answer for it or you can turn your face red, get out of the government and out of the seats you're sitting in, and get out of the way of this nation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0105par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0106par0108	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0105par0109	I want to know where I stand according to 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0106par0110	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0105par0113	Mr. President, Mr. Ozkoc is talking about my knowledge, my experience, my traditions. I've come up with some ideas. Here, the intelligence of my mind, my knowledge, and my knowledge is too much for Ozkoç, if we try to reveal our individuals, our individuals, our knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0107par0116	Well said, well done, good for you! Is that what they taught you in college? Good for you!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0108par0117	Do you live in heaven on earth, why do you have to...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0109par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0110par0119	Mr. Ozkoch, enter the system.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0111par0120	Way to go! Well said, good for you!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0112par0121	What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0113par0122	Why are you shouting?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0111par0123	I'll scream, what!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0114par0124	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0115par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0116par0126	Does it suit you? Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0114par0127	Congressmans, I've turned on Mr. Ozkoc's microphone.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0117par0128	Where do we talk? Didn't the Prime Minister say it was about offshore, didn't he say the Prime Minister? Explain. He said, "I will investigate." He said, "Why are you running away? Why are you running away?"
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0118par0129	No running, no yelling!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0117par0130	He said it himself, brother. For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0118par0131	Don't talk so loud!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0117par0132	We're not going to ask you what we're going to talk about!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0118par0134	Speech!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0117par0135	It's you, don't be rude; it's you, talk decently!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit03spe0119par0137	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0119par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0120par0003	Mr. Orator has made a clear accusation, sir. I demand word.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0119par0004	Here, I promise not to tease you for two minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0120par0007	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers show the existence of immoral morality. Our knowledge, our experience, our morality, and our stance, as the sun melts the ice, is the greatest answer we can give these friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Don't provoke, Prime Minister, the Syrian children your president spoke of in his statements, where did you take the 120 quadrillion liras you claim to have given to women, and answer. Tell me if your Prime Minister's children have missed taxes on offshore accounts or not. People are asking you for an account. And you're gonna have to pay for it sooner or later. We, the Republican People's Party, will continue to ask the people's account whether you're angry, whether you're foaming, whether you're jumping, whether you're blushing.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0119par0011	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Ozkoch, let me remind you of something. Normally, I should have promised you your place because I closed the session, but I took the initiative, promised you no bullying. I want you to know that.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0120par0013	Thank you very much, sir. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0121par0016	Mr. President, we're not here to take moral lessons from anyone. We express our policies, our knowledge, our party's actions. That's the answer I had to give because of the fact that the group's vice president had entered into the matter of my savings, the tradition, the pattern, and the custom of the discussion. Look, we're having a very heated discussion here with the members of the Republican People's Party, and we've done before, with the friends here, who are continuing, leaving the post. But we've never been on the stand about each other's personality, about each other's character, about each other, and no one's ever bothered about it. Everyone expressed their own party policy over concrete issues. The point is, if someone tries to teach us a lesson in morality and so on and so forth, we'll give them all back exactly the same. We're not going to take moral lessons from anyone -- like I just said. Anyone can speak their political opinion. It's obvious what we're doing. This is all for when people go to the polls, and they're going to evaluate it and make a decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0122par0019	It's not like people are going to do the research.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0123par0020	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0124par0021	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0123par0022	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0124par0023	He's made a mockery of it, plain and simple.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0125par0025	It's not a tease, sir. Mr. President expressed his opinion, not teasing.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0124par0026	But before I start picking on you, I'd like to express from here...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0126par0027	Here, for the record.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0124par0028	For the record, I would like to say that he himself, who speaks to us by saying, "Adam, he himself comes up here and taunts us with lies and slanders. He himself is the one who calls his friends here and even our female speaker friends in a way that makes them really difficult, but he's the one who's uncomfortable when we tell him what he deserves.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0126par0029	Well, thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Congressmans, now in the group's proposal, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Leyla Şahin... Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0127par0037	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Our country is an unprecedented, unremarkable host in the world. He has embraced millions who have escaped war, death, persecution, torture. And we do it in a way that sets an example for mankind and for the world, regardless of race, language, religion, sectarianism. And we are proud of everything we've done. Well, there's a lot to be said for that, there's a lot to be said for that, but three minutes isn't enough time to count them. Here we have a lot to say if we're going to talk about the poor, the poor, the poor. First of all, we have to pay attention to populist rhetoric and racism, and if there are people who are trying to start a fight between the Syrians and the citizens of this country, we're not going to let that happen, we're not going to let that happen. For this reason, we are not proud of those who even go out and use these platforms to their own populist rhetoric, their own false information, and I invite them to first speak from this stand to morality and decency in order to correct themselves in their efforts to divide this nation. If we're going to talk about the poor, let's talk about the poor. Who made a CHP MP pay a phone bill of $1.5 trillion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0128par0042	Don't do this, it's not a phone bill!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0127par0043	Go out and tell the poor beggar: "We didn't make Parliament pay for it, we paid for it ourselves in the name of our party.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0128par0044	That's not phone money. There, you're lying.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0129par0045	Tell me about the AKP people!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0128par0046	You're lying to me.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0130par0047	We're not lying.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0128par0048	That's not a phone bill.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0130par0049	It's all invoices, it's all invoices. If you'd come out and paid us, we'd have seen that you didn't give this poor man the benefit of the doubt.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0131par0050	He paid more than that himself.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0132par0051	Who said, "Son, reset."
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0133par0052	Explain the AKP people's, as well as the AKP people's.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0134par0053	I'm afraid you're very unaware of what's been done.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0132par0054	Who said, "Son, reset." Who said, "Who?"
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0134par0055	Just to be an example, in September 2017, 120 million dollars was paid under the Social Harmony Aid Programme funded by the European Union. Look, every penny from the European Union has an account, budget and project; it is spent on Syrians as part of the project. It's not stolen from this nation's money. If anyone steals it, it's those who claim it's because they steal it and they think it's what everybody thinks it is. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Therefore, because of their slandering this nation's stand with false information, I once again condemn those who say these words with great regret and regret, and I say, "Do something for this country, and come and do something for this country, for our unity."
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0135par0058	Pay taxes then!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0134par0059	A Republican MP who called the operation in Afrin..... to call it an operation to protect the rights of the oppressed there so that there would be no more mass migration. My respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0136par0062	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0063	He spoke with false information.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0136par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0067	My dear President, the esteemed MPs... Guys, what are you talking about? First of all, it's not a phone call, nobody can make that many phone calls, so get it right so you can make a tease here. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second, do you really have the face to talk about this? Aren't you the ones who carry millions of dollars in shoe boxes?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0138par0072	Watch your language! Who took him?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0073	Aren't you the members of the party who asked me to reset my son during his phone call to his son?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0138par0075	It's slander!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0076	Aren't you the members of the party that said, "If I explain to the mayor of the main city the land you've made a go of to the terror organization, you have no place to go?" Do you have a face to go public and you can talk about the Republican People's Party here? Who doesn't know that you stole this nation's money from the People's Bank, the counting machines, in their bedrooms?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0139par0077	Don't talk to a terrorist organization, with a terrorist organization!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0078	Why did you have four ministers resign?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0139par0080	Don't speak with the mouth of a terrorist organization!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0137par0081	Where are those ministers of yours who took your million-dollar watch and took people's taxes and couldn't answer? You have something to say to these people? I think you should think about how you're going to pay for what you've done, not just here, but in the afterlife.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0139par0083	You're stuck with the false evidence!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0140par0084	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Here you go, Mr. Mush... Mr. Mush, what happened?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0087	Mr. President, what do you want me to say? I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0140par0088	You want to talk about bullying...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0089	Come in. When I say...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0140par0090	At least make a statement.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0092	Mr. President, I'd like to make this very clear. On December 17th-25, before the March 30th 2014 local elections, there is a Republican People's Party who, by the direction of someone, pushed the button and failed to reach its goal but still hopes for its ashes.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0142par0093	It's history when there's corruption.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0094	They're so worried that their plot didn't work out, they're so worried...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0143par0095	Political foot, political foot!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0096	If we can't defeat the PARTI with courage and courage, perhaps we'll be able to come to this power if it is somehow brought down by such tricky games. Look, no matter how much editing, lying, slandering, audio recording, tape there is, it's a party that's famous for the tape, you know -- they put it on their screens at group meetings. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before the 30th of March elections, look, the presidents of the general's office go up to the channel of... on October 20th and say: "Look, he won't be able to see the election, he'll run away from this country.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0144par0100	You set up those channels.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0101	Dear friends, what happened?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0145par0102	You cut that opening ribbon on those canals!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0103	We won the March 30th election. We didn't run away. Those who are waiting for us to escape are now in other dens, wandering all over the world.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0146par0104	Take your time, take your time!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0141par0105	Dear MPs, look, as we're operating on the canals of this structure, we're looking at, again, the MPs of the Republican People's Party don't close these channels on the front lines. Why are you still trying to find a political life with the scraps of the plot set up by the GERP? Dear friends, I've just said that this party is a party with 3.3 million fines from the Constitutional Court that can't even use the help of the treasure properly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0147par0108	For fuck's sake! Boo, boo! You've caused trouble to the country, you've caused trouble to it!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0109	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0149par0110	I promise you, if it continues, I'll take a break. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0113	I apologize to all the MPs here. There's only one reason I'm sorry. That's what I'm talking about with morality. I'm condemning someone who's struggling with death right now, who's making an immoral reference from this podium.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0150par0115	With who? What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0116	I reject everything about him. It can't be so immoral, it's immoral.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0151par0117	You spent it, you made the tape, you made the tape. Your president's here, he's in position. If anyone is to be condemned, it is Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0118	Second: Are you trying to put together the Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0152par0119	You're political.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0151par0120	Who's in charge?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0121	In the cases of Sledgehammer and Ergenekon, the Tuncay Özkans, Mehmet Haberals, did the generals in which you took and imprisoned the head of this country's Chief of Staff with the secret testimony of a Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militant, did they or did they not commit a coup in this country? Are you responsible for this or not? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're just a political party that elects the aide from within the community, even when you take him in with your own president. (CHEERING) Are you going to account for this to us or for the people? But one day, of course, you will.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0151par0124	You're still talking with your mouth on the stand!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0125	Because you brought those generals into office that day, those generals tried to strike, and this country gave 250 martyrs.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0153par0126	Who's in charge?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0148par0127	Your sin is great, but you will pay for it sooner or later.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0154par0129	Who escaped from the airport?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit04spe0155par0130	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0155par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the "choice" part of the agenda. Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp has been nominated for 1 membership in the People's Democratic Party Group, which has been divorced in the Human Rights Review Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. In the first place, the Law on the Changing of Laws and Laws and Laws under the Law and Laws, and the Law on the Changing of the Law of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, number 6306, "Law on the Alternate Areas Under Disaster Risks," number 2981, "Advention of Laws and Laws Against Customs and Laws Against Lawst Laws," and we will continue to talk on the proposal of the Law on the Amendment and on the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law and on the Law of Law on Laws of Laws of the Number 6785," number 4706, and on the number 4706. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, talks were completed on the third part of the Law Bill 502, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, we're going to do the question-answer process in 15 minutes. In yesterday's merger, I will prioritize the members of lawmakers who entered the system for chapter three. Initiating 15 minutes. Half of the 15 minutes belong to the Congressman, the other half belongs to the Minister. Mr. Division, if he's here, let's get started. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0156par0022	Mr. Secretary, in addition to the fertile land of Adana, we have two hundred years of long-standing industrial history, with natural gas and oil lines, close to the Middle East, land road, railway, airway and sea, and a very high logistical advantage for investment. The potential for qualified personnel is also high because of the fact that there is already a area of bus, van, truck, truck production. The strong iron steel industry in Osmaniye is another element that supports that advantage. The automotive department of Çukurova University Engineering School also signs important work in the automotive sector, which is established in Adana, and exports buses to 64 countries, as well as with important companies in the industry, including MAN, Mercedes-Benz, Nurol Machine, SANKO. It would be a wise decision to consider the construction of the local automotive factory in Adana, in terms of the development of the region's economy, as well as the potential and advantages that it has from false incentives.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0155par0023	Mr. Akar... no. Mr. Kayishoglu... no. Mr. Turkmen... no. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0157par0027	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: 1) What is the amount of financing that your government has been able to guarantee for domestic and foreign loans, and the deals with the make-and-designed meat-revelopment model? 2) What is the number of buildings your ministry has rented in Ankara centre, all districts and cities? What's the rent on these? 3) What is the number of vehicles rented in your ministry's district and county agencies? What's the rent you pay for these rentals? 4) The public's obligation to bridges is 1.30; the public obligation of the city hospital model is 3 to 1. The private sector is guaranteed 70 per cent of fullness in hospitals. 17 hospitals have been promised a $27 billion guarantee starting today. The outcome is unpredictable. Do you still want to continue this model? Thank you. Is Mr. Backup here? No. Mr. Zeybek? No. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0158par0036	Although my questions were to the Minister of Health, but I asked them yesterday, and I'm going to repeat them again today because we're getting calls and texts from health workers on this. Are you aware that the number of health care professionals waiting to be appointed has increased exponentially as health care providers increased? How many people do you plan to appoint in health care while 450 thousand medics are waiting for the appointment? How much will your additional quota be? If certificate programmes are seen as adequate, why do our young people study at vocational schools, universities, universities? My next question is, instead of graduate paramedics, people with no qualifications, no certificates, no health sciences, subcontractors. There is a need for both health and 450 thousand outside. Why are we hiring subcontractors instead of paramedics? Another question is, why doesn't the safety investigation of thousands of paramedics who can't start the mission even though they have an appointment? When we ask these questions, it's complete, it's done. It's tried, but we don't get results.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0159par0042	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0160par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 47m euros has been paid to the platform of a wrecked Saab car, and this project has failed. Today, the Minister of Industry has made a statement, so we're going to transfer this platform to the Joint Initiative Group. I'm wondering how to do this transition and whether 47m euros will be taken from these 5 entrepreneurs or not.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0159par0045	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0161par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm actually going to ask you a question on the part of the Ministry of Health. Only 128 X-ray technicians serve around 2 million inhabitants of the family. In terms of health regulations, X-ray technicians who need to work at maximum seven-and-a-half hours a day or less have to work overtime from 30 to 60 hours an extra hour since employment has not been provided. Of course, they're also suffering from cancer because of this busy work. We've got a lot of cancer-related friends in our county who've been diagnosed in this way. The appointment of 151 more X-ray technicians in our province to complete the numbers mentioned on the 2017 staff distribution table has not been made to Koseli. Is there going to be an investigation into the victims of unsubstantiated practices, ignoring the law? When will the appointment be made? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0162par0049	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0163par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, on Friday (November 10, 2017), the anniversary of the death of our Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, acting as if Ataturk had never been mentioned in the mosques across Turkey, in Friday's borders, and the founder of our country's Ministry of Religious Affairs had taken a stand. Why was Mustafa Kemal Ataturk not mentioned on Friday (November 10th 2017) in the text prepared by the founder of our country on the anniversary of his death? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0164par0053	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0165par0054	Mr. Secretary, in recent years, it is clear that our country's international relations have not been conducted well, that there have been tides in this area. Since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, national interests have been based on national interests, and foreign policy has been carried out in a stable manner, regardless of what government comes to in foreign policy. At this point, the well - being ambassadors and bureaucrats representing our country have a great influence. Even during regime changes, the countries protect their original staff, while the former members of themonsher say, we live in a period when the veterans in the Foreign Office are excluded and the dishonest ones are appointed ambassadors. Is it not possible to take immediate steps to improve the instability in foreign politics? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0164par0056	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0166par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, nine people who were members of all Turkish-İSK Transport Workers' Union (TMTIS) working at Gaziantep have been terminated by the owner of the trade union 70 days ago. The assault reports are available at the police station. At the same time, there have been complaints of illegal Syrian work at this firm, but no progress has been made. I think the Minister should intervene in this matter. I'd like to ask from here if they're going to do a study on how to get the workers back to work. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0167par0061	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0168par0063	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Division has asked a question, "Can Turkey's native car be made in Adana?" They expressed that the industry in Adana was very practical in this sense, and that the conditions for education were highly developed in that sense. I'm going to share these thoughts with our Minister. There's a race here, I see, so there's a demand for Turkey's automobile to be made in their provinces of our different provinces about where this is going to be done. I believe the joint venture group here will make such a choice by making its own assessment. Mr. Arslan asked for or asked for expenses related to certain issues related to both our ministry and our ministry in general. But I don't have that information right now, so if you'll excuse me, let our relevant friends make the necessary preparations, and we'll give you that information. On the other hand, both public-private co-operation projects and all these projects, which are a substantive part of it, are being implemented, while the Development Ministry, the Treasury Undersecretary and Finance Ministry, along with its relevant project plan maker, are doing social analysis, including social benefits, both economic and economic analysis, including direct externalities, and indirect externalities, in this sense. Besides, you know, public-private cooperation projects are a model of financing in a way. There are also different contract models based on the risk of investment, risk of financing and the risk of running a business between the investor and the public administration that makes this investment. Again, under the umbrella of the High Planning Board, the Treasury Undersecretary and Finance Ministry, along with the relevant application agencies here, calculates the financial sustainability of all these projects, economic sustainability, opportunity costs one by one, computing the cost and benefits of this issue, and documenting all preparedness. In that sense, it is really important for Turkey's economy that these investments, which, as a government, will contribute substantially to the development of Turkey, and in the areas where they are being made, are actually a significant support for private sector investments and public services and have a very positive, positive externality. All these studies have been conducted, including the financial sustainability of these public-private co-operation projects that we've done in the transport sector and health sector, and all sorts of work are being done in a clear, transparent way, including the fact that the obligations that will be made under these projects will be precipitated in the year-to-year budget legislation. I believe that these public private cooperation projects will have significant investments in many sectors that will bring Turkey's growth potential up in the coming years, hopefully together. There are some direct payments to public finance as part of these projects in terms of public finances, some of which are subject to an obligation due to the fact that the risk is taking place. Looking at one or two years of the project, it is not the right approach to calculate the entire project cycle now over today's numbers. There are assumptions for the early years of projects when all these construction projects are being done, and those assumptions will actually take the projects to a much more positive point in very different points, as economic growth is accelerating in the years ahead. Mr. Yıldırım has brought up issues regarding the Ministry of Health concerning quotas and appointments. Our Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance are discussing these issues together. On the one hand, of course, our Ministry requires personnel in the health care sector. On the other hand, as the Finance Ministry, we will plan to meet these needs by considering the personnel demands of all ministries, not just the Ministry of Health. We're meeting with our Minister, our interested friends. Of course, we'll consider the budgets here. Hopefully, when there's a solution to both the timing and the nature of the quota, we'll be able to share it with the public. Mr. Tarhan asked about the joint venture, what the era would be like. I don't know anything about that directly. Mr. Hurriyet, I got my note about the X-ray technicians from Kopeli. In fact, it's a general issue, not just for Alexei, but for many of our health departments, we have a request for technical personnel. In that sense, I know our Ministry has been meticulously working at the point of meeting all these needs. From that point on, they completed their work on whatever hospital, whatever branch, whatever they were missing. Right now, we're going over these studies with the Treasury Department. Hopefully, we hope to get some results on these studies as soon as possible. I'm probably out of time, aren't I? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0169par0074	Twenty seconds.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0168par0075	Well, I didn't go on thinking, of course, that my time had run out. If you'll excuse me, I'll take a look at my notes over there. I got my memo on these union members, the layoffs, so let me ask you. I don't know, I mean, my knowledge...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0170par0077	Seventy days, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0168par0078	I mean, if you share that note with me, I'll share it with my friends.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0170par0079	Okay.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0168par0080	Okay, thanks.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0171par0081	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 56, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Labour and Social Security is in charge of bringing forward the date of payment in Article 56 of the current Law Bill 502, and we propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text of the bill. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mithat Sancar Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan Ahmet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0172par0092	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0171par0093	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0173par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0171par0095	On the motion, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0174par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a technical provision for unemployment insurance, the 56th article of the bag law. However, I looked through the reports, especially when the Commission presented a bag of 502 rows of legislation, Mr. Secretary, we made a mistake in the previous arrangement, and now we're making it up to him. He uses a sentence in his speech. So let's say that what we've been saying for a long time, especially when it comes to unemployment insurance, mistakes have been made from the start. The rest of those mistakes today are just as they were. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a country, we have entered a process of power that will burn everyone but especially the poor. We call it a process that will burn the poor more because the rich continue to prosper. I've said it all the time before, and let's say again, that as we go from 2002 to 2015, over the course of 14 years, one percent of the richest people in all the wealth in this country have had over 59 percent of its 14th year, so the rich are getting richer. The scissors are opening wide between the rich and the poor. Why does he need a new arrangement for unemployment insurance, and why do poor people become poorer? Because the government specifically finances the government's treasury, companies that don't pay taxes, mismanagement, or companies that seem to be under false management. There are many examples of this: we can see how the Colonels, Canal A, or Genghis Holdings' taxes are zeroed out, as well as the Ministry of Finance central detection reports. There's also the Prime Minister's own statement, which says that 30,000 companies have survived bankruptcy because of the Credit Guarantee Fund. Let's say, what companies are saved and how do they survive? Let's say, with the contribution of the Prime Minister's Security Fund, the companies who survive bankruptcy are saved with who's money, of course with the taxes of the poor people. I'd like to share with you, valued lawmakers, a piece of data that shows that the government is doing economic programs through the election atmosphere at a time when an election atmosphere is being entered again. Look, let me read you a sentence from the Ministry of Economy's Court report. For the Ministry of Economics, the Court says that some companies have been found to make it institutional to not pay taxes. Why would they pay? After all, it's done by the government that pardons before certain periods, and then the bankruptcy companies with the taxes of the poor people. On the one hand, companies will not pay taxes first, they will get rid of that obligation with pardons, and then they will be paid off by the poor people's taxes by consciously borrowing themselves. So, what are the public doomed to? Here's a data from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy: 10 million, 610,000 people in this country received social aid from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2016. Now, in this case, one out of every eight people in this country -- in the face, with all due respect to all our people -- is almost a beggar with the culture of charity -- it is not possible to understand or accept this notion that the great corporations were able to be rescued with the help of the treasure. The unemployment fund reached 116 billion liras at the end of 2017. And how much of this was used for its purpose? So it's only 11 billion dollars in 116 billion of all of our unemployed people who took advantage of the funds that had been cut off from him in the years before. So I'm saying that the unemployment fund is being used for a number of less than 10 per cent, and 90 per cent are being used for unemployment, for laborers, for poor people, not for saving large corporations, and we're looking at a reality of power that boasts about this economic programme. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0175par0107	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On the 5th of each month of the month, which is included in the 5th article of the Common Law Bill 502, we propose and provide a monthly change of the declaration. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Kamil Aydın Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0176par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0175par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0177par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0175par0120	On the motion, Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0178par0123	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 56 of Law Bill 502. We support the amendment to this clause as the National Movement Party. Before I begin my discussion, I would like to share with you a sad news: Unfortunately, on Monday evening, I have made this promise to share with you the problems of our citizens that have been affected by the heavy rain and tornado in the areas of our Antalya, Kash, Finke, Demre, and Kumluca. Honourable citizens, respected lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to ask for immediate healing for our fellow citizens who have suffered this disaster. May the Lord protect our shopkeepers and farmers who have suffered material damage and loss from such disasters. Natural disasters, unfortunately, are a fact of our country. In recent years, our country in the earthquake belt has had to face major disasters, such as climate change. While our citizens are firmly accepting the disaster, we, as representatives of our nation in this hall, have to think about how we can heal their wounds, how we can save their damage and loss, and we have to come up with a concrete solution. The National Movement Party Antalya Agency is now in our districts to eliminate and eliminate these problems of our citizens, which have been damaged by tornadoes and severe rain, and are doing everything in their power to eliminate the problems of our citizens. And from here, I'd like to thank our agency. When will we be with these brothers and sisters if we cannot be with our citizens after the destruction of the 2,000 acres of greenhouses that have been injured? Members of parliament, 25 of our citizens are currently being treated in the hospitals of Antalya. By God, no citizen has lost his life, and that is our comfort. I would like to call upon our government and our relief agencies immediately to reduce the impact of the disaster in the region. These people contribute to the national economy by farming with all their assets day and night. Believe me, most of them owe thousands of pounds. Despite all this hard work and hardship, these citizens have never been able to avoid paying taxes, paying tons of money for electricity and water, and I have a Finkeli brother who takes credit to pay the electric bill when they don't have it in their hands. Now, this is the kind of day my brother wants to see the government and the public around him. The state organization must immediately come to the aid of these people with all its institutions. The damage to our citizens and producers should be done as soon as possible because of the disaster. A year ago, in our Antalya, our similar boroughs, this disaster was caused by tornadoes, and damage detection has been done here as well, but our citizens, our producers, have doubled their losses and debts, and our producers have been in a very difficult position. I, therefore, speak to your government from here, that a certain amount of damage detection work should be done immediately, and that a certain amount of material resources should be sent to our governorate, to our governorate, and that these farmers, our producers, at least now, should be paid off immediately, and thus our producers should be allowed to take a breath. I salute the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0179par0132	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0180par0133	We demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit05spe0179par0134	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit06spe0179par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 56 of the Law Bill 502, there was no sufficient number of decisions during the vote given by Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0179par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote given by Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul and his friends on Article 56 of Law Bill 502, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 502. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the final motion on Article 56: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 56 of the Law Charter to the amendment of the Law and Laws under some Tax Act 502, which is currently in session. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamaylıgil Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Utku Cakirözer Tulip The first and second sentences of Article 50 of Article 4447, dated 56-25/8/999, have been changed in the following way, adding the following sentence to the same joke after the second sentence. ▪ The unemployment allowance is concluded by the end of the month when applications are monitored. The unemployment allowance is paid to the unemployed on the fifth of each month. The Minister of Labour and Social Security is authorized to move up the date of payment. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0181par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0179par0024	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0182par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0179par0026	Congressman Haluk Pekşen on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0183par0029	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I am not going to tell you today about the fraud of the third airport or the allegations of corruption in the form of an invitation, or the corruption of the Treasury guaranteed jobs. And I'm not going to tell you about that $1 billion corruption in the Bronzebilek coal basin. I've already decided not to talk about the corruption in TRT. I'm not going to talk about the ongoing corruption of energy distribution companies. Look, I'll show you a painting. I want the whole of Turkey to watch this painting carefully. In the last six months, I can no longer stand this betrayal of this country. The workers who have resigned and left their post. Where is it? TUSAS is in a TAI aircraft factory, a factory that has been the pride of Turkey for thirty-three years. The pressures of a well-known general manager and a board of defense industries in Turkish Airlines, and the public employees who walked away with the decision not to resist any more of those pressures, are extremely adult experts of the TAI. Look where they went: it's a satellite. Almost all of the executive staff of the TAI, who was in charge of making satellites, left. What about the satellite job? I'm not going any further, check it out. Of course we won't... About the spare parts... there's not much left over. But there's the plane, there's the helicopter; if you look at it, almost all of them have filed for resignation, damn it! We don't want to be an accessory to so much pressure, so much injustice, and so much betrayal in this country. If anyone wants details, I'll give them to you right here. So, who came instead, what happened, who replaced them? The pharmaceutical rep came in -- it's very important that the pharmaceutical rep -- came in with an open education degree, the minister's chief of staff. Turkey, such as the TAI, has created an enormous chain of pressure to transform such an important institution, the dirty hand of politics, into a supporter's barley. Well, does the TAI have suppliers? I do. Are there companies that have supplied TAI for thirty-three years? I do. But what's interesting about these companies is that a new process has begun, a new supply chain has begun. Look for any new applicants to that supply chain from where it came from, lawmakers, take a look at these. Since it's TAI, I don't want to go any further because it's a defence industry, but I'm warning you from here that everything that happens to the revolutionary automobiles in the TAI is happening to the system that's being produced today. Remove the hand of politics from the TAI. You all know by their documents, by their numbers, where this Chairman of the Board of Directors has led the Turkish Airlines, but we will not allow him to put the TAI in the same position. I would like to address the members of the Armed Forces, in particular, to resist the pressure, the operations, which have been made on the Foundations of the Armed Forces, towards the allies. I understand their silence, they sacrifice themselves so that Turkey will not be harmed, they resign and leave. Some of them go to court for injustices against themselves, they get a verdict, they're sure their verdicts won't be carried out, but they want to at least connect why they're being sent to court. Respectable lawmakers, look at last year's budget of the TAI, look at last year's turnover, look at this year's turnover, look at the turnover it's going to get in the coming period, look at the workload, look at the next ten years' planning. Since it's the TAI, I'm censoring a lot of things, but I assure you that the TAI is about to be paid a greater price than the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Turkey's history. When you do not remove the dirty hands of politics from the TAI, everyone and everyone will stand in line before the Supreme Court, to answer in front of history. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0184par0039	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0041	Vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0184par0042	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0184par0045	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0046	Because of some practices in an institution -- we are in power -- let the political institution remove its dirty hands from this institution. He's talking about betrayal, and I want to answer that.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0184par0047	You could have asked before the vote, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0048	Make the vote...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0184par0049	We took a vote, we closed the deal, we passed the clause.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0050	Mr. President, I told you I'd ask after I've voted.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0186par0051	Will the time for insults pass, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0052	I told you I'd request it after the vote, so I sat down.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0186par0053	He's insulting me.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0054	I've already asked for word before.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0187par0055	Okay, but I'm going to ask you to promise me no hard feelings. You didn't tell me, just...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0056	Mr. President, I stood up, made some claims.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0187par0057	Yes, I understand, I know, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0058	And then you were going to vote, not vote...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0187par0059	So I voted on the item, and we moved on to another item.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0060	It's like this: I said, "I'll make a request after the vote."
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0187par0061	Okay, go ahead, I'm not going into polymics with you. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0066	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, for one thing, the speaker was a lawyer, a lawyer, a lawyer for many years. He's talking about some signs here. Look, whatever you've got, whatever you've got, please take them to the first DA's office in the early hours of the morning and report them. I'm asking you, please take it away.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0188par0068	Take away the ones concerning Melih Gökçek.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0069	Please take him away.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0188par0070	Let's meet tomorrow in front of the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0185par0071	It's a map, these are suspended, these were replaced, they've been relieved of their duties... Dear friends, people who leave the mission, people who come on duty. Lawmakers, we're here today, we're not tomorrow, other friends come, none of us are going to stay where we come from forever. We come, we serve a semester, then we go somewhere else, that's it. I'm here, I'm staying here for 30 years; there's no such thing. There's a management there, plus, minus, it's going to be evaluated anyway, but why are they going? Why are 30 years of suppliers being replaced? There's a sign of corruption here. Look, there have been significant achievements in the defence industry during our time in power. Locality has increased over 65 per cent of the defence industry, the local resources of the Armed Forces. This is a first-time rate in Turkey. In this period, drones, MILEM ships, vehicles and equipment needed by many more Armed Forces are produced by national means. I repeat, they are both our distinguished institutions, both our distinguished institutions. Look, with all the paperwork you've got, please go to the first district attorney's office immediately and report a situation like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0189par0077	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0190par0079	Mr. President, there's been some bullying aimed directly at me and my person.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0189par0080	Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0191par0082	He didn't say anything about his target, he said, "Go to the prosecutor's office, report him."
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0192par0083	Go to court. I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0189par0084	He wants to talk about bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0193par0087	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, yes, you're quite right. Will you please pledge to me as the AK PARTY Group that you will not be able to exonerate those criminals when the prosecutions are actually informed of this?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0194par0088	Don't talk about conjecture.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0193par0089	For example, I filed a complaint against the prosecutor's office regarding those who committed the embezzlement of banking, and the prosecutor filed an investigation, but you cleared them with a warrant under the law. Well, let me make another suggestion: let's set up a commission to investigate corruption, come on, let's go. If your heart is going to go through these corruptions, let's set up a commission, support them, and let's go after whoever's corrupting them. Or come, let's set up a anti-corruption bias court. He'll judge those who commit corruption, let's set up a speciality, an expert court. Or, as you say today, go to the prosecutors. When you say, "The prosecutions are full of corruption cases." Let's start with the rabbit, for example, from Bronzebilek. Come on, make a commitment, tell me one prosecutor who's gonna go over the corruption case there. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0195par0093	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. Members of parliament, there are two motions on Article 57, which I will proceed in order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 57 of the Law Charter 57 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamaylıgil Bkent Kuşoğlu Zechariah Şımel Utku Çakrözer The Ancient doesn't stop Erkan Aydın In the first joke of Article 3 of Law 57-4447, the statement was changed in 31/12/2017, and half of the fee for the examination was lifted from the same joke from 1/1/1/2018 to 31/12/2019. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0196par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0195par0110	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0197par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0195par0112	On the motion, Mr. Erkan Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0198par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 57 of Bill 502. I salute your high council. Now, in fact, with this 130-point bag of legislation, the government's final point is that there's cracks in the wall, and it starts to leak, and when you roll it up, it's like a wall with holes in it, and when you roll it up, it's filled with water, it's like a wall. No matter where you close the wall, it gets water, and the end is clear: the wall will collapse one day, and under water, unfortunately, our people will remain untended orphans who pay taxes to this state, and we regret to warn them from here. Now, as we look at it, the Court has just published a report today. Mr. Finance Minister was here, but I guess he's changed. Now, what does the Court say in the external audit report? According to the provisions of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, some ministries have determined that these regulations and regulations are being imposed against accounting records. Now, we were used to it before, there was a covered grant in the prime minister's office, the president went to court, a covered grant in the presidency, and now, according to today's report, there's probably a cover-up tradition in the ministries. Let's see what ministries they are. Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of National Education and EU Ministry. Now, some private accounts have been opened around here. These accounts don't have expenses that normally have to be audited, which should be in accounting records and should be in the budget, but instead... for example, a private account is being set up at the Ministry of Labor and Social Security where the fines are paid from labor fees, collected. Now, why would you go down a road like this? It's normal, I hope Mr. Finance Minister will come and give us a statement as to why the money that has to go through the treasury, why the resources go into a separate account. At the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, it was published in the Court's report today, where collections of measures and measurements were collected in a separate account. In the Gene National Education Ministry, private accounts have been opened in the accounts of the district and district national educational directorates, where funds and resources have been collected. The U.S. Department of the EU, they're more than needed here, but again, they're a separate calculation... so what's been done in these accounts? You're looking at him. The EU Department made a documentary. I mean, almost, again, you know, a sidekick, a stranger, a wife, a friend, a special source of documentaries. So the economy's in a lot of trouble, you're going to collect taxes. You're bringing in additional fines, raising tax rates, putting 6.2 billion euros into the budget of 2018 under the name public-private partnership, and you're charging the citizens for the money of a hospital that he's never been able to cross, but on the other hand, you're charging a government that doesn't know who it's going to -- the source of the money that it's going to -- without account -- and it's not showing who it's going to -- and it's not going to do anything about these things, but it's a government that doesn't do anything. Yeah, well, the day will come when they'll all be accounted for. There's no way to talk about it here in five minutes, ten minutes. But what I'm saying from here is that you can't fix whatever wall you've made with this bill and it's going to collapse today, and instead we're going to build radical solutions together -- not just by some decision taken behind secret doors or at the palace -- let's prevent this wall from falling down in full agreement in Parliament, with the participation of four parties. This ship is taking on water, so let's all stop the ship from going down. After the ship goes down, there's not much left to do, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0199par0127	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be changed in the form of οf the οft, which is part of Article 57 of the Law Bill 502 that is being discussed. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mithat Sancar Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0200par0137	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0199par0138	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0201par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0199par0140	Mardin MP Mithat Sancar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0202par0143	Mr. President, dear friends, the 57th article of the bag bill contains a positive arrangement, envisioning a change in Article 3 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. The topic of change is the extension of the competencies, which are considered to be dangerous and dangerous jobs, as well as the grant of access to this document and the entrance to the examination, and the allowance of its costs under the Unemployment Insurance Act. They're positive, of course, but it's not an issue that can be solved with these measures. The enormous problems in the field of occupational safety and labour health do not seem possible to resolve them with such provisions. Of course, such an arrangement should be made, but when we look at the work health and safety table in Turkey, we can see that what needs to be done is much more radical, much more comprehensive regulations and measures. In the last year alone, in fact, in the year 2017, 182 people died in October 2017, including 1,683 people in the first ten months. I don't mean a business accident, it's not an occupational accident. The accident is an unstoppable event, even if necessary measures are taken to prevent it. It's a painting I'm describing in which the term "murder" is much more appropriate. Look, in the last 15 years, the death toll has been 20,000 since 2002, when the AKP came to power. That's a very high number, dear friends. These are the numbers that can be identified. Currently, Turkey is the European 1st in business killings. So, where'd all the work killings come from? It's not fate, it's not accidents, it's the pain of death because the measures aren't taken. Yes, given the reasons why these are not prevented, the first thing that stands out is the weakness and lack of control of money that needs to be spent for job safety and labour health. So the major accidents and murders that result from the lack of enough supervision of the employer's job safety and the health of the workers make this painting very dark. Other than that, of course, Job Law 4857 was passed by the AKP as soon as it came to power. Here, a flexible and unsecured operation, particularly subcontractor training, was legalized and recently adopted for hire. All of this makes it very difficult to take measures related to occupational health and labour safety. The extraordinary state itself has become a threat to the health and safety of the workers. Yes, in the past year and a half, the rate of death in work killings has increased by 10 percent. Why? Because workers, labor organizations, who want to express the reasons for these murders, face various prohibitions. In addition, strikes are an important means of combat; strikes are banned, the voice of the worker and the weapons of the fight are taken from him. Construction is at the top of the highest sectors of business killings. That's no coincidence. Look, the construction industry has been the largest growing sector in the last 15 years, the AKP's ruling period. In the past 15 years, the construction industry's share of both economic and employment has shown a huge increase. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0203par0152	Here, complete it, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0202par0153	Yeah, it's called the engine of the economy. Let us remind you that there is also an important place in this sector for the arrangements brought in by the law of urban transformation and disaster. If an industry is growing this much, and business killings are increasing rapidly, there's a huge problem. So in this sector, these profits are achieved at the cost of workers' health, safety, and life. Therefore, if you really want to take a serious step towards working health and safety, we need a comprehensive package of regulation based on respect for work, respect for nature, social justice. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0203par0156	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 58, two of which are the same property. The first two proposals I'm going to make are the same, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of Law Bill 502 be removed from the bill. Mustafa Kalayci Saffet Sandzak Baki Lightning Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mithat Sancar Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan Saadet Capaklı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0204par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0203par0173	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0205par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0203par0175	The first speaker on the same proposals is Mr Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0206par0178	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our party's group on Article 58 of the bill we discussed. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Congressmans, as you may recall, we have made some criticism of similar provisions here as Law Bill No. 7033, known in public as the production reform, was adopted. There are some changes in the Organised Industry Law, which was introduced in 2000 during the 57th Government since its ink was dry, again with this clause. Now, once again, I'd like to point out from this stand to you and the public. For one thing, we had a fundamental purpose when we took out this Organised Industrial Law during the 57th Government. That was our goal: We first prepared this law to ensure that these areas remain whole, and so far, these regulations have always been so. However, the next arrangement now presents a number of regulations that will allow these OSB parcels to be split open and opened to Ranta, lawmakers. Now, of course, this is an app that doesn't match the OSB philosophy, which contradicts it. Parsel, land regulations and such methods, in fact, when we look at them, are not an approach to improving production, efficiency, or the use of advanced technology in OSBs. It's not the kind of approach the majority expects anyway, Mr. lawmakers, they have expectations of us, the Parliamentary General Assembly and the residency commissions, aimed at boosting a different number of production techniques. Unfortunately, such expectations are not met by such legislation. There are applications in developed countries. When we look at these applications, most of these OSBs are converted into industrial parks, where they use different production techniques, where there are applications for increasing production and development of employment, and there are legal regulations for that. Now, when we look at it, valuable lawmakers, I also think that in these areas, there should also be cooperation with scientific institutions, such as universities and academic circles, and I think that if the university-industrial framework is really applied, if it's really acted on its purpose, then a project can also be formed between universities and OSBECs and a synergy. But now that we're looking at these areas of technology development, they're also legalized by a law issued during the 57th Government, dear friends. I think that the support for the faculty in those areas should also be given to organised industrial areas. If we're going to make a change in the Law on Organised Industry, which is Law 4562, then I've just said that the gold should be kept in front of us -- and I'm highlighting it again -- it should be to bring in applications and new political instruments for further efficiency, for greater efficiency. Dear friends, if we set out here, we can predict that the sustainable numbers of this year's growth will not come up much further. Because the poor course in efficiency, unfortunately, looks like it's going to be reflected in the growth numbers. In order for sustainable and quality growth to happen, I think that in order for our country to survive the medium-income trap, we need to focus on more technologies, intensive investments, and increase efficiency, in his view, especially on some measures aimed at boosting labour efficiency. Dear lawmakers, once again, I say this is not the time to make land and parcel arrangements in the OSBs, but rather the time to invest in investments that need to be reorganised to increase production, bring reform and forward technology investments. Once again, I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0207par0188	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On the other motion of the same nature, Mr. Saadet Skills, the Batman MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0208par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The bag we've been discussing for days has been changed in Article 58, Article 4562 of the Law on Organised Industry. This law, which has been adopted and changed 15 times since 2000, means that in its system, there's a problem with its language, which is that there's always a problem with practice and a constant change. If this law had been discussed in the Commission, if the proposals had been paid attention, if the objections had been paid attention, perhaps the law would have been much healthier in the coming process, but unfortunately, the debates were not answered in any way, the objections were never answered in any way. So it is clear now that this law, which has changed 15 times, will change again in the coming process. If a change is being made, the first goal is to ensure that companies that will produce in line with needs work in a healthier environment and that the safety measures of work must be taken. You know, in Turkey, unfortunately, when we look at the world scale, there are serious business killings. This law was to be considered first. Again, it is also a critical issue to be criticised for days and tried to be brought before us in a manner like other substances, despite the objections made by the Commission -- I just told you. Look, in the debates, the offer to keep the land of the industrial zones established before this law much older than the date of its purchase was not accepted. Instead, it is a very recent date, whether July 2017 is based or not, which, of course, brings to mind the constant influence that you object to. It is also common that treasures in organised industrial areas have been bought for the sake of Rant, and then given to rent for very low prices. Again, in fact, with the small industrial sites that remain in the city and the small tradesmen eat their bread, the site is used as a construction site, and our cities that have already returned to the concrete pile will become even more concrete, and it will take an even uglier image, and it will create a serious basis for both pollution and air pollution. As a result, I believe that this law that was brought to the General Assembly without resolving the concerns of the government's economy, which was given at low prices for different purposes, should be immediately removed from this bag, perhaps even as a whole, as a whole, as a whole, the laws in the bag should be withdrawn as a whole. The power, despite demands, objections, is creating a constant tension, which we've seen here for days. There's a constant tension with the objections against these laws, a tension is being created, and this tension is being kept alive. However, we are forced to live in a political climate where racism, war instigation, sectarianism, misogynistic practices, and approaches are even heavier. The developments in domestic and foreign policy have left the country facing serious and political risks and threats, especially the economy and the economy, to continue to govern the country and the state of emergency, which has been affected by very large populations. The gap between the unfair revenue distribution has grown further and further throughout the AKP's rule to the extent that it will seriously undermine society. And it's pretty clear that the laws that are going to come out of the law are going to cause a lot of economic and social problems to the majority of society, but for some reason, the AKP government has closed its ears and ignored a lot of things. It is clear that while the power is already handing out ladle to the capital sector, it gives the worker, the worker, the funny raises, like a great deal of good news; and very soon, it takes back those increases either by connecting them to automatons or again with additional increases, with taxes. Of course, here, more than half of the society that doesn't get along is being loaded into credit cards to get by, and when you can't pay your credit cards, there's a serious crisis and social problems. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I finish, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0209par0203	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0208par0204	Thank you. It's not just about credit cards, look, it's really out there in society, and it's loan sharking. In this regard, the government has no measures, and people who are seriously in debt are either shot or killed by loan sharks who can't get what they owe, or somehow commit suicide in the face of debt that they can't afford anymore. Now, a democratic government has a claim like that -- it has a responsibility to meet the demands, demands of millions of citizens, and it has to do so. For him, what needs to be done today, rather than with public resources, I salute all of you, is a fair share and a fair share of laborers to increase the well-being of workers, a productive economy with democratic planning.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0210par0208	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 58 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Nurşat Altaca Kayışoğlu Haydar Akar Article 18 of Article 18 of the Organised Industrial Territories Law, dated 58 - 12/4/2000, has been changed as follows. "In the OSBs, a participant or a tenant can produce facilities in industrial facilities. The OSBs established as part of the interim Article 5 are exempt from the restrictions taken in this joke, and are defined by Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, dated 13/1/2011. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0211par0221	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0210par0222	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0212par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0210par0224	On the motion, Mr. Tahsin Tarhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0213par0227	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 58 of the Law Bill 502. I salute the General Assembly. Three months ago, Article 58 (58), which came to the Industrial Commission, was withdrawn by the votes of all members of the Commission. Article 58 is the rental of industrial sites in the OSB. Dear MPs, one of Turkey's biggest problems was warped urbanization, but also distorted industrialization. Organised industries ahead of warped industrialization. We have 304 organised industries in Turkey. The industrial sites we should be proud of are here. The workshops that used to be in the neighborhood grew and created industry. Organised industries are areas where Turkey, even Europe, will be proud today. The Organised Industry Act has really been drafted recently by opposition and ruling lawmakers. With the latest law we've done, we've brought exemptions, including stamping taxes on organised industries, property taxes, and we've supported industrialists. In this law, if we authorize the lease, dear lawmakers, it concerns 134 organised industries. We've had complaints from only five industrial sites. These are made up of the temporary 5th article, which we can solve with the temporary 5th article; the twotelli, the Beylikdüzüzü, Dudullu, Maslak, the capital, OSB, and there are five problems in the industry. But we also add the 1st and 2nd article to the temporary 5th article. However, as Turkey's pupil, think about it, in Gebze Organised Industries, in Izmir Ataturk OSB, we give the authority to rent out all the factories. So imagine, we can divide a factory and rent it out to four people, and with that, we'll open up the front of the line. Our biggest problem is warped urbanization, warped industrialization. Now, we're going back. We divide and rent organized industries, and because of this rent income, all these factories will fall into the hands of the manufacturers, into the hands of the real estate market. We say, "Come, let's remove the temporary 1 and 2th and solve the 5th. Let's not solve the problems of five organised industries, which are only troubled, and let's not give them the authority to hire these OSBs. Dear MPs, if we're going to build domestic automobiles in Turkey, if we're going to build domestic aircraft, if we're going to create technology, if we're going to convert technology into information, if we're going to make development, we're going to do it with industry. I'm saying we shouldn't let the industry and the organized industrial zones go back to the Rant area in a way that's so vital. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0214par0234	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0215par0236	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0214par0237	I told you, and then you told me, Mr. Special. It could be the next item. Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0215par0239	I want it in the substance vote.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit07spe0214par0240	Okay. The motion is not accepted. I will submit the clause to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0214par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 58 of the Law Bill No. 502 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We continue the talks of Bill 502. The commission and the government are in place. In Article 59, there are four proposals, two of which are the same. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 59 of Law Bill 502 be removed from the bill. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Simsek Zühal Topcu Saffet Sandzak Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mithat Sancar Muslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0216par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0214par0020	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0217par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0214par0022	Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0218par0025	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the National Movement Party Group on Article 59. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. In the first part of the article we discussed, the need for housing is envisioned to be sold as a priority for residents, except for those used by defence, security, justice and intelligence services, for those who have completed ten years of public housing to the economy. The Ministry of Finance is appointed to determine the procedures and bases of this issue and to address doubts due to implementation, as well as to the dwellings related to local administrations. As it is known, the sale of public housing and social facilities has always been on Turkey's agenda. It's usually about additional funding and public savings, but it's also about populist rhetoric. The aim of this bill is to bring public housing into the economy. However, I'd like to point out a few issues that might raise some public hesitation. One is that the need for housing in some places may not only be necessary for security, justice and intelligence personnel, but also for other public personnel. As a matter of fact, there may be serious difficulties in dealing with teachers, medics, and academic staff. It must be remembered that housing is an important element for people who have difficulty providing employees. Second, the fact that the residents are in the housing area in the history of sales provides an advantage compared to public employees may lead to the expectations and demands of other public officials. And thirdly, they're concerned about the possibility that these sales will be made with some kind of profiling understanding. As a matter of fact, some privatisations and sales in the past provide the basis for this concern. Therefore, it would be appropriate to consider this arrangement and its further applications in this framework. Dear lawmakers, the second part of the substance is about the sale of ownership of treasured farmland to tenants on specific terms. Although the Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands 6292 has been allowed to be sold to the rightful owners of the treasured farmland, the property of the municipality and the mujavir area has not been sold to its rightful owners. Because of this provision, those who have been outside the city and the mujavir area and who have been renting treasured farmland for at least three years since 31/12/2011 have been able to buy the same conditions, even though they are neighbors, they have not been able to buy the land that they rent, use or share in the treasure that they own in the municipality and the mujavir area. It is also known that we have many victims. The arrangement also allows for the sale of treasured farmland within the municipality and the mujavir area. In many parts of Turkey, our citizens have long-term permanent problems using their treasure fields to pay for or rent or to use them in forest cadastros. They've been using these lands for many years from grandfather and father, but they don't own the deed. Selling the land to its users is a subject that occasionally comes up and some arrangements have been made in the past. In particular, we find it necessary to address and resolve such shortcomings, which have been a victim to our citizens, the small-income farmers and forest farmers who make a living here. However, the important thing to be aware of here is the necessity to avoid attempts and regulations, especially that may lead to sharing or attracting high rates. The goal here is not to share rants, but to uphold the rights of our citizens who live on agriculture. It is also imperative that the application be subjected to effective supervision. I salute you with these thoughts.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0219par0035	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0220par0039	Mr. President, I've made a commitment on my group's 59th Amendment. In addition to the Law, the sale of public housing is being opened, and we can say this very briefly. Now, what can happen after this arrangement, if it becomes legal? It is possible to sum it up and draw it in general: As we know, most public dwellings are located in city centers and even in the most decent areas of urban centers, often known as valuable locations. The location of the highways, police quarters, military housing are found in really good areas, decent areas. With Kent growing up, they're actually worth something more. Now, right here in the big cities, the emergence of new capital flows is going to happen directly. However, the Chamber of Architects Ankara Department has also declared that they do not approve and oppose the assessment of public housing, which is a registered cultural presence, within the scope of this sale. Now, most of the housing is also a very important part of the city's culture and its identity. So it's not that hard to say that it's the rant that's been satisfied with the sale of these, and that it's the Rant that's being transferred to its own environment, to its followers. So the previous apps clearly reveal that. Hence, the reason for these arrangements is indicated to be unsubstantiated to the earthquake, but this also points to another oasis. It's in buildings that can't withstand an earthquake, which means that by now public employees shouldn't be alive, they should be able to withstand an earthquake. And that's actually a reason to justify it. So it's going to be a bill for the poor, the laborer, the employee's salary. It is clear that the reason for this bill is the deficit in the budget, which is why public goods have been tried to be dispossessed. Our proposal, as the People's Democratic Party, is that public housing remains in the hands of the public in terms of public interest, and that these earthquake-proof dwellings are recycled by public hands, and that public personnel continue to live in the public domain of their property in these areas. So we suggested that it be removed from the draft text. Of course, public housing should also be assigned, not only to a particular population; it should be assigned to workers, to officers in different areas, as well as to the principle of being a social state. The social government is the state that has to provide housing for its employees at the same time as low wages, rents. The constitution must also be fulfilled according to the principle of our social state. As you may recall, in 1984, the TOKI, the first reason it was set up, was that the need for housing of poor people would be met with TOKI, but today, with urban transformation, we see that poor areas have been completely liquidated in urban areas, and the character of producing luxury housing for the capital parts of TOKI. Let's look around, there's a serious identity change in TOKI, not the poor, but the citizens who are above a certain level of income can only live there. This is against public interest, just to save the day, and in order to overcome the ruling party's economic recession, these public housings will actually be offered for sale. We think that's the motive in the background of this substance. Finally, I would like to set an example for Saraçoglu neighborhood in Kızılay. The real estate estate was transferred to the real estate investment partnership, Saraçoglu neighborhood, and soon we'll all be watching it together, where we'll see that the land value is very high and that the area is part of the city's identity is going to fall into the hands of other parts, and there'll be a follow-up. Therefore, I would like to express the removal of this clause from the bill on behalf of our party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0221par0047	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with some of the laws of the Law and the Law, which have been established in the 502 rows, we propose that the Article 59 of the Law shall be changed in Articles of the Law and Law shall be evaluated by Article 59/6/2001 of the Article 29/6/2001 of the Law and the provision of the Unmovable Property of Treasures of 4706 and the amendment of the Law shall be taken out of Articles (1). With all due respect. Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Zechariah Şeşel Bihlun Tamayligil Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakırözer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0222par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0221par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0223par0062	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0221par0063	Ankara MP Murat Amir on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0224par0066	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. One of the ways they've been invented is to find money in 61 separate areas and try to match a budget that's riddled with holes in it, and one of the ways they've found it is a housing sale. And I have made a commitment to the sale of the estate. Now, recently, Mr. Prime Minister said it was time for public luxury, end of reign. It was actually a good thing, but it was also a diagnosis. So your 15 years of power reigned and ruled Turkey in luxury. If it were the prime minister of a year, two years of government who made that determination, maybe we could understand. But when the last Prime Minister of a 15-year government puts it that way, we can't get past this discrepancy, dear friends. Now, housing is being sold here, but there's a finesse here, and I'd like to point out that in 2016, the Ankara Metropolitan Assembly made a decision, and in this decision, it provided official status for the housing that we count within a monument site. And when we wanted to get some information about it, it was said that these places now appear to belong to the Ministry of Defense as empty parking spaces. So we did it at the request of the Ministry of National Defense, and we registered it as a residence. Two other things were done while this was being done. Because we said at the time: 'If you call them "lojman," then clear the way for them to be nationalized and to be registered as part of a memorial compound. This was not done.' At the same time, 12 acres of new zoning permits were issued within the Memorial, and in fact, an important threat was created to the Memorial. When we brought this up, we were told: "Don't worry, the hands who look at the Memorial will be broken, and no one can look at the Memorial side. " So first, you formalize the parking lot, you officially declare it a residence, and now with this bag of laws, you open the way for the sale of housing. Honey, where do you get that from? We don't have that problem with Memorial. You can say that, but we know you. We know about you from your past, and we know about your problems with Ataturk, and with the Memorial. And we warn you from here: don't try to sell the monuments and the housing in the area around it, don't try to get a runt from there, and don't even think about any move towards the spiritual person of Ataturk. Now, you may accuse me of being a busybody, but I'm going to quote you a little bit from the past and read you a text, dear friends. I'll tell you the date, give you a hint: November 10, 1996. The person says: "I have been to the ceremonies today, crying my heart out. Do you remember who this person was? Look, the Kaisers know, Kayseri Mayor Şükrü Karatepe.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0225par0072	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0226par0073	Congressman, about how many years ago...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0224par0074	Thank you, Karatepe may have said that, but where do dear friends now, what do they do, Şükrü Karate? He is now the President's Chief Councilor. (HPP clapping in rows) This is important, my dear. You can't say that you said it 20 years ago.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0225par0075	Don't bend those words. The court has decided.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0224par0076	Look, this mind, the mind and the hatred of the Muslims, which go in tears of blood to the Memorial, shall hold it in them. The wisdom and the love of Ataturk, which is false today, shall be in the palace. This is an important problem, and you need to take it seriously, dear friends. See, we are very pleased with the love of Ataturk, and we are very pleased with the respect of the Memorial. We have no doubt that all of you have as much respect, love, and conversation as we do.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0225par0078	It shouldn't be. Ataturk doesn't belong to you alone.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0224par0079	But everyone, in fact, has to identify and expose those who have false Ataturk's love, and fake Ataturkers. I present this to your attention, so that you may discuss it. And I'd like to note, dear friends, that the love of Ataturk is such a beautiful thing that even a fake is beautiful. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0083	Thank you, Mr. Emir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the fifth joke, which envisions the addition of Article 59/12/2011 to Article 4 of Law No. 4706 to Article 4 of the Law on Changing Some Laws and Some Laws on Some Other Laws, which have been held 502 rows, we propose and propose that "those who have completed ten years of public housing should be replaced by"30/3/2014. Mehmet Mush Ramazan Can Nazim Mavis Ayşe Doğan Hulusi Şenturk Mehmet Kabbat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0228par0093	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0094	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0229par0095	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0096	I'm reading the reason: With the motion, it is possible to remove the ten-year limit for the sale of public dwellings and to sell new dwellings, and to allow those who live in these dwellings to receive their housing at the same price that will be in the tender, primarily, to obtain their property, and to eliminate the conflicts of the treasures of the municipality and the mujavir area, which remain within the territory of the city and its subservient areas, in order for our citizens to obtain the land that they use for this substance.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0230par0099	Let's take a number of decisions and see how much the ruling party joins in while we vote on the motion you've given us.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0100	You want the number of decisions enough?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0230par0101	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0102	Okay. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 60th article, two of which are the same property, and the first two proposals I'm going to make are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 60th article of the current Law Bill 502 rows be removed from the bill. Mustafa Kalayci Saffet Sandzak Baki Lightning Zühal Topcu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ertugrul Kürklüm Müslüm Doğan Mithat Sancar Ziya Pir Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0231par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0232par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0227par0122	Mr. Baki Simsek is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0233par0125	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 60 of Law Bill 502. Before I begin, I ask Allah's mercy to Specialist Sergeant Ismail Doğan from the village of Doğlu of Mersin Mezitli, who was a martyr in the gunfight with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) traitors in Ağrı Eleşkirt. My condolences to all of Mersin and Turkey. I'd like to talk to you about the item brought in about the sale of the treasures that remain within the city's municipal borders. Of course, we look positively in general at the sale of structured subsidiaries with matter and unstructed subsidiaries of treasure. However, we believe that the transfer of the sites with a particular cultural presence, with historical artifacts, to the municipality, and the sale of them, should be reconsidered. Otherwise, many people who have previously stayed within the city limits and have not benefited from this right are victims. It's a positive thing to open up. Of course, there's a lot of problems with treasured land, not just with sales, but with rentals, with personal gardening. In areas 2/B, again within the city limits, think of two neighboring parcels, the people who own two of them are different people. With the development plan, this region is declared a tourist area. A person who uses it as a 2/B gets the right, the other citizen gets the right, the government takes his place without paying for it. There's a loss of rights here. We think that in sales of 2/B, in tourism areas, the rights to the rights of the rights of those who remain within the zoning plan, the state should pay the price for these people, just as it does to other 2/B owners. Of course, the biggest problem we have with the treasures is that they immediately hand over their treasures to the Ministry of Finance in two lines of writing, especially in areas that have been built in urban areas. It is not possible for a country to grow up just building houses, building apartments. Today, there are thousands more dwellings in Ankara and thousands more in Eskişehir Road. THE task of the TOKI is to do what contractors can't do, to do what citizens can't do, to do urban transformations, but today, TOKI is making millions of dollars in real estate or construction housing from Finance, National Realty, which is very high in the city. It is possible for all of you to see these dwellings in Eskişehir Road, and in Tüzk. WE believe that the TOKI (TİKI) should first transform urbanally, and that the Finance should not hand over such places to the TOKI (TİKİ). Also, another important issue: TOKI again took over many of the stadiums in the city centers, making new stats outside the city, especially my constituency, Mersin, outside the city center, where the status at Mersin was immediately on the beach, in the most beautiful part of the city, and in the distance of the people. He took over this stadium, built a stadium outside the city where people couldn't get out of the city by car, without a parking lot, and he couldn't go within walking distance, and today there are at least half the people going to the game. They say we'll build a mall and a dwelling in the downtown area. The center of the city must be re-established, or it must be arranged as a square, a park. In addition, another key problem we have with public investments is the discrepancy with institutions regarding the choice of location. Another hospital adventure has been taking place in my constituency, Mersin Tarsus, for over a decade. Two areas to build a hospital are being determined. One area is a swamp, one area is a filling area, the area where the highway fills up. The ministry is making a decision, let's do it in the swamp. The public is reacting, changing, going, doing it in the dolgu area. The experts don't decide that either. Every election is hung on a billboard: we build a city hospital. We did the contract. It's called a contract. It's been two years since the 2015 elections, there's no hospital, there's no tender, there's still no telling where the hospital will be. We don't think it's appropriate for either of us to spend 100-110 million dollars in a hospital in particular, but when the government invests, it says, "Let the land be free." If there is no free space, a hospital will be built for $110 million, then a whole Republic of Turkey must buy a place that will make the state a hospital and invest the hospital in the right place. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0234par0134	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0235par0138	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, if this 60th article were to be so, what would happen if it were so, so I won't dwell on the matter for long, but I want to stay on the bag of law. Because basically the bag is the law itself, making a bag of laws was a crime in Roman law. And we see that there's a very understandable reason for that when we look at Roman law. Because when you tried to fit conflicting, separate interests into one law, the citizens who would soon be able to break the elements of it could make the wrong decisions because they couldn't exactly put their minds to any of them, and then those laws would have to be annulled. So the only law, the only subject, has given itself the principle of Roman law, and it has been a principle that has basically guided all modern law for many years and centuries. Now, there's nothing in this that can't be understood, and that's all we're arguing about -- in fact, Roman law was preventing it because it was a bribe, so using it as bait to enact one issue. That's exactly what our bag laws are, so according to Roman law, in fact, we commit an extremely severe crime because making a bag of laws was illegal in Rome. But now that Turkey is free, it's opened up, but we've had an interesting development together; since the rule of the bag of laws became a principle, Roman law in law schools has stopped working since 2009, and Roman law classes have not been mandatory. So when the House left its only rule of law, the law schools found it appropriate to leave Roman law. But it's like giving up the Newtonian law in physics. If you don't teach Newtonian law, you can't teach others, nor can you, in fact, do anything about physics; you can only juggle. Just as it is, when you give up Roman law to break the only rule of law, you basically give up law. So, I think we can say that Turkey is essentially out of order in both law school and law production, but we insist on doing so. The meaning of Roman law used to be that, in a way, the sum total of order and rule was originally expressed in Roman order. So it was said: "All roads lead to Rome." But once you go off the road, you don't need law or Roman law, then the bag law becomes your principle. And in fact, with the bag of law, you've done nothing but bribe other matters to legalize one issue. I don't know what to say to a council that looks good on him, a government that looks good on him. That's why I'm asking God to make it right.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0236par0144	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of the number 502 clause of the bill, which is being discussed, in the following way, in the following way. Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi The Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Utku Çakrözer Tule Karbük Kemal Zeybek In the first joke of Article 5 of the Law of 4076, the sentence added to the following sentence in the sixth joke was changed from the time of the article's last joke, which was written in the form of "29/3/2014," which was written in the form of "19/7/2003" (29/2014/2014). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0237par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0236par0158	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0238par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0236par0160	Mr Kemal Zeybek will speak on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0239par0163	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. I have taken a pledge from some Tax Laws, whose number is 502, on the 60th Amendment to the Law and Law Act. I salute the General Assembly again. My fellow lawmakers, on November 10, 2016, I offered the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a law to change this bill. We are pleased that this bill is accepted today by the ruling party as well, that it has been changed in the same way, and in this regard, during previous preparations by the Republican People's Party, during the local elections, during the 2014 local elections, the political party that raises elections to its side, in its favour, in order to change the elections on its side, in order that we demand that all the assets of the people that date 2003... have been left on their ancestors, or left on bricks, put bricks on stone on the stone, and built on its own, and we demand that our citizens, who have acquired property on their own side, on their own side, on their own side, on their own side. Of course, we see that this is not being given, that this is being blocked by this bag of legislation, that this clause, in some way, has come to the attention of the idea that it should be contributing to the budget right now. We're pleased that Law 4706 -- given in the previous commission -- has made a motion today by the ruling party, which is 29/3/2014, to have all the structures prior to the 2014 local elections on the same agenda and to make such changes. With this bill, we demand that the structures of our citizens on public land and the structures that our citizens have built on their land -- with change, the solutions, the fundamental solution of the problem -- the structures of our citizens on these land, their rights on their land -- be comforted by the government, by our party, and by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We don't find it right to sell these structures that were built during the Republic administrations, where the government couldn't finish the books, but when they didn't keep the accounts, we don't approve of the demand to re-sell the property they acquired in the presence of the citizens, destroying the earnings of the citizens from the past. There's nothing in the bag law that would benefit citizens from this change. So in this bag, there's no income saver for the farmer, for his employee, for his pension, for his business, for his small income, for his industrialist, for their own interests. We know that the owners of power are in politics, from the earner in a narrow-income way, from the co-workers to the capital, and from the capital structure of this capital in a way that makes our business desperate. What has been done so far is against the public reselling the property of the people in a way that is not on the side of the public, that is not on the side of the citizen, that is not on the side of the public, that the government doesn't care. Today -- our proposal -- as we have submitted in our proposal of the law -- I wish that the amendment of this law, dated 29 March 2014, would be good for our people, for our citizens, and my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0240par0170	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that some Tax Laws 502 and other Laws shall be changed in the form of 30/3/2014, which is expected to be replaced in the sixth joke of Article 4706 and Article 5 of Law 60/06. Mehmet Mush Ramazan Can Nazim Mavis Ayşe Doğan Hulusi Şenturk Mehmet Kabbat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0241par0180	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0240par0181	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0242par0182	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0243par0183	Motive...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit08spe0240par0184	I'm reading the reason: Between 19/7/2003 and 30/3/2014, it was intended by our citizens to be transferred to municipalities to deal with property issues, to resolve conflicts with our citizens, to include them in urban transformation through municipalities, and thus to ensure more efficient and efficient use of the treasure deposits. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0240par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 502. The commission and the government are in place. There are four proposals on the 61st article, two of which are the same. I'm processing the motions according to the order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 61 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Erdal Atash Meral Danış Beştaş Suryet Taşdemir Feleknas Uca Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0244par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0240par0014	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0245par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0240par0016	İstanbul MP Erdal Atash on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0246par0019	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're discussing another item that will sell one of Turkey's most valuable areas and legitimize illegal sales. Unfortunately, despite all objections to ecology, both public and ecology organizations, the current government constantly redesigns environmental substances over and over again to our agenda. Today, the areas in the public's hands are being opened with a new clause about coastal lanes and our cultural assets. In Article 43 of the Constitution, titled "Results are under the government's rule and auspices. With the sea, lake and river coasts, the shorelines surrounding the shores of the sea and lakes are primarily a public benefit. To date, despite all this declaration, the current government had been prevented from renting all these shores for forty-nine years -- including those before that -- and the public's use of them. At this stage, we're looking at a new arrangement that can sell all of these public assets. A substance that violates the Constitution, the laws of the coastal and forest is now being tried to be passed by hiding in a bag of legislation. This evil within the law, these evils that have been tried to hide, those who have invested in the coastal and forests of the public, in the realms of judgment and austerity, have somehow made various commitments to the public, using them in their own way. There were a number of penalties and sanctions being applied in case people who said they would invest in these areas, who would consider the benefit of the public, who made commitments to these areas, were under way, but now despite all the cases related to all these penalties, unfortunately, the current government now, let alone the compensation or public benefit, now offers the fines that will be applied to people who have to enforce all of these fields. If this clause becomes legal, all of the valuable assets found all over Turkey will be offered to the market, and Galata will be sold in Istanbul, where I am a MP, and Kadiköy will be sold, Fashion, Harem will be sold, and the sale of all these public assets will be opened. Projects such as Galataport, Halicport, have been opened to people's profits for forty-nine years, sold to companies. We've repeatedly expressed the dangers of renting these sites to private companies for forty-nine years, with a very valuable historical memory in terms of the history of architecture that cost them the world's architectural heritage. But unfortunately, with all due respect to these projects that are now disrupting the fabric of the city, all of them will be taken from the public for the rest of their lives by offering to sell completely. If this law passes, even if the State finds it against the public interest and cancels, all these policies will not interfere with the sale. People who pay the court expenses, who owe so far, who are guilty of the law, will have bought all of these places before they got caught in court. The fill-up of the sea for the thermal plant in Çanakkale Karabiga will be legalized by this law, all illegal fillings in Maltepe and Yenikapı. If this law passes, the coasts that will now completely disrupt the ecosystem, and new projects that will destroy all the others, such as Canal Istanbul, will eliminate our conditions to oppose filling areas, opening underwater channels. Giving the shores to a private person would be more than a public benefit to damage the ecosystem in our country, and the seas would be finished. On the basis of the sale of coastal areas, he will build marinas, fills, asks, and build hotels, so that the areas where they live -- which are home to millions of marine creatures -- will be destroyed. Since budget talks have been held today, the budget of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs has already been set up for these areas, including sales and rent revenues. This law must be withdrawn at once, and it must be used by the public for the benefit of the public. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0247par0027	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly From Article 61 of the Law Bill 502, which is currently in session, it can also be assessed by being sold to investors and entrepreneurs who have been assigned or established the right to altitude. We propose and propose that the statement be taken out. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı The signatures of the other motion are: Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Zechariah Şeşel Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Tulip Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0248par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0247par0048	Government?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0249par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0247par0050	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0250par0053	Mr. President, I have made a motion on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding Article 61 of Law Bill 502. On this occasion, I salute you and our fellow saints watching us on the screens. Dear MPs, our country has unique historical and natural beauty. Unfortunately, there are many problems in our country, which is surrounded by seas and has world-famous, brand tourist destinations, with the allocation of coastlines, beaches, and similar tourist destinations to investors. For example, my constituency area is the longest coastline in Turkey with a shoreline of 1,420km. You'll appreciate that our Mugla is a province with countless coves, world-famous beaches, beaches, and unique beauty. In our city, where millions of local and foreign tourists are hosted each year, there is a need to make arrangements for the allocation of these areas on the coastline to investors. The project of structures and facilities that will be built on the land on which the contract is concerned is tendered before architecture is determined. If he later took allies in these areas, different treatments are made if he did not take allies. However, according to the aesthetics of these areas, the plans must be set for a suitable project and the competition in the tender must be created. Otherwise, a lot of business managers don't take part in the tenders around here, and the land falls cheaply into the hands of dealers. That's why the treasure is at stake. In particular, it is a victim to our citizens that all the beaches and coves assigned to investors for a certain price are paid for. High entry fees are the main problem of not making the required structures and facilities promised. These areas are reserved for one person for a very long period of time, as well as other challenges. The extension of the deadline and the rental agency must constantly monitor the tenants or tenants for whether they act in accordance with the contract. On the other hand, a citizen who's going into the sea with his family is unfortunately unable to enter the free sea where he was born and grew up. While these sites are being allocated, it will be a solution for our citizens to not be able to collect the entire land, to ensure that some of it is used as a free and socially low-paying public beach, because our Constitution states that the coast belongs to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are some things we must remember when we do these things. We didn't inherit this land from our ancestors. This land has been entrusted with its mountain, its stone, its plain, its sea, its beach, and its saintly tradition for generations to come. It is our duty to take care of this relic. That's what our beloved nation expects of us. So these fields can't be allowed to become someone's rant door. We can't just stand by and watch all our citizens lose the naturality of these places that they have the right to use because it's going to benefit one person or one group; it's time to focus on these issues. Once again, the allocation of all the coves to open up will make it impossible for them to travel in the Aegean region to make a very important tourist revenue. The blue journey is the highest form of tourism in our region today. In this regard, it is wrong for all of these coves to be rented, assigned, to be sold, to be sold, forty-nine years is a long time, and they need to be shorter. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0251par0061	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On the other proposal of the same nature, Congressman Serdal Welcuoğlu... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0252par0065	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 61 of the Law of the Law and the Law. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement, are planning to buy revenue by selling the rental dwellings. With this coverage, the government, which should be a social state, gives up some of its opportunities for public employees. The housing must be renovated and used again to benefit the public. The state must at least continue to make it easy on its staff, which it cannot afford. If the government's empty vault is left with the money from the houses to sell, then what a state for Turkey! Instead of extending rents or selling allocations, we need very different measures to get our tourism back on its feet and to improve. The first requirement for the revival of tourism is to repair the lack of democracy. To do that, you have to be a democratic country, and the State of Emergency must rise. The second is peace, peace and security. Third, rule of law. The fourth is to be smooth with neighboring and other countries. We're not exactly fulfilling those terms right now. Under the circumstances, it's hard for the industry to grow. Dear lawmakers, tourism is what we call a chimneyless industry. Turkey invested over 100 billion dollars in tourism investments, starting in the 1960s. The tourism industry also creates intensive employment because it is also a service industry. Turkey also has over 1.5 million people who earn their living and earn their living from the tourism industry. Tourism is a way for our people of other countries to merge with our people of our country, to recognise our people, our culture, to be environmentally sensitive, an important source of foreign currency, to play an important role in closing the current deficit in high countries such as Turkey. Dear friends, my constituency area of Mersin is a serious domestic tourist centre with what we call more than 100,000 summer homes and second dwellings. The Kazan-Tarsus tourism area, which has been on the agenda for many years, has turned into a story of snakes. For ten years, AKP ministers have sold this story in every election period, but we have not been able to reach a conclusion. The Tarosian-Winning tourism zone was earmarked seven years ago. At the 2013 Mediterranean Games in Mersin, the tourism zone will be finished and athletes will remain at these facilities has been announced by then Minister Zafer Çağalan at a press conference held at Tarsus Falls -- taking in investors as well. The companies that were collected were also given places from Antalya territory, but they were assigned one from the area in Mersin, but the companies that built the facilities in Antalya were not even nailed in Mersin. Instead of extending your allocations, make sure the constructions are assigned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are seven tourist sites in Mersin, which have been declared for years, but none of them have happened. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0253par0078	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and to add the following sentence to the first sentence of the temporary article, which is envisioned to be added to Article 61, Article 4706 and Article 4706, under which some Tax Laws and other Laws may be changed. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Kerem Ali Constantly Necip Shield Hulus Senturk Ramadan Can In addition, the lease agreements of investors and entrepreneurs, which are leased up to 29 years to invest in national parks and natural parks by the Ministry of Forest and Waterworks, can be extended to 40,000 years if the conditions specified in this joke are changed to twenty-nine years or by converting to the right to altitude. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0254par0091	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0253par0092	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0255par0093	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0253par0094	I'm having it read. If there is an investment in tourism investment in national parks and nature parks by the Ministry of Forests and Water, if there are all the costs of the hearings of investors and businessmen, if there are any rental agreements on the basis of which they are hired, then all the costs of the trial are accepted, there is no debt to be paid unconditionally, and there is a new contract to be made available within the year of the application of this clause, and a new loan of these investors and entrepreneurs is provided that it can be extended to forty-nine years, in order to ensure that the loans be applied within the same year. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 62, and I will process them according to the order of violations. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 62 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Mahmut Toğrul Feleknas Uca Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Suryet Taşdemir Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0256par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0253par0108	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0257par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0253par0110	On the motion, Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0258par0113	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Yeah, it's November 15th. Just eighty years ago, Seyit Reza was executed from 75 to 57. Before the execution, his last request was asked, and he said, "Give my watch to my son." We'll hang his son too. Then hang me before him. But his 17-year-old son was hanged by being raised to 21. Seyit Reza, who did not hesitate to go to the execution table, said to those who watched his execution, "We are the children of Kerbala, we are the brothers, we are the wicked, it is the cruel, it is the murder." First of all, I honor and honor those people who were murdered on November 15, 1937. Mr. President, the honorary lawmakers, the arrangement for the shores that have just been negotiated, is indeed a great evil, or rather the arrangement that allows the sale of the coasts, a disaster, along with other arrangements. For 15 years, the AKP government has now set its sights on the shores, privatizing everything that belongs to the public. It should be well known, and it is already the Constitution's rule: the coasts are public, and this is the Constitutional law regulation with Article 43. The chapters are under the government's government's rule and saving. ▪ Public benefit is primarily in taking advantage of the shorelines surrounding the sea, lake, and river banks, along the shores of the sea and lakes. According to the purpose of using the coasts and coasts, the depth and conditions of the people are regulated by law, he says. The arrangement, which you have brought in in violation of the Constitution, has again been passed, regardless of any opinion from the surrounding environments, and despite all objections. If an arrangement is intended to be brought, protection principles should not be abandoned; they should be acted in accordance with localisation policies. You ignored that principle again. Yes, we've been talking about justice in taxes for days. And as far as we're concerned, there's no way we can talk about tax justice in an environment where justice is not served. As citizens of this country, we are the most indirect taxpayers in the world, compared to 70 percent. New taxes continue to be imposed on the people, as taxes that cannot be taken from the wealthy, or, in fact, kidnapped, and then pardoned increase. We also see this with the latest examples. While the companies' billions of tax fines were pardoned, the public was burdened with a large amount of tax burdens to contribute to the MTV, the OTV, the Defense Industry Support Fund. The public, on the one hand, pays the price for bridges that the Treasury does not cross because of guaranteed projects, while the state does not go after missed taxes that they can't collect, but also forgives. For example, according to a statement last month by the IRS Presidency, only fuel companies have found about 4 billion euros in tax evasion. Energy, Oil, Gas Supply Stations Employer's Union, according to the president, is only the visible part of the iceberg about the tax leak in the fuel, but what do we do? In most cases today, because of the need for fuel for every family, we get our taxes in advance equal to everyone else's, it's not right, it's wrong to put so much pressure on the public. That pressure's gonna blow one day, lawmakers. Of course, your people will have an answer. Yeah, we said that's not how it's going to work with this bill, that every time the government gets stuck, it's going to have to start looking at poor people's money, and it's going to have to start taxing the wealth, and it's going to increase the income tax of the middle class, and it's going to have to increase the tax obligations of the higher income group. I assure you, this savings will not even have a visible impact on the investors. How do we know that? In the inequality of income distribution, we are actually ranked 12th in the world in the order of dollar billionaires, while we are competing against the last ranking of OECD countries. It's not understandable. What, we don't want rich people? If you say that in a country that sees the lowest bounds of poverty, it's not the enemy of wealth, we want a fair tax on wealth, MPs. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0259par0122	Thank you, Mr. Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 62 of the Law Bill to the amendment of Law and Laws under some Tax Act 502, which is currently in session. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Ancient Durmaz Gülay Backuper Utku Cakirözer Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip The following temporary clause has been added to Law 62-4706. "Investors who are not able to make the committed investment during the period given for non-transmittances which have been passed to real or legal persons without charge or allowed to use for non-perpetuation under Articles 5 of Law 24-4325 and under Article 5084 from date 31/12/2017, are entitled to use the provision of this law within two years of the application date. (AS/TK) Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0260par0137	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0259par0138	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0261par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0259par0140	İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0262par0143	Mr. President, I'm a Republican People's Party MP, but I've been running Istanbul for 23 years, Turkey for 15 years. No matter what I do, you're always being critical, I can't help it, but it's the least I can do on my own. I built malls, I built residences, I built towers, and the next thing I know, it's concrete, concrete, concrete. There's no light in these cities, there's no peace. Did I just betray you? If you're looking for greens, if you're looking for greens, you'll find them in the graveyards in my town. In Istanbul, Selvi is found only in Karacaahmet Cemetery. I destroyed short buildings, I built tall buildings, you don't even thank me. Are you afraid the city will collapse? Let it fall down, and I'll make you a new one, and I'll make you a bigger one, and I'll make you a bigger one, and I'll finish the nearest election, I promise you. If they don't tear down the skyscrapers that were ordered to destroy by court order, I'll be a little offended. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm not taking any earthquake measures in Istanbul, and I don't need to. There were 493 eprem concentration sites, and if there was an earthquake, my people would already find a place to protect themselves, and do they need them? I've built them all, 77 of them left, and I'm going to build them very soon, so don't worry. Never mind, let the cities fall in the earthquake, especially Istanbul, and there's nothing left; I'll make you a new one. Ataturk Cultural Center, I don't think it's soulless, I don't like it, it's not a beautiful structure anyway, I think it's ugly; let me wash it and I'll make a new one, and I'll make a bigger one. One thing they did, the Ataturk Cultural Center was worth, it had cultural value, it was iconic structure, it was city identity, these architects, they're always opposed. What is it, sir? My cab was the center of modernity, modernity, civilization, Istanbul's heart, and there was only one green area, and I coveted it. In London, the public green area was 33 percent, and Istanbul was 2.2. What's not enough for you, 2.2? What were you going to do that you couldn't do? Sir, they say that your authority is reflected as structures of Ranta, green areas being plundered and historically contaminated cities. If there's going to be opposition, lawmakers, I'll do it, and I'll do the best I can. Traffic is a big problem, the cities are open parking lots, and if I raise the gas a little bit more, we get a lot of taxes anyway, and I promise to make bridges and tunnels for the public, and my citizen is a pain in the ass. With all the glory, there's something about the metropolises of the world that makes you unhappy. America has Manhattan, but what's wrong with Manhattan, Bryant Park, Central Park, what's wrong with it? What they say, sir, is that I'm going to pay for the damage I've done to nature, that the illumination of Istanbul was corrupted, that the shoreline was damaged because of the filling fields, and that the cracks in Şemsi Pasha Ashliyı, and that the Halic Metro Bridge, and the destruction of Süleymaniye Mosque, were because of me. By the way, we built 805,000 public dwellings, and we built them all the same, and we copied them from the Van, and we glued them together. It's esthetic, it's urban fabric, it's local identity, see, it's not really necessary, it's not really what architects understand, it's what city planners don't know. The rise in dollar bills has become unstoppable. The shopkeeper was slowly closing the shutters, rents couldn't be paid, minimum wage not even close to the poverty line. The pensioners want a raise, and I've covered my grants, and I can't figure out where these demands come from. Our economy is growing with great stability, don't you see? My authority was the chronology of corruption and decay. My country's been having a bad time every day because of the wrong politics I've been implementing, and the fact that she's ally. Flowers bloom all over my country, and my people are not hungry for peace and justice. These people don't see it, especially the thought of Ce-Ha-Pe-Pe. And, Mr. President, isn't this five minutes too long? What's a congressman, he comes in here, he goes in for a roll call, 30 seconds, he goes out, and he needs five minutes? Soon I'll put on your puppets, and they'll put their hands up and put them down. Thirty seconds isn't enough for what? I salute you all sincerely.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0263par0155	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0264par0158	Mr. President, thank you. Indeed, we have just realized that we are in Parliament with the warning of Mr. Zeyid, whether I am in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or in the theatre. It's a good game, he wrote it himself, he played it himself. There have been 493 locations since yesterday, and I still want a list of those 493 locations.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0265par0161	You're a government party, aren't they giving you the papers?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0264par0162	I'm asking the lady to bring in these 493 places, which the state declared as a gathering area, and then opened to the building, and we'll see. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0265par0164	Mr. President, I'm very sorry, but for the record, if he looks at the court report, he'll see the island, the pafta and the parcels.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0266par0168	Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is held in Article 62 of the Law Bill 502, shall be changed into the form of a special and legal person. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0267par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0266par0178	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0268par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0266par0180	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to clarify matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 63rd article, two of which are the same property. The first two motions I make are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Meral Danış Beştaş Feleknas Uca Surtay Taşdemir Behçet Yıldırım The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0269par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0266par0199	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0270par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0266par0201	Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım on the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0271par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we have finally arrived at the tobacco-related clauses of the 125-130-point bag bill. The Finance Minister says there is no shortage of tobacco producers when a serious reaction to the initial state of this bill, and the producer's obstacles are removed, and the manufacturer can build co-ops if he wants to, and he says he can produce and trade smoked tobacco through these cooperatives. But in the field, it's not very rhetorical. You're out of co-operative tradition, one. You can also sell it with cooperatives. You don't set any tax rates, you don't make any public commitments. Build a cooperative, and I will encourage you, and I will support you with very small taxes. You cannot say. You set up a co-op, bought tobacco from the manufacturer, and you're going to sell it. What's the tax rate? Mystery, no answer. When high taxes come in, is there any chance this is going to compete with other cigarette brands on the market? No. It's very, very difficult to get this job done by cooperatives in a market where big cigarette companies have become monopoly, without very low taxes, without support and incentives. First of all, there's a tax rate of uncertainty. Second, this helix is related to the cost-size tobacco manufacturer, the cigarette wrapping paper and macaroons. Both uncertainty in tax rates and high taxes on macaroons, which have increased 700 per cent in the last week. Because of these, the conditions for cheaply attracting garlic tobacco have been reset. Its essence will be prevented from reaching consumers at a cheaper price. In this way, the consumer will be deterred from this helixed tobacco and the market will be finished. Indirectly, with high tax rates, the helixed tobacco producer will be talked out of tobacco planting. So the local manufacturer isn't supported, he's getting cut off. No, that's not how it's going to be, we're going to support the local manufacturer, we're going to keep the tax rates too small, we have a promise of encouragement and support for cooperatives. If you say so, let the government come out here and make this promise to the tobacco manufacturer. If the minister can't do it, the Adıyaman MPs are here, so let's get the people out of here and make this promise. If you had any intention of being supportive, you could add a very comfortable substance and do so. I hope I'm wrong, but you tend to soften the reaction by spreading it to time. The sale of tobacco in Adıyaman, which you see in the tobacco trade, will not be possible. With this bill under law, this small tradesman will have to close down his businesses with intense pressure, with a threat of punishment. What does that mean? Wrapping means the tobacco market is over. It's unlikely the co-operative could build this network on its own. Local tobacco, a market for smoked tobacco, has formed a consumer. It's done to destroy this market by spreading it as long as it lasts. It's not about creating a solution based on the supply balance, it's about trying to intercept the supply to divert the demand to foreign cigarette brands. The punishments are being imposed. It has been said. Trying to ban tobacco planting was already a bit of a bitch in its own way. It's not a blessing. When there was no serious reaction in the public, you almost banned tobacco planting and faced serious punishments. That was your program, your project. We've lifted the fines in the current law. You say, "You've hidden them elsewhere. You've committed them in the Anti-Trafficking Act 5607, for example." Tobacco bans cannot be considered independent of agricultural policy. You're making the country an open market, non-producing consumer. Just as we've become a country importing meat, importing hay, we'll be a country importing tobacco. Otherwise, buy, co-op, sell your tobacco here, I'll get 85 percent tax from you. If you bring a lot of tax on pasta, it's not legal security, it's legal obstruction. Let me explain to you what's practical: if you can't create a legal situation, a legal guarantee with all these total market tools that have been cut down, if you just evaluate the future with uncertain cooperative options, tobacco production will eventually disappear, Adıyaman will become even poorer, he says, and I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0272par0213	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: Since the application, which allows export-based tobacco imports, is considered against domestic producers, it is estimated that the provisions facilitating tobacco imports should be removed from the text of matter, and the matter must be reorganised in order to increase domestic tobacco production and processing within the country. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 63 of the Law Bill to the amendment of the Law and Law by certain Tax Laws 502 rows that are being discussed in the following way. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Tulip Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The fifth joke of Article 6 of the Law on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution No. 4733, dated 63-3/2002, has been changed in the following manner and has been added to the following jokes to the same article after its ninth joke. "Tut imports are made by those who produce tobacco products mentioned in the second joke of this clause, or those who have a tobacco processing facility for permission from the institution and only to be exported after it has been processed. The institution is responsible and is responsible for overseeing the implementation of imports and exports in order to ensure that the companies are primarily processing tobacco produced in Turkey, not being used outside the purpose of exporting. "For commercial purposes, it is forbidden to fill tobacco, torn tobacco, tobacco, tobacco non-coupled substances in macaroons or leaf cigarette paper, to sell, sell, possess, or transport products produced in such a way. The co-operatives established by tobacco manufacturers in the institutional centres, which have the right to be slaughtered and smoked alone, are authorized by the Institution to form a tobacco trade authority and a joint tobacco processing facility that has been cut down by the institution in the event of their application. These co-ops can also buy non-contracted tobaccos on record to report to the Kurum, as they can get the tobacco they need by contract. With the agency's permission, they can produce and trade tobacco domestic and foreign trade and helixed tobacco. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0273par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0272par0234	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0274par0235	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0272par0236	İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0275par0239	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. We're talking about Article 63 of Bag Number 502 law, about tobacco. The tobacco-related substances were so tight, they almost came when the regime came to the Commission. Then, after negotiations with the Commission, there were some softenings in favor of tobacco manufacturers, but again, very serious problems. My dear friends, this problem isn't really a problem that's just begun. Since Turkey passed the tobacco market law, after the 2001 crisis, the coming of the famous IMF (IMF) and the opening of the doors, opening credit taps, failing, you can't pay the officer, you can't, unfortunately, have reached the point of end of tobaccoism in Turkey since the 2001 crisis. See, tobacco production in 2002 was reduced to 159,520 tonnes in 2014 to 68 thousand tons in 2014. And now it's back to the point. Currently, Turkey has become a country that imports tobacco, not tobacco to world markets. Now, with this arrangement, citizens followed by constantly breaking these laws, breaking the rules, going around the back... you know, there was a market that he had invented on his own about tobacco, and this market almost occupied 20 percent of the current market. Of course, the world's tobacco monopoly -- like all monopolys -- would not in any way leave such a share to tobacco farmers, tobacco manufacturers in Adıyaman, in a country of abundant consumers such as Turkey. They created the lobby, this lobby affected the government, and the government passed that law. Democracys are good, they're nice, they're beautiful, but unfortunately nothing is as written. Those elected in democracy, those who come to parliament don't always make their own voters' choices, the people's demands, the law, the rule. And many times in these advanced democracies -- especially in America -- they make such rules of the will of the strong, the desires of the lobby. My dear friends, the arrangements made for this item that you will raise your hand on are not in favour of the tobacco farmers, producers of Turkey, Adıyaman, the tobacco producers, the tobacco producers of our villagers, the farmers, the producers of Samsun. Whose benefit is that? This is an arrangement in favor of tobacco monopoly. It's amazing, isn't it, that my dear friends, national parliaments, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Parliament, national parliaments are making such laws against international monopoly, against their own people, against their own people, against their own manufacturer, unfortunately. Earlier in Turkey, the tobacco market law was passed in 15 days and the tobacco manufacturer's back was already broken. The number of tobacco productions I've given makes it very clear, very clear. Now, with this arrangement that you've made, the manufacturer is completely victimized here. You see, there was a trade in macaroons like this, and it could be audited, it could be brought here with a small tax, anything could be done, but unfortunately, it's completely banned. Instead, the talks on the Commission allow co-operatives to do so, especially with opposition's insistence. At least with this, if tobacco manufacturers can get together, create cooperatives, and build facilities, they can make and sell some local tobacco cigarettes. My dear friends, we're going the wrong way. We say it all the time, and you get very angry, and you say, you know, nationality, domesticity, that's not nationalism, that's domesticity. The nationals and locals protect their own manufacturers, their own tradesmen, their own farmers. By this law, you do not protect Turkey's Turkish farmer, villager, tobacco planter, you protect international tobacco monopoly. So I'm discussing your domestic and national claim. I'm reporting you to the public, my dear friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0276par0251	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 64, two of which are the same property. The first two proposals I'm going to read are the same thing, so I'm going to read them and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 64 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Open Mind Argin Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Feleknas Uca Meral Danış Beştaş Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0277par0268	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0276par0269	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0278par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0276par0271	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu is the first speaker of the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0279par0274	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion that we have submitted on Article 64 of the Law Bill 502. I salute the grand jury. Article 64 of the draft law shall make a change in Article 8 of the Law on the Organization and its duties of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 4733. Under the amendment, arrangements are made to give legal and administrative sentences to those who sell illegal tobacco and tobacco products and those who have them. The provision in Article 8 provides a way to remove prison sentences for the use of products produced without commercial purpose, without over 50 kilograms of smoked tobacco, or for those producing more than 350 litres of alcoholic beverages, and to avoid being punished for public consumption. Another regulation includes administrative penalties for producing, working, exporting, importing, selling, buying, or selling tobacco products from the institution, producing or serving goods in the market of ethanol, methanol and alcoholic beverages. We, the National Movement Party, believe that the provisions that allow tobacco imports, even for exports, can produce consequences against domestic tobacco producers, should be taken instead to encourage the adoption of provisions facilitating tobacco imports from substances, instead to increase domestic tobacco production and domestic tobacco businesses within the country. Precious MPs also farm tobacco production in the districts of Hatay, Hatay, Hassa, Yayladağı, Altınözu. Tobacco producers should be encouraged to co-optivize and allowed to open up enough tobacco to provide for families by providing state support and by selling products that they produce through cooperatives or through the knowledge of cooperatives. Our chartered tobacco farmers must be freed from the merchant's hands and provided with measures to ensure their livelihood. Dear lawmakers, Turkey must take important measures on cigarette smuggling as well as problems in the production of tobacco and assets. Reports of the Security Directorate's Trafficking and Anti-organised Crime Office office have pointed out that cigarette smuggling that has hit the economy has had significant increases in cigarette smuggling among the major gains of terrorist organisations in recent years. Trafficking is a multi-dimensional, multi-actor and variable process that affects our country financially and socially and also provides financial support for the activities of terrorist and criminal organisations. Taxes on tobacco products in our country are high, depending on the fact that prices are high compared to neighbouring countries, promote smuggling. From illegal cigarettes, both the Turkish economy and the state's tax-paying tradesman suffer. I think that illegal cigarettes, which lead to cancer and other diseases by threatening human health, especially because of the lack of quality production and unsanitary storage conditions, which are an important part of the withdrawal of the financing of the PKK's separatist terrorist organization and the fight against terrorism, should be blocked and controlled by security and customs measures and deterrent punishments and sanctions.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0280par0282	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Sibel Yiğitalp, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0281par0286	Mr. President, dear MPs, today is November 15, 2017 and the 80th anniversary of the massacre of Seyit Reza, and I remember him and his son with mercy, and I give my regards to all the people who are still in this resistance, who have not kneeled before him, who have not kneeled before such cruelty, and who have lived up to the culture of my class. Yes, there's been a study of tobacco here, and there's just been dozens of materials passing through, some of which are related to shore raids, some of which are Ranta related, and it's about the reopening of the meadows. Once they're put together, there's a policy being followed from a place that single-mindedly decides from a single center, doesn't keep the local balance at all, doesn't respect the local people's decision, which is completely single-centered, and is forcing them to make that decision. Look, some places in Istanbul are going to be privatized again, do the Istanbulians know about this? No. Don't the Istanbulians have anything to say about this? I think they've said it dozens of times. Do you have NGOs? I do. Do you have rooms? I do. Well, does any of this have anything to do with it? Is there a debate on any of their objections? I don't have that either. Like this, it's the same with the mera. We're talking about tobacco right now, and when you weigh more than 50 kilograms, you're going to be smuggling, and that's what's going to happen when you don't. Similarly, the local manufacturer has no central commitment anywhere, in any way, to make his own decision, and we are seeing again today the structural problems of central construction, which is the structural problems of this country's governance. Look, a bag of laws is the product of structural problems. For years, when we said "Democratic republic," we said "management" because we were in the face of these problems. What did we say? If you're going to make a decision on the coast, on the coast, on the coast, let the citizens there decide, and let a debate be raised on their decision. When we said that you had terrorized us, and that, in fact, is the essential condition of a democratic republic, a democratic country. From here, we decide how those people will live, how their habitats should be presented in a way, or rather, the AKP decides and AKP's alliances decide; none of the objections have any response. Now, let me ask you, why don't we discuss the words of the tobacco manufacturers? Why don't we discuss the word of the local manufacturer here? Why don't we discuss how the local manufacturer insists, how he lives, what kind of production he has here? Why does everything you say have to be true? If that had happened, today would not have been this economic crisis. If it had been, there wouldn't have been so many murders in this country today. If it had been, today, this looting, this destruction, this looting would not have happened. Look, there's no one, there's no one. Now, the meadows will be privatized, open to industry. So, do the people with the mera, the mera, the fabric of that city have a saying here? I don't have that either. We insist that when we said "democratic republic," we sang for them. Look, the people in Isparta will make their own decisions. We said, "Let the people in Diyarbakir make their own decisions." It's already been implemented in the most secular, democratic countries and countries in which there's a position of governance. These monotheistic mentalitys are far behind, which unfortunately ended its life. No one has such an ideological form of life except the countries that have lost their peace within their own country, lost their own inner peace, and are always at war out there. Again, it's useful to say that this 80 million we call this 80 million, but we're all seeing what a structural ideology is doing right now, and we're actually telling you from here, what we're all doing now, what we're doing, first of all, it's the animal manufacturers, who are not responding to the needs of the people that you've been holding out, maybe 30 million of them, who are not responding to the needs of the people you've been keeping out, who are not responding to their needs, and we're doing politics here on their own, and let's do it through a group of decision-making mechanisms from here. Otherwise, there's no need to force those people, no need to be forced into poverty, no need to be deprived. You have the responsibility to answer those people's needs because you're in power and you have the responsibility to be in power and you have the obligation to do so. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0282par0296	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 64 of the Law Charter 64 to the amendment of the Law and Law Act with certain Tax Laws 502 rows that are in session. Yours truly. Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Utku Çakırözer The 8th article of the Law 64-4733 was added to the first sentence of its first joke, to come after its statement, after its first statement, to the fifth joke was added (e.g.), (h) and (e.g.), (e.g.), (e.g.), (i.g.), (i.g.), (i.g.), (i.g.), (i.e.), (e. g.), (e. g. g.), (i.g.), (e. g. g.), (e.), (i. g. g.), (e. g.), (i.e.g.), (i.e.g.), (i.e.e.g.e.g.e.e.e.), (e.g.g.e.g.g.e.e.e.e.e.g.e.e.e.e.e.e.e., i.g.), and (e., i.e.e.e.e.e.e.e.g.g.e.e.g.g.e., the term (e.e.e.e.e.e. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0283par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0282par0311	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0284par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0285par0313	Motive...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0282par0314	I'm reading the reason: This amendment is made to better understand the material text in question. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 65th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 65 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0286par0327	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0282par0328	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0287par0329	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0282par0330	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0288par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the General Assembly, the esteemed workers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in this bag of legislation, there are severe losses of rights to workers and workers, agricultural producers. Agriculture is irrelevant and the tobacco producers are being punished, much less well assessed the country's agricultural potential. The reason for this is that the large share of the AKP government's support policies for large businesses is constantly shared among large businesses in subsidies. This often leads to a lack of support for farmers who live in rural areas and usually have small-scale businesses. As these are not enough, the HESEs, the dams, the minefields, the forbidden plateaus, and the subterranean and above-ground resources are being brutally driven to capital, while the areas of the meadows, forests, and olive groves are being destroyed. If you look at the articles in this bag of legislation, you can see that the goal is directly adıyaman, the helix in Adıyaman, the cut tobacco, and that it is fully banned. In its current form, the passing of this law means the complete destruction of the smoked tobacco with a hundred years of history in Adıyaman. This will affect about 200,000 people when we calculate tobacco producers and their families. Of course, when the middlemen and the drinkers are added to it, it's an even higher number. Dear lawmakers, these injustices against tobacco producers, farmers are unacceptable. The government has shown an untaxed cruelty by putting $2.20 in taxes on a package sold for 30 to 50 cents in a bag of legislation. Turkey produces eight factories that work as registered in macaroons. With production, marketing and sales costs added, 30 cents worth of macaroon will no longer be sold for less than $3. No one's gonna find open tobacco for $2, as the fines and prison fines come to the sale of unregistered tobacco. Eight factories producing macaroons also produce registered tobacco. Registered tobacco will be at least $4, so a pack of cigarettes with registered tobacco and a MAKARON with an EVVP will be able to cover the cheapest $8. By law, this bag will open wide the way for local and international big companies and monopolyes, the small tobacco producer and farmer will be crushed. With regulations in the bag law, the production of the tobacco manufacturer will be blocked, and the rights already restricted will be taken from them. The bag will be punished once again by tobacco producers who can only pay for the product produced by prison and fines in the law, and with high taxes and restrictions, the production of open tobacco will be complete. At the same time, apricot producers have been experiencing problems in marketing in recent years and major difficulties with the inexportability of apricots. The largest source of income in Malatia, absorption, was cut down by apricot producers this year due to low prices and institutions, about 2 million apricot trees in the last three months. If the Malatian apricot manufacturer is not given the necessary support, this apricot slaughter appears to continue. Tobacco is the livelihood of cities such as Adıyaman, Bitlis, Batman, Mush and such. Given the last two years of policies, this bag has been passed by the law and the economic foothold of human punishment in the region. When this opportunity is taken from people who have no production except tobacco, the public will become very lonely and poor. Come to this region, and do not do this evil to these provinces. Dear friends, as a whole, we need to review our agricultural policies. There is a need for new regulations that account for the manufacturer, the farmer. These things need to be settled. In this bag of legislation, it says that the small farmer should be given up on the materials that punish the small manufacturer, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0289par0342	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 65 of the Law Bill to the amendment of the Law and Laws under some tax laws of 502 rows that are being discussed in the following way. Tanju Özcan Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamayligil Article 65-4733 of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9 (B) has been changed into the expression of the cigarette factories (also referred to in the form of the product, macaron and leaf paper production facilities. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0290par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0289par0356	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0291par0357	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0289par0358	Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0361	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just passed a breaking news report, I don't know if you've been able to trace it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0293par0362	What site?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0363	No, it's been all over the websites, it's been in the subtitles of the major news bulletins. You may not believe this, but Turkey gave America a note. I was so excited to hear that Turkey gave America a note. We looked at what the note was about, do you know what the note was for? We're worried about the safety of a citizen, we haven't heard from him in five days. Who is this citizen, Mr. Vice Prime Minister? Reza Zarraf. So, in time, he put a sack over our soldiers' heads, this America, you couldn't make a note; we said, "Give." You said, "Are we giving music?" In Iraq and Syria, controlled by this America, our soldiers were killed and burned by ISIS and PKK; you could not give America a single note. You only spoke in the squares when this United States of America gave the YPG a gun, and you couldn't even give it a note. But today, when it comes to Reza Zarraf, you give notes to the United States for not being heard from by Reza Zarraf in five days. Congressmans, the note is given for the national interests of a country, not for personal interests. Now, what national interest of Turkey do you think has been damaged in the absence of any news from Reza Zarraf for five days? Are you really worried about Reza Zarraf's life, or are you afraid that Reza Zarraf will make some statements in front of the American judicial authorities that you might be uncomfortable with? Let us make this clear.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0294par0366	Maybe they're torturing him.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0367	Congressmans, let's make this clear. Can you go out and say to the United States of America, you're talking about it, you're torturing my citizen? Yeah, what a precious citizen, what a precious citizen!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0295par0368	Protect your soldier, protect Reza Zarraf.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0369	Mr. Bozdağ, what is more valuable to this Reza Zarraf, than 80 million citizens, from the government's point of view, I'm very curious!
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0296par0370	They don't know, the government doesn't know.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0371	I mean, you didn't give the United States a note in your history, the first note you gave was about Reza Zarraf. What do you expect from Reza Zarraf? So, what national interest do you maintain by giving America notes on this matter?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0297par0372	A man who smuggles gold.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0298par0373	The gold will protect your export.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0374	You want to secure our gold exports, what's this about? By God, I'm ashamed as a member of the Republic of Turkey. We also know his record in Turkey, and we know how he's been bribing people in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0299par0375	His partner was sentenced to death in Iran.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0376	You're right. You give a note to the United States of America about a citizen whose partner is sentenced to death in Iran -- where he is a citizen of Iran -- who is still a citizen of Iran. Is he gonna laugh or cry? Mr. Secretary, we'd like a statement from you on this matter, and we'd like a statement from the government spokesman.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0300par0377	Relax, everything's gonna be fine. Relax.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0378	So, what are you worried about, Reza Zarraf?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0300par0379	Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0380	Are you worried about his life, worried about his property, worried about what he's gonna say?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0300par0381	Don't worry, too, relax.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0382	Are you worried something might happen to this man? What are you worried about, lawmakers? Look, there's been some strange developments.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0300par0384	Everything's gonna be fine, relax.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0385	Mr. Egemen Bagis, the one who threw the "Bakara" at us, the former Minister, suddenly became a citizen of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Did you ask him why? This man is already an American citizen, an American citizen. He was the sworn translator of the United States of America before he became a congressman; you all know that. Now, where did the love of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus come from? Do you think we're too suspicious? He is not a member of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, INTERPOL.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0301par0387	It's not on the INTERPOL network, it's true.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0292par0388	Yes, if an arrest warrant was issued from INTERPOL, a citizen of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus would not be affected tomorrow. Is that the way we think, is that right? I want an answer to that question. Has the Sovereign Donated received permission to enter another country's citizenship? Did you know about this, did you read about it in the press like us, Mr. Bozdağ, if you've read about it in the press, have you thought about what I think? What a cunning fellow. Did you or did you not say? I'm waiting for the answers to those questions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0302par0392	Mr. Tanju, you're so mean, you're so mean.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0303par0394	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 66th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Meral Danış Beştaş Feleknas Uca Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0304par0405	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0303par0406	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0305par0407	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0306par0408	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0303par0409	I'm reading the reason: The 66th and 67th Articles were added to Public Contraction Act 4734, and the insurance companies' bail insurance insurance insurance policies were intended to be treated as collateral letters. However, due to the fact that there is a new function for insurance companies and the fact that their capital is extremely limited, it has not been made clear in commission talks on how these companies will make bail in Turkey when they start making bail. With the introduction of the Credit Guarantee Fund in 2017, economic enlargement policies are known to produce macroeconomic negative results in the mid-term. So, for example, there are no guarantees for major projects such as Canal Istanbul, and it is considered to have a lot of negative impacts on the economy, especially inflation, as well as current issues. These concerns have been expressed and have requested detailed information about the new system, but no enlightening information has been received from the government. With such a large arrangement, it must be removed from the bill in terms of the risk carried for Turkey's economy, which has a fragile structure, that the public and public tenders will be given this authority, as well as that of self-promoted potential risk by the public. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the amendment of Article 66 of the Law Charter for the Amendment to Law and Law Laws with certain Tax Laws 502 rows that are being discussed in the following way. Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip Utku Çakrözer The Ancient Don't Stop Moses Pine Article 4 of Article 4 of the Public Contraction Law, dated 66 - 4/1/2002, "The following definition of the letter of the delivery letter has been added to follow the definition of "Treatment letter. "Security letter: letters of guarantees provided by banks and bail bonds provided under bail insurance insurance insurance from the insurance companies in Turkey." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0307par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0303par0426	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0308par0427	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0303par0428	İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0309par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are facing a legal arrangement involving expanding the use of bail insurance and bail insurance. What's bail insurance? So we're going to make an arrangement, and there's bail on his name, and that's what we're going to insure with bail, which is a clause we're going to question. Now the tenders are being entered. I'll never question who the tenders are with, how they're given, how they're given, how they're given, how they're given, there's little time. But when you enter the tenders, you demand a letter of collateral from the companies. These letters of collateral are non-profit loans, so loans are cash and non-profits, and collateral letters are non-profit loans. Now, the President of the Banks Association said: "Now that the knife is up to the bone, we're up to our necks, we can't allocate credits." When you look at it, we've come to 150 per cent as a deposit loan rate, so we're lending 150 lira to a deposit of 100 lira, and we have an obligation to finance the deficit that comes up with these loans. So let's take a breather and get bail insurance. The bail insurance came out looking for new guarantees in a new tender. So, what's this quest that's just this relief, what's going on in this country? Look at the last year, new current account deficits have emerged in the last year, 30 or so billion dollars, with a net debt deficit of $211 billion, the real sector and near $70 billion, Turkey has a year's payment, short-term payment. Now, we're looking at the last year; in the last year, direct capital investment has dropped by 18 per cent. In this case, without a 40 per cent increase in real estate, there is no direct capital for investment with liquidation; 77 per cent of the capital that comes to Turkey comes from high interest and comes from the interest that we pay from taxes paid by our citizens. Turkey's long-term debt opportunity has declined, and now only short-term loans are given, and, as I said, there is cash that comes to the bond, bond, stock, and stock for a short period of time. In Turkey, right now, the risk factors are very high. There were five fragile countries in 2013; four of them changed, and one of Turkey remained. As Turkey again, we are on world lists as fragile economies. When we say all this... we say that we must be cautious. But what's done? Now, the Central Bank -- I've told you in the past -- used a reescontract loan against exports -- brought in a fixed currency application despite the exporter's income. It wasn't enough, it's now the future -- so he brought an insurance system -- to open it with a tender to create a source again over a fixed currency, but such measures have been implemented in this country from time to time. Look, let me remind you that as 1993 was over -- there were elections in 1994 -- we again took these kinds of measures from the Central Bank. And after that, the increase in courtship, instead of structural measures and decisive steps, temporary measures were taken, and a major crisis followed. By the time we arrived in 2001, the Central Bank had made a special arrangement for itself -- and there was so much damage that it demanded bond from the Treasury -- 18 or so billion dollars of damage from us, all of us. So, it's our most important duty to warn you again, because the pressure from outside Turkey, the competition and the narrowing of major central banks abroad are making our job difficult, and we have a critical period ahead of us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Instead of solutions to such short-term, acute situations, we need to take decisive steps to save Turkey's future. Otherwise, history repeats itself, history repeats itself, and history pays bitter bills. It's our duty to warn you. I hope you'll take that into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0310par0442	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 67. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 67 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Feleknas Uca Suryet Taşdemir Ahmet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0311par0453	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0310par0454	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0312par0455	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0310par0456	On the motion, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0313par0459	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've been trying to save the situation with the economy's explanations for the past year, and the fact that the economy's gone bad, with the legislation and the additional budgets. Without a doubt, measures to overcome the recession are especially important to address the situation of poor populations, this state of poverty, the condition of being forced to do so. So if you do not balance the assets between the poor and the poor, you do not balance the taxes you collect from them, but if you are trying to overcome the poor who have the least share in the bill by putting more new tax burdens on them, then the conscience, moral and truth of such a legal arrangement is weak. Of course, it is important to improve this economic progress in this country, to increase people's purchasing power and together with their happiness and peace of mind. But it's a very high price to go around this much and try to provide this country with security policies that will cost the poor people goods, loss of lives. The deaf sultan also knows that this economic trend is the only reason why it's bad, and it's the violent and overprotective policies that have been in the country for the last two or two and a half years, and they've developed against this violent spiral. Look, the valued lawmakers presented their ministry's budget on the Plan and Budget Commission's 2018 central management budget, and in their presentation speech, the Interior Minister tried to draw a success story on all lives, on death scores, on arrests and on the number of detentions. If anyone has begun to build the success of a government on death, detentions, firings, political genocide operations, it is obvious that he has entered a tunnel without a way out, and if there is no one to inspire him and he cannot bring him back, then the country's course with the government will be very bad. Imagine, one of the most invested ministries in this country is the General Directorate of Justice and Punishment and Tevkifevs, where our Deputy Prime Minister has served a long time as minister. Although this country has enough prisons, the fact that the maximum investment spending is still being done to new prisons is a very important problem for this country's democracy report card. This country needs more prisons, not more political and administrative atmospheres that produce more crime, but more peaceful policies in this country, and an atmosphere in which the people who built that country have increased its sense of belonging and belonging to its country. The biggest problem facing the government today is the tolerance of these different identities, along with their ethnic, religious, religious, cultural, religious backgrounds that form this country. That's what's been lost in this country in the last two or two and a half years. However, we lost our lives, we lost our property, we lost our economy, we increased poverty, but we lost brotherhood, tolerance, captivation, and we evolved into strict economic policies that were paid more in addition to all of them in the poor population. In this country, close to 80 per cent of the central management budget comes from taxes, the rich don't pay taxes, even the wealthy's debts are being wiped out, but the poor are more burdened, so we're trying to get the job together with these kinds of arrangements, which are in vain. This is easy to prescribe; it is to prioritize peaceful policies that will strengthen our lives, our brotherhood, and our unity. Look, we're trying to express an organizational reality -- by putting over 100,000 people out of work -- which is that you can't get up and form an organization over 100,000, 200,000 numbers. It's not called an organizational and political crime reality, it has a sociological background. With sociological evaluations, he thinks we can overcome this problem more easily, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0314par0465	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 67 of the Law Charter 67 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Utku Çakırözer The first verse (b) of Article 34 of Law 67-4734 has been changed in the following way. ίb) Letters of collateral. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0315par0479	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0314par0480	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0316par0481	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0317par0482	Motive...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0314par0483	I'm reading the reason: This amendment is made to better understand the material text in question. I submit the motion to your votes: All in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. On Article 68, there are three motions, two of which are the same. The first two motions I make are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 68 of Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Saffet Sandzakman Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Feleknas Uca Meral Danış Beştaş Ertugrul Furçı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0318par0502	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0314par0503	Government?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0319par0504	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0314par0505	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0320par0508	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 68 of Bill 502. I salute the General Assembly. Article 68 of the bill adds a sentence to the first joke of Article 8 of Public Contraction Act 4734. Before discussing the meaning of the added sentence, it is useful to explain the 62th Article of the Public Contraction Act in terms of its relevance. The 62nd article of the Public Contraction Act shall establish the rules that must be followed before tenders are made for production and purchases of goods and services within the scope of the law. The clause (e) concerned directly with the matter (e) is the basis of which the administration must be followed in the hiring of employees based on the services defined in the Public Contraction Law, adding a sentence to the application of the 8th Article, which is added to the bill, and regulates the responsibilities of the officers. In summary, the Article 62 of Article (1) (e) requires that appropriate opinion be taken from the Ministry of Finance, the Undersecretary of Finance, the President of the Privatisation Administration, before a tender is tendered for hiring staff under the subsection of Article 62 (e). Except for exceptions, there is no tender from these authorities without proper opinions. In addition to the sentence added to the first joke, the content of the appropriate view is becoming more evident, identifying the number of employees to be employed, the ceilings for wages and other financial rights will be possible to eliminate the price differences between administrations in the same services. In short, the number of employees that subcontractors will run, the price ceilings are being arranged. Although today's subcontractors' work has been concluded that the bill will be submitted to parliament by New Year's Eve, but given the fact that this arrangement will take effect on 1/1/2018, it leads us to the conclusion that our subcontractors will not be able to provide staff in 2018, I hope I am mistaken. If the subcontractors can't be given a staff before the year 2018 or can't be given until the next election, in 2018, I'd like to say that if the subcontractors can't be staffed in 2018, then again, please don't reveal it; don't trust people, don't distract people. Dear lawmakers, problems due to practice over time, developing technologies are mandatoryly causing changes in the law. However, a large number of changes in a very important law, such as the Public Contraction Act, have caused serious allegations, has undermined the public's confidence. Arguing that Law 2886, which was in effect until 2012, caused serious problems, caused corruption, and this wound, bleeding for many reasons, has been printed, and in 2002, Law 4734 has been passed, which is leading to transparency, participation, corruption, corruption, and many difficult mechanisms. At this point today, serious debates are being made that the public tender arrangement has been rescinded, that it's been compromised, that transparency has been broken, that it's been removed from international standards. Serious claims that many of the barricades set up to prevent enjoyment, bribery, corruption, co-friendship and nepotism have been removed, that unfair gain doors have been reopened, that many changes have been made in public interest remain on our country's agenda. Even if none of these claims are true, the fact that the vital importance of this law has been changed many times won't bring down allegations of corruption, nepotism, delivery to the address. Dear lawmakers, there are very serious claims that those who do not provide recommendations from the AKP have not been hired to identify personnel based on hiring staff, and the application does so. These aren't the right things. This practice may bring satisfaction to those who benefit, but it does not serve social peace, says it has not, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0321par0516	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The Finance Minister has the authority to set a price for the prices of subcontractors. While the employment of subcontractors has been made a widespread and general rule, authorities who have made statements on behalf of the government that they will solve the subcontractor problem at each time are no longer a promise of elections, this arrangement is now resolving the solution to the society-related subcontracted subcontractorial labor problem in another spring. When the budget deficit of this authority is tried to be closed, however, it must be removed from the bill because the minister has a risk of reducing the wages of some subcontractors, which are relatively good, to the minimum wage level, according to the minister's statement. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 68 of the Law on the Amendment to Laws and Laws of Laws and Laws in accordance with some tax laws of 502 rows that are being discussed in the following way. With all due respect. Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Utku Çakırözer The following sentence is added to the first joke of Article 8 of Article 68-4734 of the Law. "The appropriate view includes the number of personnel to be employed in this scope, management, service types, one of the factors that affect the price level, such as where the work is done, a few or all of them, including the detection of ceilings for fees and similar financial payments to be determined in the tender document. However, these power fees cannot be used as a means of suppression, control and ice cream. The authority is the content of the work, the work environment, the workplace, and so forth. Items are also used by consideration. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0322par0534	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0321par0535	Government?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0323par0536	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0321par0537	We're reading the motive. We are amazed that a government, which has suggested that the regulation of the above law shall be adopted after 1/1/2018, will ensue the law on subcontractors until 1/1/2018, to enact them permanently in the TBMM. Article 68 of the bill covers the number of staff employees to be employed under the Public Contracts Act 4734 and the setting of ceilings on wages and other financial rights. On the grounds of Article 68 of the amendment in Article 68 of the bill, which is referred to as the number of employees to be employed as part of the hiring of employees under the Law on Public Relations No. 4734, and on the basis of Article 68, the number of staff and other financial rights to be executed in line with budgetary allowances for the purposes of the employment of employees based on the purpose of the application of the Enforcement Act, let us also establish the number of staff and the amount of services that are to be implemented in line with the application of Article 4734. (AS/TK) In Article 4734 of the existing Law, Article 8 is the application of appropriate views from the Finance Ministry in terms of hiring personnel under Article 62, as well as the service types, such as where the work is done, and the ceiling of other financial payments is authorized to determine. Its content, business environment, workplaces, localities and so on. Even the elements should not be used as a means of suppression, control, and ice cream, given the cost. Therefore, the motion is made. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 69. I'm going to process these motions in the same manner, make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 69 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Saffet Sandzaker Kamil Aydın Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Meral Danış Beştaş Erdal Atash Feleknas Uca The signatures of the other motion are: Musa Pine Ceyhun İrgil Utku Cakirözer Tulip Carabinieri Ancient Durmaz Zazika Haziel Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0324par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0321par0571	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0325par0572	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0321par0573	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın is the first speaker in the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0326par0576	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the esteemed lawmakers to discuss the motion that we have made regarding Article 69 of the Law Bill 502. I salute you all at this hour of the night. Respected lawmakers, when we look at the most systematic definition of the state of the Republic of Turkey as the Constitution, when we look at its most inclusive definition, we define it as a democratic, secular, social law state. I'd like to start by stressing specifically on the law here, because these issues are a bit of a legal issue. Sir, we're negotiating an additive. This is in particular a law on the implementation of free courses and study books for students who are studying at formal and private schools in the Ministry of National Education, and of receiving goods and services for teachers for free. We're talking about a substance that was first proposed as an additive, then converted into a temporary substance and extended until 2019. Sure, what's this about? So far, it's a little bit about today's interruption of an app that's been widely accepted, supported by all parts of society. Since 2004, an application that had been implemented for the past 14 years provided a book support at the student's textbook point -- up to the 12th grade -- as well as at the teacher's assistant books. What kind of process was that? Of course, the industry is particularly interested in book publishing, as well as in its institutions, so thousands of people from this sector are eating bread. What was the system like? During the previous training year, I think it will be announced, in January, during the training year of the Board of Education, I think it will be announced, called, sample books are prepared, published in April, seen in a magazine in some form; if later approved, various publishing houses -- after examples -- were asked to publish -- and students would see it on the desk when teaching begins in the bag. Now, there's a strange practice going on about their tender. It's like, of course, there's a, you know, there's a kind of, you know, there's a reminder that there's not a lot of hair being done so far, but now there's a little bit of regularity being done. Now, dear lawmakers, look, there's been a breach of rights here. So give him what he wants, make him an offer. This is indeed contrary to the principles that we have just defined the state of the Republic of Turkey in the constitutional framework, as it has led to monopoly. We're the state of law. Really, there are a lot of victims here that we're going to play with. And the Board of Education has already told these people: "Bring in your copybooks, bring them in, prepare, we will be subject to a mixed assessment, in a way, without victimizing everyone, there will be a purchase." And believe me, I'm trying to present this to you on the subject of complaints from the sector. You know, I'm going to say, if there's an ulterior motive, a prejudicial explanation, and I'm going to say, yes, a message sent to talk about a political polem, but it's been said that it's a system that's been well applied so far, so what happened, especially as if we have a tender to an address in our minds, is it a breakthrough to make someone more equal, to enrich them more? In this context, we've already said that we object to it by having ourselves a martyr. In particular, I think it's necessary to correct this arrangement at the economic distribution point, which is contrary to the principle of equality. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0327par0584	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0328par0585	Sir, you're very kind, so tell me clearly, they're doing it for the aide publishing houses.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0326par0586	Arif understood.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0328par0587	They're trying to put 160 million copies of books somewhere.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0329par0588	On the other proposal of the same nature, İstanbul MP Erdal Atash. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0330par0591	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the wrong policies, are either reflected in the economy, and in this bag that we continue today, taxes, new economic policies, new markets, villages, the burden of this crisis is being lifted from the resources of the public, the public. Let's keep it from disabled people to tobacco, to new debts, to all other things, there are dozens of different issues. But it's all, as I said, the wrong policies, conflicting cultures in this country, are the main problems of not dealing with the past. And I want to talk about today, at this time of the evening, a wound that has been bleeding for 80 years in the province of Dersim, where I was born and raised. Because this kind of injury is actually one of the foundations of all this economic instability in this country. So today, on November 15, 1937, 80 years ago, it became history as part of a five-year process in which the leading men of my class were executed, where hundreds of thousands of people were targeted for their language, their beliefs, their demands. For five years, a great slaughter, exile, destruction process, created significant destruction. The Tunceli law, which began in 1934, begins with the Council of Ministers' decision and so forth, is executed along with his son Seyit Reza - 75 years old -- 17 years old -- and 5 friends on November 15, 1937. This operation lasts until 1939. According to official figures, nearly 15,000 people die. More than 100,000 people are being exiled from their homes, from their places, from their places of faith, from their economic areas. Tens of thousands missing. Again, massive economic destruction. In the same way, there has been a major destruction, a major destruction, with the ban and assimilation against the names of the people and the people of the province, the county, the village, and the language of the people. I'm afraid this banring intellectualism is still going on, and there's still a great deal of pressure on the people who are fighting against the conflicting identity of this geography, their language, their beliefs, their beliefs, their nature, a major attack on its nature. Their nature is burned, dams are built, great pressures, arrests are involved, their faith and language are banned. The demand of the locals, of course, has been spoken for decades, and so do the government officials and the rulers of this entire country, but I'm afraid no steps have been taken so far, except that some words have been expressed, and nothing has been resolved, except for a show-of-the-art apology. First of all, the demand of the local people is that all of these segregating, monogamous policies -- their languages, their beliefs -- be annulled, the dam and similar attacks on its nature -- be eliminated. Second, in the 1937-1938 massacre, Seyit Reza and six people's graves are still not given to their families, nor are 51 of those who have been tried, so these people's graves must be handed over to their families as soon as possible. County, county, village names need to be returned. The fate of tens of thousands of people who have been exiled, including 51, needs to be explained, and their victims need to be removed. Again, the banned archives, which are still closed, need to be released to the public. The children of the families who were murdered were sent to cities at the time -- and the state has to formally apologize to these families and work on the solution to all these problems. If we can wrap up the wounds -- if we can face our past -- if we can end all the conflicting processes in this geography -- we can restore social peace, and we can repair at least a fraction of the economic and psychological destruction. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0331par0601	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Ceyhun İrgil will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0332par0605	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been added to the legislation by the ruling party in their last-day talks on the Plan Budget Commission. This article will provide a textbook, student study book, and guidebooks for interested teachers, which will be distributed free of charge to students who are studying at official and private schools in the Ministry, and you must first know this. If the amendment, which has been made a temporary clause with opposition's insistence and objections, passes through the Parliament, will be valid by 31 December 2019. So, what do you want to bring with you? With this arrangement, the Ministry of National Education will take the applicants for the tender of their books through a preliminary assessment of competence and enter the tender they have invited to the Ministry. If the bidders who normally call off the tender are less than 3 ▪, those who have been predeterminated by the ministry will conclude with a tender. It's not really understandable that the Ministry of Finance would approve this change that would disrupt financial discipline and make a hole in the Public Contraction Act. The IRS needs to answer that question. Because it's a substance that's being removed from the IRS. Why was this arrangement needed? During talks on the Commission, Minister of National Education Mr. Ismet Yilmaz said that they would like to complete the tender of the books sooner, which should be changed due to content next year, as well as to reprint the books stemming from the problem and error. In fact, every day there is trouble in a new book, so he said. Apparently, the ministry is trying to ensure reprinting and distribution of textbooks, which have been published by a curricula change, which is not prepared enough, and by the decision of dishonest people. It seems that the Ministry of National Education, refusing to explain the public damage caused by different explanations of the type and number, wants to establish a arbitrary law for reprinting the books that go to the trash. There are questions that need to be made public and answered. How many books have been published by the Ministry of National Education for the 2017-2018 school year? What's the total number of books printed? How many books have there been problems with so far? What are the problems and errors that require reprinting books? What is the type and number of books to be reprinted? What's the number of books that need to be reprinted because of the problem and the error? By 2019, will 165 million books be thrown away, including 518 species? For the past two years, which publishing houses has the Ministry printed on, and what are their names? How much is the public damage due to the books that were thrown away? Who are the people responsible for this public damage that has arisen in the Ministry of National Education? Will there be a procedure for those responsible for public harm? What is the estimated cost for books to be reprinted because of problems and mistakes? Won't your ministry be able to take millions of dollars of tenders from predetermined, privileged, or admissible publishing houses, with this arrangement, which means the loss of open tenders and competition? And are there people and people in the Ministry of National Education who have a position and a position of office and an open partnership with their publishing houses, himself or their relatives? First you answer these questions, first you answer for destroying the reputation of education, first you explain the public damage you've created, and then you ask for an arrangement for million-dollar bids. Therefore, we strongly oppose the passage of this substance. If there are MPs who have a conscience and advocate some public fiscal discipline, they will not approve of this clause, and I think the Finance Ministry will certainly object to this clause that is out of its control and discipline. This is a provision that clears the way for corruption and suspects of the Ministry of National Education, authorising the Minister of National Education. So, come, all of you, say no to this million-dollar score. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0613	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 70th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 70th article of the current Law Bill 502 rows be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Feleknas Uca Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0334par0624	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0625	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0335par0626	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0627	We're reading his motive: The amendment is made to Industrial Areas Law 4737. This article, which is a parallel arrangement to Article 54 of the bill, contains an issue in the industrial bag law adopted towards the end of the Second Legislature. This arrangement is clear evidence of what kind of soup a bag of law enforcement has turned into. This provision, which leaves the mera fields at the mercy of the industry, must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Tax Code 502, which is currently in session, shall be changed in the following way in the 70th Amendment to the amendment of the Law and the Law. Ancient Durmaz Utku Cakirözer Tulip Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Article 4/A of Industrial Areas No. 4737, dated 70-9/1/2002, has been changed as follows. "MEDDE 4/A-Industrials are approved by the Ministry of Ethics, maps, plans and projects, with 1/5000-scale development plan and 1/100-scale implementation plans and parcel plans and changes to the substructure. Approval plans for development and division are announced on the Ministry website for 30 days, and if there is no objection, the notice expires at the end of the notice period. As the development plans are prepared, health protection tape is left within the property limits under the protocol between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0336par0643	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0644	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0337par0645	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0646	I'm having him read his motive: The notice period of approved development and parcelling plans in the text of the article is raised from seven days to thirty days in order to ensure transparency, transparency on the Ministry website, and to give the relevant parties the right to the necessary examination and objection. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 71st article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some of the tax laws and laws under which 502 are in session and the amendments to the provisions of the Law and the Law shall be removed from the draft text of the 71st Amendment. Moses Pine Bihlun Tamaygil Zechariah Haziel Utku Çakrözer The Ancient doesn't stop Selin Sayek Böke Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0338par0661	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0662	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0339par0663	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0333par0664	Minister Selin Sayek Böke will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0340par0667	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute our High Council. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the 71st amendment to the current bag or soup law. I salute you all again. It was only a year ago, a bag of laws established here again, a fund called the Presence Fund. We also objected at the time that this could not be an asset fund, whether you call it the asset Fund in the country or not, that the fund itself would not function as a asset fund, so that what was established would be a mortgage fund, and on that day, those of us who understood the economy, had a conscience, felt responsibility for this country, and we explained it over and over. We said, "What you're building is not a wealth fund, but a parallel treasure, and come back from the parallel as a burned-out country, confess what you've built and don't even build it." Now, with this bag compressed into the law, you're pave the way for the Turkish Republic's treasure to transfer directly to this mortgage fund that you've established. The mortgage fund is not mentioned in the article, but it is clearly described as an asset fund. You change the amendment to the Article 1 of the Law on Public Finance and the Editing of Debt Management, and add this ibare to the article: "The funds that provide funding for companies and/or projects will be transferred directly from the treasury. " Look back, you're already saying that in Article 3 of the Article III (c). This Fund of Being was founded to finance the project. Now, by handing out direct funds from the treasure to the clearly described Entity Fund, you are filling the parallel treasure with your own hands. A year ago, when we expressed these objections -- we said -- you answered: "Don't worry, he will find the resources for these projects. How is this not a burden? Within the same law, the treasure will borrow $37 billion more, return the debt to the asset fund, and finance the mega-projects of the entity fund. If the treasure was to be borrowed and the treasure was to be financed, why can't the directly investor ministries use this opportunity to build projects? Why do you feel the need to establish a parallel ministry to the ministries? The question arises, whether you want to escape inspection or not. Are you going around the back so he doesn't get audited? When we look at this bag of legislation, it's clear that both taxes and debt, the treasure needs a source. Both the treasure needs resources. You will go back and make a law to transfer the source of the treasure, the source of which you say it does not exist, to the asset Fund. So you're going to want to sacrifice the nation, you're going to increase the tax loads, and then you're going to transfer the money from the nation to the irresponsible asset fund, and then you're going to say, "What we're doing is we're going to get a short-term loan from the stranger, and we're going to put this short-term debt into a fund, and the stranger is going to say that it's going to finance investment in investment funds, so that the system of entrepreneurs will be applied to the ecosystem of entrepreneurs, and it's going to get foreign funds from the treasury into Turkey for a long term. You're saying that we're going to borrow short-term loan from the stranger, and that we're going to put this short-term-term debt into a fund, and the stranger will say that we're going to tell you, why we're not going to make a great investment in Turkey. He's not coming because there's no law in your ecosystem, there's the State of Emergency. In your ecosystem, property rights are not protected, there's joy, there's numbers. Among 126 countries to protect property rights in 2007, Turkey ranked 38, while now in 78, because of the State of Emergency and arbitraryness. Does this stuff fix the problem? No. We stand in the 99th ranking of 113 countries in the Rule of Law Index. Does this clause lift the State of Emergency, bring law to Turkey? No. Don't fool anyone, you're obviously taking money out of people's pockets and transferring money into the pocket of the looter capital. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0341par0674	Thank you, Mr. Böke. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 72. I'm going to process these motions in the same manner, make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 72 of the Law Bill 502 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı Signatories of the other proposal of the month: Musa Pine Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Cakırözer Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Old Don't Stop Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0342par0691	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0341par0692	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0343par0693	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0341par0694	Mr. Haluk Ayhan is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0344par0697	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised our motion to the National Movement Party on Article 72 of the Law Bill 502. I salute the grand jury. First of all, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to report my regrets. We'd very much like you to agree with our motion because it has three issues, in the nature of this bill. What are you going to do with all these problems if these three things didn't happen? It's already piling up. What? One of them is about the amount of debt we're talking about. We're breaking what we call a very solid law, 4749, and with a temporary clause, we're going to owe 30 billion. I mean, this was supposed to come in a different way, like... What are we doing with three communications companies? We're doing good, we're giving up what we're getting, and there's something there. The other thing is that we pay taxes, and we raise both institutions and income taxes by two points. What did another minister of interest say when this was being discussed upstairs? Let's get rid of the taxes. He said, "The Minister of Finance is in trouble, and we spoke yesterday." Why am I saying this? We've really locked down the entire IRS bureaucracy. Public finances are in a tight spot. We've broken financial discipline, it's hard to collect financial discipline. In fact, in the past, the governments of the Republic of Turkey have faced these challenges, and all of Turkey has lived with the governments. So without disrupting the system, if we needed an additional budget, we had to come here with him and sort this out. Now, we're raising the net debt limit for 2017. For the first time since 2009, the borrowing limits of Law 4749, which was originally adopted for the preservation of financial discipline, have been increased by $37 billion. Basically, this is -- I just told you -- one of the most troubling elements of the bill. This is clearly proof that the government's accounts have been lost and that the 2018 budget projections will not hold. It's also a sign that you've been thrown in the towel in financial discipline. This development is capable of damaging confidence in Turkey's economy and could trigger interest and courtship increases that we already find difficult to control. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the measures brought against the government's corrupt budget balance are also, unfortunately, incomplete and flawed. It's easy to compromise financial discipline -- we always say -- it's hard to get back, you have to consider that. Unfortunately, in our economy, the current is open, and we also see that growth is not possible without creating a budget deficit. The January and October budget results were announced here today. When we look at it, the budget deficit is rising from 12 billion TL -- in October, January -- to $35 billion. On the other hand, where does the non-interest balance come from at 32.4 billion? 15.2 billion. That's going down, too, and there's trouble there. Now, wouldn't it be nice if the IRS sat down, brought in spending and tax reform instead of dealing with these things here, put together structural measures, put in front of us, give us a very good view of what's going on? Actually, do you know what he's doing now, Mr. Secretary? We're trying to solve the problems that have arisen. These problems, if you don't take structural measures, they'll keep coming and you won't be able to handle them. So there's a bag like this: 100 articles, 120 articles, even 40 articles that have come up here to 240 things -- up and down, down, up and down -- and now there's trouble here, too. Look, the interest in the tender today was 13.75 years old; the Central Bank's policy interest was 5.75 per cent higher than 8 per cent, so 6 points higher than him. Then we have a situation here. That's a good way to put it. Come on, I really think we should do this properly, and I'm looking forward to supporting our motion. I salute the High Council and wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0345par0708	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Selin Sayek Böke, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0346par0712	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 72nd Amendment of the current bag of law. I salute you all. This bag is the law itself, and, frankly, it's a bag of laws that reveal our concerns about how the country is run. Despite all our objections, doing business with this bag and sack of law enforcement has already pushed the country to a place that is undisciplined, undisciplined, and leaves no anchor. Now, with this material, you're throwing away the financial discipline, the only anchor held by the macroeconomic framework, with your own hands. We say that the economic model, which has long been written to Turkey, built by you, can no longer provide development; this model is creating only temporary growth; this growth does not create permanent employment, does not solve the unemployment problem, does not create hope for young people. So neither solves poverty, nor cures despair, solves instability, but the source of poverty, instability, the loss of trust in the country is the growth model that you've established, and the macroeconomic framework that supports it. So you're destroying the country's economy with your own hands. Every time we said that, you told us: "Oh, dear, we have a fiscal discipline. Now, here you are, taking and destroying the financial discipline you claim to have with this clause of the bag law, leaving the economy of Turkey completely naked, idle. You've done things that we can't do with our assessments of the situation in the public finances through the basic budget deficit figures. We know very well that you know that by turning non-budget funds and non-budget employment into a reality of Turkey, you've already made it impossible to assess financial discipline over the budget deficit. Now, with this bag of law, we understand that you are determined to take steps that are completely riveting with that fiscal discipline that you already don't already have. Financial discipline requires transparency, discipline requires rules, obedience to the rules, and most importantly, it requires not to act against the law. And the last straw we have left here -- I repeat -- you throw it in the trash with your own hands. There are no anchors left for our economy to hold on to, and if we take out this law, all we have will be destroyed. So basically, you're making this law and throwing away the 2018 budget before it gets to the General Assembly. Who's going to guarantee that you won't be borrowing more from the additional debt than that budget law? Who can convince us that you will be owed as much as the budget deficit in the 2018 Budget Law? Even you won't believe it, because with this law, you'll be turning the extra debt into the reality of this country, doing business illegally. In numbers, let's remind you that the authority you received in the 2017 Budget Law was 47.5 billion dollars in debt. The law says: "You can go up 10 per cent by the power of the Minister and the Council of Ministers." You've gone over 10 per cent, you've come to 52 billion dollars, now you're over 52 billion dollars in your jurisdiction, you owe $37 billion more. So we asked the Commission, first we asked Mr. Agbal, and then we asked Mr. Lightning, what are you doing this additional debt for? Where are you going to spend the money? What are you afraid of, what are you hiding from us? What are you trying to keep money for? And the answer was, Mr. Lightning said, "We're collecting this money against speculation." Imagine, a minister, a minister in charge of the economy, says there may be speculation about the economy in this country and he's raising money against that speculation. I can't think of a bigger economic speculation than that. This speculation and additional debt are the main reasons for increasing interest in Turkey. In Turkey, interest increases, you increase interest. Your practices condemn Turkey to live on double-digit interest, double-digit inflation, double-digit unemployment. You're the one who raised the interest. So, where's this money gonna go, innovation? No. A citizen? No. If it's all there is, it's all there is, it's a court regime. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0347par0722	Thank you, Mr. Böke. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0348par0726	Mr. President, after confirming a few issues regarding the 71st Amendment in the bill we're discussing, I'd like to inform the General Assembly. Here, present is now able to transfer treasure funds into the fund of funds in our legal legislation. With this 71st article passed through Parliament, the treasure will be able to directly fund subsidize the subsidiaries. The funds that are going to be set up here are funds to fund technology-producing technology companies. It will be a partnership of domestic or foreign funds with domestic funds. We're going to have twice the funding that we're going to put in here, and we're going to fund companies that are working to work for technology development. The funding of the asset fund is not available here; there are already profits from assets or companies within the entity Fund. He doesn't really need resources, some of his profits from his companies are already being transferred to the treasury. I wanted to share that information with the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0349par0729	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0350par0730	He must have twisted the subject of the truth. The secretary would like to answer that question, sir.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0349par0731	There's a demand for words according to 60. Yes, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0351par0734	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, when you look at the law of the Entity Fund, I've already told the joke with that clause. The third joke (c) says: The existential Fund says:: I request that this money will be transferred to funds that will fund projects, develop resources based on projects, provide external project loans and provide resources through other methods. You return, look at the definition of this law, and say: This money will be transferred to the funds that will fund projects. I ask you, this is the description of the asset Fund itself. The asset Fund has taken over this country's PTT (PTT), this country's People's Bank, and the republic's values to mortgage. He's going to mortgage them and borrow them, and now you're telling me: "No, he's going to transfer funds to the Treasury." Turkey does not have an oil source, it does not have a natural presence, this asset Fund is clearly a mortgage fund.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0352par0737	Mr. President, I have a request again for a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0738	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0352par0740	Sir, I'm telling you something about matter, which means I don't agree to be expressed as a distortion. Here's the thing: I'm telling you what the law wants to do. I'm telling you, the Entity Fund already has its own source, so the companies in its portfolio are profit-making companies. Thus, there is already a source in the Entity Fund that will be saved. The Treasury won't transfer a source back to a fund while the source is piling up. The purpose here is that we are currently able to finance the higher funds in our existing legislation, but there are difficulties in the mechanism that will finance the higher funds and allow them to reach the companies. So if the Treasury is going to fund these funds directly, if it's going to be worth $1, twice as much, the future, the institutions that are going to build this fund will be able to fund it. That's the purpose, that's the purpose. Oh, he may think differently, but that's what's intended here. And those projects -- what I just said -- are the financing of technology-related companies. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0745	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0746	Sir, we'd like another word from 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0747	Yes?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0355par0748	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0749	We want words according to 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0750	Wait, you have a commitment request, what's it about?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0751	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0752	Mr. Böke, there is no such procedure. I beg you very much, there is no such procedure, Mr. Ozkoç.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0753	He wants to respond to the charge according to 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0754	But there's no such thing as... I mean, you want it without picking on it, you answer it here, or you... So what's he going to answer now, according to 60?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0755	He'll explain the information.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0356par0756	I need an explanation.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0757	How?
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0354par0758	He's going to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0353par0759	Okay, say that then. Here, you want to make a statement...
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0357par0761	Mr. President, he's talking for five minutes, he's making a statement from there; there's no such procedure, but in the House, please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0358par0762	So did you, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0359par0765	Thank you very much. We've made a lot of questions, and we haven't been able to answer any of the questions about whether or not the wealth fund has money or where it's being used. Now, since the Entity Fund has its own money, why does it need to borrow $5 billion from China, the question arises as a very clear question. I also need to underline that there's no shortage of access to funds in Turkey, and no one has access to funds where there's no law. If the asset Fund had its own existence, it wouldn't be on the road to borrow $5 billion from China. My respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit09spe0360par0776	I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-15sit10spe0360par0001	I now open the tenth session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 502. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We'll begin negotiations with Bill 457. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be found, it is Thursday (November 16th, 2017) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
