tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to the MP Fatma Kaplan, who asked for a comment on the problems of Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I've been promised the problems of the esteemed lawmakers. I salute the grand jury. The Izmit Bay environment has been attractive to the settlement of large and fertile lands in the east, with rich water potential, in every period of history. While the city was industrializing, it was quickly migratory. The new population's need for housing has begun to grow rapidly. However, our city suffered a tragic disaster in the August 17, 1999 earthquake, where 17,000 people died, hundreds of thousands of people were injured and homeless. It's been 18 years since then, but we're not far from the earthquake site in 1999, unfortunately. Since the earthquake, we still have many citizens who have been condemned to live in more medium-damaged buildings. Our people live on in concrete coffins. Another problem is that after the earthquake, urban transformation becomes a random transformation in many regions. In the province of Eren Cedit, the district of Izmit, where the fight against the earthquake was carried out very slowly, 1,485 houses were destroyed in 2006, instead of 972 homes that smelled of total rant. Our people's homes were taken from them at a cost. In addition, 11 million were also damaged, according to the Court reports, due to the discounts the City Housing has made in a way that is not in accordance with the law and regulations. Court reports have identified dozens of irregularities and unfair gains made through Kent Housing, and even a large number of receipts have been issued under the name of the "Fiftar" food, even though it is not Ramadan. We've made a lot of motions about it, but it still hasn't been answered, unfortunately. The year is 2017, and now the smell of rants is coming from our districts of Gebze and Çayırova, west of Kopeli. In the Emek and Inönu neighborhoods of our province of Çayırova, the city was asked to launch an urban transformation project in 2009, and the two neighborhoods were covered by urban transformations in accordance with the decision taken with the councils of the Kopeli Metropolitan Municipality and Meadowova Municipality. However, the municipality has not shared any information on how to build a project, who, how to give an apartment, or whether the commercial rights holders of the project will be given a place. The mayor said he'd given up urban transformation, but he still hasn't done the necessary procedures. As the mayor failed to keep his promise, the Ministry of Environment will open the fields in question. In the neighborhoods of Gebze Hurriyet and Yavuz Selim, zoning plans and deeds have not been issued for years due to 2/B. The mayor promised the citizen a deed before the 2014 local elections. That promise still hasn't been fulfilled, and unfortunately, it's turned into a snake story. Later, these neighborhoods were declared a project area by law, which means they want to be introduced into the Disaster Act. So the right of the citizen's deed will be removed, people will be given money over the price of the wreckage, people will be forced to emigrate, and in the future, friends, I'm sorry, that's what the law says. There's nothing we can do. You can buy your square meter at 500 lira, or you can take the spoils and they'll say, "May God make your way clear." The people who live in these neighborhoods are the real owners. This policy in the region is a kind way of saying, "Get out of here." Although our people have 2/B rights, they no longer want their problems to be provided during every election period. We've seen how these project sites have turned into Rant doors in Izmit. Now we see the same rant scents in our area of Meadow and Gebze. The people who were displaced from their homeland in Izmit want to join their caravan now with the citizens of Meadow and Gebzeli. Finally: Izmit, which cannot be finished at the centre, now that he has returned to the snake story, we will open this day at every turn. The tram project, which they call the "Izmit" project, unfortunately, is even more infuriating, making the traffic jam that already exists in Izmit worse, and because the project is not finished, the merchants around it have to shut down the shutters all the time. Because of these projects, many of our people are constantly victims of these projects that have been wronged, wronged, and cannot be finished, and have to shut down their shops. I think it's important for city managers to do business with more sensitive, more knowledgeable companies who know the city, who know the city, who know the fabric of the city. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmuş, who wants to talk about issues in Sur. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I congratulate you on the days of our farewell, and I wish you all the blessings and salvation. The Holy Prophet (SAV) describes the last days of Ramazanah's last days in the form of deliverance from fire, freedom from torment, hell. In fact, these explanations of hell and fire, these interpretations are not just about the apocalyptic punishment, but also about Hell, which man has set on fire by his own hand. For example, the concept of the Qur'an in Kerim is not only for the ephemeral life, but also for hell, which is lit by the hand of mankind in this world. Now, with the movement of this earthly hell, not only did fire fall in the district of Diyarbakır Sur fall, but the fire that fell in Sur district did not just burn Suru, Cizreyyi, Silopi. In fact, it was a fire that fell on this country, and it was a fire that burned this country. And I'm afraid it wouldn't be unfair to say that our country is still burning in that fire. As you know, even if you sometimes overlook historical events, even if they were covered up through official history, local history, social history, universal history would never, ever allow you to cover up real events. See, when we were told about the '90s, we were reminded of the years when we were all suffering from satires and our sleeps escaped. What were those years? According to NGO reports, almost 2 million people were facing migration, as well as death, murder, oppression, and imprisonment in this country during a period in which the settlement was evacuated, villages, mehras, and NGOs reported. Today, I turn to the ruling associates and say, unfortunately, what has happened in this country over the past two years and what has happened in the 90s is now being compared to what has happened in this country. Look, I'm saying this in general when I say it here, and in fact, we all suffer from these events, and we all have responsibilities. But the sad thing is that the fire that falls on the Surah, the fire that falls on the country, is the fire that actually falls on the stoves, which unfortunately is given messages about those furnaces, we attend funerals, but unfortunately we don't back down as we know it. As I complete my words with these thoughts and feelings, I wish that these last days of the Sheriff would be a source of peace for both our country and our community, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. The third unscheduled statement is from Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın, who called it the Day of Fighting Desertization in the World on June 17th. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on June 17th, World Desertation and the War on Drought Day. I salute the High Council. June 17th, 1994, was the day the United Nations decided to celebrate the Earth's Battle of Desertization Day. The climate change, desertification and drought that we all feel are among the most important problems in the world today. The desertification and drought, which directly threaten more than 4 billion hectares and more than 168 billion people in more than 168 million countries, is not only an environmental problem, but also a negative influence on the economy, security and development. After terror and wars, the biggest migration is desertification. Desertification, defined as the destruction of the land and the decline of its productivity or loss, is the final point of soil destruction. In our country, 65 percent of its total area is dry and half dry ecosystems, fighting desertification is of great importance. Forest fires are the beginning of the risks that threaten the forests of the world. We've made great progress in fighting forest fires in our country. Compared to other Mediterranean countries such as Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey and the climate alike, fires show that we have lost much less forest space. Turkey is one of the rare countries in 1973-2015, where forest existence has increased both as a buyer and as a wood fortune. Our forest field reached 22.3 million hectares in 1972, at 20.2 million hectares in 2015, and our goal in 2030 is to increase our forest presence to 30 per cent. The storage of rainwaters is of great importance in the fight against drought. In this context, many dams and ponds were built in Turkey. The 1,000 Pond Project has been implemented in 1,000 days. In the last thirteen years, 320 dams have been built and the number of dams across the country has been raised to 700. The amount of land carried by erosion in Turkey was 500 million tonnes in the 1970s, and has been reduced to about 168 million tonnes per year. By 2030, this amount is intended to be reduced to 130 million tonnes. Mr. President, in October 2015, our country hosted the 12th Conference of Sides of the United Nations Convention on Anti-Frenchization, and was elected as the term president of the contract for two years. Also, for two years, Parliamentary Forum President is being co-operated with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and with the Forum of Business. The Parliamentary Forum has formed the Deserting Work Group within the Turkish Grand National Assembly to coordinate presidential activities; it has created goals for balancing national land destruction and has prepared its national report. According to this, by 2030 a million hectares of wooding, 750,000 hectares of reform, 2 million hectares of agricultural reform. One of the most important obligations that the parties must carry out under the Anti-Deaf Convention, which our country was part of in 1998 is to draft an action plan. Turkey has prepared and implemented the National Action Plan against Desertization. Under the plan, the Land Protection and Land Use Act has been implemented. The Earth Pollution Control Act has been issued. The wet area management plans have been laid out. Containment forests are built to protect water basins. Turkey continues to take the fight against desertification and erosion to a global level and lead the 12th Conference on Parties during the term presidency. As part of the fight against desertification, 54 African countries are co-operated with 48. Turkey regularly gives international training to about 100 experts in Africa, Central Asia and Balkan countries each year to fight desertification. The only way to cope with desertification, the silent disaster of the world facing humanity, is to use the ability of countries to act effectively in cooperation and to act in common in the face of a common problem. Turkey, which is aware of this consciousness, will continue by increasing its activities in the international arena. It is our primary responsibility to leave a Turkey that has no worries about dehydration and desertification for future generations. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to go into the electronic system, and I'm going to take turns making a promise to the members of parliament who are demanding a word. Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. The villagers of Alpagut and Carnivals in the Keles district of Burma are experiencing great injustice and despair. The General Directorate of Highways Keles-Tavshanlı is trying to nationalize the village's land to expand its territory, but the price of publicisation, which is 15 to 16,000 in other villages of the district, unfortunately, is intended to be determined by 3-4 thousand liras in these two villages. The peasant's already in trouble, and the farmer's in a position to stand because of 15 years of wrong policies. These two villages show up compared to other villages, which are worth 3-4 thousand liras of publicisation. We don't want to think otherwise, but these two villages seem to be being punished as if they were being punished. We're warning the authorities from here. I demand that the price be determined for this village, just like any other village, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0009par0056	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0010par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. The wheat harvest began in Hatay Amik Plain. This year, we see an increase in wheat production from the previous year. The Earth Products Office will start to purchase trusts in order to satisfy the need for storage and financing by the manufacturers, but the price is not yet announced. Since the price is unaccounted for, our farmers will be able to use a 30% advance on last year's purchase price in exchange for the product they left in escrow. Why don't you explain the price earlier? Every day the land crop office waits to explain its purchase price, it means the farmer's getting a little more depressed. As a government, you have to support the Earth crop office so your manufacturer can support them so they don't fall into the hands of loan sharks and brokers. The price of the wheat purchase...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0011par0062	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0012par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Tell me why you were born, my child. You don't have a week, you don't have a month, you don't have an uncle in Ankara. Tell me why you were born. While our nation is waiting for the political foot to be discovered, the relatives of the AKP are being evacuated one by one. It causes deep wounds to the conscience of society. I wish the law on grooms could be applied to Mehmetchiks for three or five days, who don't even know how to hold a gun, who don't know anything. I wish the law that sees the groom's fixed residence would not treat journalists like migratory birds. I wish we could live in a country where the rule of law prevails, not the law of the superior. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0013par0070	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0014par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. While finishing the year of education and teaching, one of the most important problems has been in our schools and especially among children in different age groups, which are often seen following the 4+4+4 education system. The frequency of verbal, emotional, physical violence among students in different age groups has increased. The Education Reform Initiative and the Turkey Education Volunteers Foundation's report also revealed that children do not feel safe at school. Despite all our warnings, I urge emergency measures and regulations to provide our children with a safe educational environment with a system of 4+4+4 which has destroyed the education system.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0013par0074	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0015par0076	Mr. President, the 6.3 magnitude earthquake in the Aegean yesterday was felt throughout the region, particularly in İzmir; thankfully, there were no casualties. In 1999, the Marmara earthquake burned all of our hearts and stood where there were unplanned urbanization, risky construction, impromptu control and uneducated masses that caused the loss of our lives. So, have we learned from what happened? Of course not. The next earthquake, as scientists agree, will be above 7° and at the Marmara (Marma), but now at the 470 assembly site set up after 1999, the skyscrapers and the AVM (AVM) are rising, double roads were made with earthquake taxes. Dear friends, 18 years after the Marmara earthquake, nothing has changed in Turkey, unfortunately we are in worse shape. I'm warning the government. We don't want to put our ears to the piles of concrete and rubble again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0016par0080	Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0017par0082	Mr. President, the Lake Burdur has increased by 30 percent in the last 30 years due to the decline of roughly 40 per cent in the area and volume. Especially in recent years, its effects have increased the amount of phosphorus in the lake, while the saltiness of lake water has continued to rise because of the water level of Lake Burdur, which we have felt more clearly. I demand immediate action plan for the rescue of Burdur Lake. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0016par0084	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0018par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. During the AKP administrations, the practice of spooning and scooping is a victim to all who work. Since 2002, the average officer's salary has dropped 1,085 lira per month and 515 lira on the lowest officer's salary. Officers' salaries have not increased in proportion to economic growth and inflation since 2002. This year, civil servants' salaries have melted 76 liras in four months. Minority that feed on Rant contributes to its existence. When his pensioner, unemployed, young man, woman, employee, is full of problems and his life span is increasing, the positive results shown by tampering with numbers are deception. The market is a place of fire. The failure of the AKP government to provide support for workers, unemployed, pensioners, not Ranta has raised problems. Any additional increase should not be crushed by inflation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0019par0090	Mr. Ilyas Sugar...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0020par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week was Environment Week, not without sharing the environmental investments made by our city municipality. The green area per person was raised from 0.40 square meters to 12 square meters to make the gray city, the city before the AK PARTY, which had been raised to 7,700,000 saplings. The number of wastewater treatment facilities was raised from 4 to 22. 99 percent of the wastewaters were purified and 170 tonnes of mud per day prevented from pouring into the Gulf. While the city's face was changed by urban transformation, he also became ambitious in tourism with investments in the environment, with three Blue Flag beaches in total, and the fourth one on the way. In the Gulf of Izmit, decorated with Osman Gazi Bridge, we expect all our deputies and citizens to take a vacation in Kopeli, where the sun sets from zero jeans, to enjoy the rich nature tourism of the sea and its flora. For the work that's been done...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0019par0095	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0021par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, June 12th is the World War Against Child Labor Day. As the AKP government cannot offer our children a good life and a good future, it cannot protect children from labour exploitation and abuse. According to TÜİK data, the number of children working between the ages of 15 and 17 increased from 601,000 in 2012 to 708,000 in 2016, four years later. The total number of child workers exceeds 2 million. Moreover, 78% of the working children are uninsured. In 2016, 56 children were killed in labor. Turkey is number 1 in child poverty among European countries. These kids don't have parties, they don't have political opinions, we all have children. Now, as a pediatrician, I ask the AKP's authority, whose shame is this? Is that a job, too?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0022par0101	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0023par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Ali Gödreesi, the metrobus driver, died as a result of a metrobus accident in Istanbul's southeastern province at the weekend, while more than 30 of our citizens were injured. First, my condolences to the family of our driver, who lost his life, and to our wounded citizens, an urgent cure. Unfortunately, recent metrobus accidents that have resulted in the injuries or deaths of our citizens continue to follow. In recent months, we have tried to draw attention to similar accidents in the Metrobuses at the Assembly General Assembly, and we have called on Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality to take the necessary measures, but unfortunately, our calls that have not been answered have cost the lives of a citizen. I would like to address the IBB authorities once again: How long will you ignore our warnings and the concerns of our citizens, and how many more people do you expect to die in order to take the necessary precautions? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0024par0107	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0025par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Interior and Justice Minister: In a video shared on social media on May 9, 2017, a person named Hasan Akar, a member of the Nursian community, was issued a warrant by the prosecution to arrest Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey and the main reason we are now under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and to publicly insult Ataturk, and to his family, as a result of the right and intense response of all our citizens. It's been a month since the incident, Hasan Akar is still on the run. Why can't prosecutors and law enforcement, who are public media insult hunters, find this guy? Or is he being protected and protected? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0026par0112	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0027par0114	Mr. President, after nearly six months of the Medical Branch Specialty Exam held by the OSYM on 17 December 2016, the test results of child health and disease, women's disease and birth, internal diseases, infections, and clinical microbiology have still not been announced. Our specialists are curiously awaiting the announcement of their scores on the exam. As we have a doctor's deficit, it has been explained by the OSD that the judicial process is still under way due to many questions about the examination. The wrong questions of the CSI have been transformed into a source of victimization in almost every test. I'm calling on those in charge of resolving these victims as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0026par0116	Mr. Whitebird Illustration...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0028par0118	Mr. President, I begin by saying hello to those who stand up for the right of labor. The workers are preparing to march for severance pay on the anniversary of the 15 June 16 June 1970 resistance. Like forty-seven years ago, the working class opposes those who try to eliminate their rights today with honor, hard work, hard work, sweat. Let it not be forgotten that severance is the last bastion of workers, the right of their sweats. It's the right to hand over the right to the fund with a arbitrary decision. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: Do you want to create a new covered grant by handing over the workers' severance to the fund? Will you also guarantee seniority for subcontractors? Will you be taxed on the fund account on behalf of the employees? The transfer of severance to the fund in this way makes it institutional to insecurity and flexible work. We will never allow this to happen by fighting with all the workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0029par0122	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0030par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: Why did last year's newspaper report -- an informal flight -- land at the Gaziantep Airport -- land at Gaziantep Airport and land at Gaziantep Airport? Is this an off-the-book landing? There is no flight from Gaziantep to Qatar, and no flight from Qatar to Gaziantep. For what legal reasons and reasons did this plane belonging to Qatar have landed on Gaziantep last year? Is there an off-the-book job here? Public opinion needs to be briefed, and I demand that the government or the Prime Minister inform the public immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0031par0127	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0032par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. A lawsuit has been filed against President Özkan Rona, who has announced that a pro-government union member has been suspended in his school manager's interviews in Burma, almost all of the appointments have been carried out from among these union members. In this trial, which will be held tomorrow's first hearing, Mr. Özkan Rona is ordered to serve four years in prison. On the other hand, in the face of allegations that separate classes have been opened for girls and boys about the Inönu Middle School Director and vice principals in İnegöl, Bursa National Education Directorate has responded to the application of the EDUS-IM-Birza Branch on the matter that there is no need for any action. It is evident that nothing is done for those who violate the basic education law when it is required to serve prison sentences for those who protect the rights and educational laws of the educators. This is the justice and justice of this period of conquest.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0033par0133	Mr. Nazli...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0034par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish intellectuals' faces, honor of ideas, master of pencils, strong pen, brave heart Cemil Meric received his mercy today, saying goodbye to the world thirty years ago. I would like to be the conscience of an era, an age, or rather a country. I'd like to break the chains, destroy the lies, destroy all the walls that separate the Turkish people from the Turkish people. The love of the country and the nation has always been at the top in Cemil Meric. The Turkish man always expressed his love for love and understanding before knowledge. He refers to them as crazy shirts that are clothed in our senses. Hence, he has isolated himself from all social quarrels, been a guide, enlightening, and warning to the nation. On this occasion, on the 30th anniversary of his death, I greet the high assembly with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0035par0140	I, too, honour and mercy remember Cemil Meric on the 30th anniversary of his death. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0036par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP, who said that it respects national will but did not respect the election of non-compulsors in the Union of Unions, Associations and NGOs and NGOs, eventually dismissed Mevlüt Topkaya and its administration, which is the President of the Association of Afyonkarahisar Horsemen and Goat Growers. The Republican People's Party, which has been re-elected after that, has not launched the post of Mehmet Pala, a candidate for mayor of the Republican People's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) Mayor in the 2014 local elections. Both presidents were wronged because they were Republican People's Party? We expect a public statement, especially from the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0035par0146	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0037par0148	Mr. President, I asked Mr. Naci Agbal in writing, and I didn't get an answer. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of Defense once more verbally. I hope you'll explain to him the reality of the situation. On October 5, 2016, the Ministry of Finance staff was poisoned by the food prepared by Rotary Catering, who was responsible for the poisoning of the military forces. The contract with the Rotary company behind this incident was terminated on October 27, 2016. I want to know if that's true. Again, the bacteria that breeds in foods in poisoning at the Finance Ministry is the same bacteria that breeds in military units, the salmonella bacteria. Now, I'd like to ask you: are the tenders of state institutions and barracks to the Rotary company, based on the ancient friendship between the company's partners, Veysi Avsar and AKP MP Haluk Silk? It's always the same company under the poisonings.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0035par0150	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım... One minute of conversation is over. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to take turns making a promise to the vice presidents. Mr. Erkan Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0038par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, an earthquake of 6.2 magnitude occurred between Karaburun and the Pony in the Aegean Sea. The earthquake was felt in many counties, including Istanbul, İzmir, Manisa, Bursa, Edirne, Afyon. After the earthquake, there were 45 aftershocks the size of 3 and above. Since yesterday, we've been monitoring the public statements of earthquake experts. It is said that the energy of the earthquake has not yet been drained, that the 6.2-alarm tremor is a stimulus earthquake, and that similar sizes need to be prepared for new earthquakes. There's an important experience in our country about after the earthquake, and there's a lot of savings. I think we have enough experience and savings in disaster control, search and rescue, aid to the wounded and the victims, both in public institutions and civil society organizations. However, there are two aspects of fighting the earthquake, as we have expressed earlier on various occasions. One of them is to prepare for the earthquake after the earthquake, the other one, and perhaps more importantly, the earthquake. An earthquake is an undeniable fact of our country. Our country is above three major fault lines: the Aegean graben region, the Northern Anatolia fault and the East Anatolia fault. Therefore, strategies must be developed to reduce the loss of life in the fight against earthquakes, to minimize economic loss; efforts to improve our buildings and raise awareness of our citizens must be weighed down. I hereby offer our best wishes to all citizens who have experienced the earthquake.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0039par0160	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0038par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 30th anniversary of the death of our country's philosopher, great Turkish intellectual and idea man Cemil Meric. It is like an oasis in the desert, which contains a great wisdom and the appeal of civilization to its 70-year-old life. He has never been an artificial, mediatic celebrity that will be forgotten after two days. Certifying the width of the atlas of thought with his works, Cemil Meric is a time-resistant contractor. It's been decades since this country, the Cavers, the Forty Ambars, the Umrandan Civilization, the Light came from the East, and the Jurnals, but even today, we expand our horizons every time we turn around and read. In his works, he weighed facts, events, individuals, and situations with the conscience, wisdom, and the scales of mankind.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0040par0166	Complete, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0038par0167	Cemil Meric is, in his own words, a bridge that binds a great past to a greater future. I hereby remember Cemil Meric with mercy and gratitude. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0041par0170	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0042par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to show you a few examples of how the ruling party used the judiciary to politicize and turn it into a revenge against our party in political genocide operations against our party since November 4, 2016. Today, two of our co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, had hearings in Kayseri. If I were to make it very brief about the trial at Kayseri, it would be clear to us that we are facing a situation where anyone who's a little bit of law will be ashamed. On May 9, 2015, about a month before the election, our Kayseri county office was attacked by some racist factions, and after that attack, the Security Directorate did not take precautions, even though it was informed. Our party has filed a criminal complaint, and even though we have filed a criminal complaint about the negligence of police or governorship, there has been no action, of course, a trial for our two co-captains, as they forced the chief prosecutors against political power and the court's policy of provoking our party to prepare a complaint against us. What is it? We're framing the gentlemen. Our people should know that. Think about it. The point is to search for rights, to seek law, to press charges against those who are negligent of legal work. Is that different for our co-Chairs and our other arrested MPs? No. All of our friends are being tried for politics, for fighting rights and legal struggles, and they're being held hostage today.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0043par0178	I'll turn on your mic, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0042par0179	Thank you. Imagine, our two co-Chairs didn't give any talks in Kayseri, they didn't engage in any political activities, they didn't engage in any criminal activity, but the political government instructed the Attorney Generals. Let me have salt in this soup for promotion. Kayseri has sprinkled such salt in it. You don't speak, you don't have a verb, you don't have an activity, but today, such an embarrassing trial walked at the Kayseri Courthouse. Is it different there, but with the others? Last week, a lawsuit was filed against Şırnak MP Ferhat Encu, who was sentenced to four years and ten months in prison, following the proceedings and complaints of Şırnak Deputy Governor and Beytüşşebap Kaymak. Both those two men, Şırnak Vice Governor and Beytüşşebap Kaymak, are for a terrorist power.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0044par0183	Complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0042par0184	I am, Mr. President. They're both currently under arrest for being members of a terrorist organization and for being involved in a coup. These are the key signs of what kind of law political power is hiding behind. I've got dozens of samples like this. Just a few examples of how political power is hiding behind the law, how they use coupgers as shieldes, how the complaints of those whom the government considers to be terrorists are justified by the current government; and as long as it comes to it, we will continue to describe them.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0044par0186	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0045par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. This great Parliament has told a nickel-cobalt mine in Gördes district of Manisa, in the 24th term, a facility owned by Meta Mining, how much we object as the Republican People's Party, and how much damage it will do to the environment, not only in Gördes, but in many parts of the world, when the CED reports have returned to the summerboard, while the political power remains behind it. One of our biggest criticisms was that hundreds of trucks, 20 tons of sulfuric acid a day, would climb up and down a very difficult road to the mine. In the past few months, after January and May, another sulfuric acid tanker has collapsed today. There was 20 tons of sulfuric acid, a major environmental disaster, animal damage, for example, a few minutes later, where the bus took a bus and the students were not there by accident. Are you opposed to being a manipulative person at work? If we dig up the mine there, those who don't listen to the right concerns of the Republican People's Party on that day should remember that we have passed the edge of the disaster once more and that a major environmental disaster was one of those back exits in those days, and that responsibility has to be answered and answered to the public in some way.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0046par0194	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0045par0195	Also, there has been an earthquake storm in Manisa, about four months ago, and yesterday the 6.3 - magnitude earthquake in the Aegean Sea was felt in a very large geography, but Manisa had already disturbed the villages of our Saruhanlı and the villages of our lakemarmara, which had already remained in hundreds of tents and containers. In fact, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be prepared for Istanbul, for Izmir, for all our cities, and for these great earthquakes that we know are approaching every day, what are our shortcomings, and what are they? As the Republican People's Party on this issue, we'll have a parliamentary research commission request within the next week, and I'd like to express it. Finally, Mr. President, in fact under the Constitution, the new President of the Justice and Development Party, confirming all our criticism of the referendum process, on Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0047par0199	Complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0045par0200	...to the elected lawmakers in charge of this roof, where the sovereignty belongs to the nation, which has brought the separation of forces to the ground, and today, unfortunately, has been instructed to mention the name of their party and another political party. Until yesterday, when the ruling party MPs were saying another working calendar, under the roof of this Parliament, it will be studied until this date, the Civil Charter will be issued. We remind all lawmakers once again as Republican People's Party, no matter which party is responsible for the independence of law and the responsibility we have received from the nation, both for its own party and for its direct approach to a political party.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0047par0201	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0048par0204	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today are the 30th anniversary of the death of Jamil Meric. Cemil Meric has made great contributions to the Turkish thinking world and has been a guide to our society through his tests. Cemil Meric was an exceptional intellectual, an idea worker who devoted his life to ideas, embraced the sea of thought from Plato to Marx. He was saying to himself, Cemil Meric: Who am I? He's a recluse and an intellectual worker who dedicated his life to Turkish wisdom. I'd like to be the conscience of an era, an age, or rather a country. I'd like to break the chains of understanding, destroy the lies, tear down all the walls that separate Turkish people from Turkish people. I'd like to be the bridge of a great past to a greater future, a bridge of words, of love. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. Mr. President, we are not going to take legal lessons from those who are using it as a shield from those who are hiding behind the PKK terror organization who commit petty murders and commit massacres without listening to children. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0207	Thank you, Mr. Mush. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0050par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0211	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0050par0212	If I will not mention your name, sir, for our sake and for our party, I will return the word "bastard" with a thousand times the word "killer." I also condemn the revelation of this Parliament, the saintly month we are in, that those who are not cleansed of language live with this language poisoning and poison this place.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0213	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0051par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0215	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0051par0216	The PKK is a low terrorist organization, a murderer. I stand by my words. Those who are hiding behind the PKK terrorist organization are my words.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0218	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0052par0219	First you're gonna answer, then you're gonna answer that law freak.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0051par0220	We will, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0049par0221	There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The government's attempt to silence the opposition and the press on this issue, as if silenced by ISIS attacks was not enough, shows that there are some reservations about ISIS that the public does not know about. The ISIS and Al Nusra terrorist organisations, which have come up with the internal unrest in Syria, have been known to target Turkey at various times before. It is also known that the attack on Reyhan in 2013 was carried out by 53 people who lost their lives. In March 2014, ISIS militants shot security forces in Niğde and killed two people and wounded five others. Reports of attacks on Rojava, which the Kurds have transformed into autonomous zones in northern Syria, were frequently reported in cities such as Şanlıurfa and Gaziantep. On the other hand, documents and findings showing Turkish-based vehicles, aid boxes include documents showing that ISIS militants have been trained in Turkey and have received weapons aid from Turkey and reports in national and international media that show the need to investigate the issue. ISIS's carrying out the Niğde and Reyhanite terrorist attacks has revealed the need to expose the organisation's links to Turkey. The ISIS terrorist organization has assessed the chaos in Syria, especially in the last three years, expanding its organisation here, and has found an opportunity to provide logistical support and organisation members with Turkey and the gap in border security. A live bomb attack carried out in Diyarbakır on June 6, 2015 and the death of our citizens in Suruç's bomb attack in Suruç on July 20th, while the suffering of their wounded citizens is still intact and the social impact of the peace rally, organised by trade organisations on October 10, 2015, was launched by the terrorist group ISIS, and 102 citizens have lost their lives. The fact that this organisation was not officially considered a terrorist organisation by the AKP governments during its emergence and organisation has given the impression that Turkey supports ISIS in large circles, especially in the world's public. Sympathic-looking descriptions of this group by government officials and even by the Prime Minister have strengthened that perception. A decision issued by the Supreme Court said that since there is no evidence that ISIS has officially been accepted by Turkey as a terrorist organisation, it has been deemed necessary to ask the Interior Ministry for information regarding this organisation, and another recent decision has been passed by the Supreme Court as ISIS, a terrorist organization. These differing positions stem from the lack of a decision on Turkey's official organisation of Turkey. The only step Turkey has already taken on this issue is the implementation of the UN's measures on the assets of terrorist organisations by Turkey as well. Turkey should favour peace and reconciliation, not a conflict of sects in the Middle East. Actions must also be made against inhumane practices aimed at sectarian conflict by terrorist organisations such as ISIS. The ISIS, which shares images of humanity committing crimes every day, is increasingly a threat to Turkey. In order to investigate the terrorist actions of ISIS, which may have been carried out by entering Turkey or by entering Turkey, and to ensure that effective and necessary measures are taken in order to prevent new ones, we propose the opening of the Parliament's investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 7) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, we offer you information that the Constitution should be established on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to protect and improve olive production fields, to improve oil production, to prevent reductions in oil production and to address the problem for our citizens, to increase oil per capita consumption and to make necessary arrangements. With all due respect. 1) Kamil Okyay Set [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Ankara]] 5) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Denizli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] Turkey is one of the world's leading producers of olives and olive oil, along with other Mediterranean countries, such as Italy, Spain, Greece and Tunisia, with its geographical location and its Mediterranean climate properties. In our country, olives and olive oil are mainly produced in the Aegean and Marmara region. Aydın, İzmir, Muğla, Balıkesir, Manisa and Çanakkale are the main cities where production takes place. An ups and downslaught of olive production has been observed for years, and a year of low production is a year (no year) of high yields. This also determines the amount and prices of olive oil (periodisity). But for reasons such as the loss of olive groves that were first sacrificed to mining and energy companies and the lack of proper care, the failure of harvest and irrigation techniques, the olive production of olives, and the difference between the years of production is huge. In addition to olive production, the price increase in olive oil fell due to climate change, some market speculators have been effective, as well as other reasons why olive production cannot be preserved and can't be produced in appropriate ways. As a result, oil prices are among the food products that our citizens suffer from inability to buy. The lack of efficiency in recent years, rising oil prices, and predicts that the price of olive oil will increase further in the coming years, require a central approach to the problem. In our country, which is an important olive planter, there should be deterrent measures to protect olive production areas, especially in which mining and energy investments prevent destruction. To increase the production of olives, the manufacturer, the merchant, the relevant ministry, the Agriculture Engineers' Chamber, a joint work and strategy should be developed, especially with the partners of exporters and union representatives. Our country's production of olives and olive oil will be possible with macroscale solutions to the issue, where our citizens can easily buy oil, consume it, and exchange foreign currency for our country. Otherwise, the problem will be difficult to resolve permanently with decisions and practices that save the day. Also, short-lived, temporary policies and decisions that can survive for centuries would violate the nature of this miracle plant. We need to increase the consumption of olive oil at the head of all dietary counsel that cures each affliction. It is imperative that we maintain our olive production, strategically, in order to increase the consumption of olive oil per person from 1.5 liters per person, to the same generation, and to the same olive producer countries -- 21 liters per person -- in Greece. In order for olive oil to increase internal consumption per capita, public-private institutions to compensate for lack of publicity in this regard, the cooperation of the public-private institutions must be developed. Also released under the name olive oil is the main issue of the field. The support given to the olive oil manufacturer must be adjusted to the manufacturer's benefit by updating the cost accounts. Today, oil producers in European Union member states receive about $5 per kilo, while we are at a level of 70p. It is not possible to increase the production of olive oil and compete in the outside market with these support rates. The oil production of 2012/2013 in Turkey was 195 thousand tonnes, while 180,000 tonnes in 2013/2014. This season, around 145 thousand tons are expected. The low quantity of the product and the height of the prices also affect our citizens negatively. On these grounds, it is of great importance that the High Assembly should seize the issue in order to ensure the protection and development of olive production fields in our country, to determine measures to increase oil production with local production sources, to investigate the causes of the decline in oil production and to address the problem, to provide healthy and calculated oil for our citizens, and to increase the consumption of oil per person. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Radish production, a major market share in the country's economy, has been largely affected by recent political and economic developments. By investigating the problems that the citrus manufacturers face during this process, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution be carried out so that the necessary legal arrangements can be made. [[Adana]] [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] 9) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sivas]] Turkey is among the top 10 countries in the world in the production of citrus. About 72 per cent of Turkey's total citrus is produced in the Çukurova region. 62% of the orange, 75 percent of the tangerine, 86 percent of the lemon, 96 percent of the grapefruit is also grown in this region. In Turkey, which covers 3% of the world's citrus production, 50% of the citrus production is orange. 32% of the total citrus produced in our country are exported abroad. The age of 2 million tons annually produces half of the fruit-sebze exports, which are citrus. The highest share of exports is 42 percent lemon. In total citrus exports, tangerine has 27 per cent, orange has 18 per cent, grapefruit has 13 per cent share. The countries where Turkey exports most in oranges and lemons are Russia, Ukraine, Romania and Saudi Arabia. These countries are followed by countries of the European Union. The most exported countries are Ukraine, Britain, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Eastern Europe and the European Union; and grapefruit are Russia, Britain, Romania, Poland and the European Union. From the recent political and economic crisis with Russia, the producers in Adana were the most affected by the narcissist's warehouse. 30 percent of the production has been harvested, and the remaining product is still in the branch. Most of the harvested goods are waiting for exports in the packaging warehouses. This is a major victim of citrus producers. Along with the victims of producers, thousands of workers who work in harvest labor and packaging are unable to go to work, causing social and economic problems. The crisis situation in Orange exports has caused producers to have difficulty collecting contracts that have been terminated and their checks returned. This indicates that farmers who are currently under the strain of payment may face difficulties in the production process in the coming years. At this point, it is important to expand the sanctions of the Hal Act to increase consumption in the domestic market, to publish relevant public spotlights, and to encourage the consumption of citrus in public institutions. The production of oranges should also be considered as increasing production costs in the process, such as gardening, feeding and prunes. Orange is a very important export product for our country and especially our Adana province. The recent political and economic developments in our country have had a negative impact on the Adana economy and the citrus producer. It is necessary to investigate the problems facing citrus producers and to open a parliamentary investigation to ensure that the necessary legal arrangements for this matter can be carried out. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and predicting whether or not the parliamentary investigation will be opened at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 13/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 13 June 2017, Parliamentary Assembly Deputy Ahmet Yıldırım proposed that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to determine the measures needed for extradition of all academics and public workers who had been illegally exported and expelled by the KHKs in 4812 rows and other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly would be presented in the same session Tuesday (13/6/2017). In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0053par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we've all seen the situation as an example of how these political genocide operations were conducted against our party's MPs, our co-Chairs, which our group's deputy has just expressed. I, on this occasion, salute all our deputies, our mayors, the mayors and the party in prison, the county executives, and the prisoners in prison, especially our Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş and Dear Figen Yüksekdağ, for their encouraging attitude that emphasizes the importance of hope, courage, unity, and unity. Dear lawmakers, especially after the July 15 coup attempt, a major attack policy has been carried out in Turkey, especially for public employees, and so far over 145 thousand public employees have been laid off from their jobs. Some of them were teachers and faculty members of KESK trade unions -- some 8,000 -- who spent their lives fighting against the practices of the Fetullahist congregation. Dear friends, exports have hit the most in the line of work and education industry so far. So far, there have been exports in the field of education, including 33,128 teachers, 5,318 academics and 1,194 administrative staff. It's almost a dead end to education. A million and a half students were left without a teacher. The government has tried to manage this as much as possible, with KHKs or temporary teaching assignments. Dear friends, some of the 5,000-odd academics were professors who were also peacemakers and said, "Don't let the children die." And again, some of the teachers were teachers who said, "Don't let the children die." They were teachers who used their right to leave work for one day. Dear friends, when teachers demand unions, the strike is recognised as a right both according to national law and international law. In fact, in many places the courts hand over this right, and although it has been stated that any administrative procedure on the subject is not right, only for that reason over 30,000 teachers have been expelled today. I'd like to give you a few more examples. Dear friends, 17 professors have been expelled from Dicle University with the last KHK. Look, as soon as they were discharged, their computers were confiscated, their rooms were taken away, their labs were locked down, and they were asked to evacuate their quarters within a week. Even though their computers had thesis on their students, important articles, their computers were taken from them. 12 percent of these professors were professors, dear friends. They had to evacuate the residence within a week. When these people go out on the street, they don't have the means to do anything else, so they're being treated like people without a home. Dear friends, all of these friends were friends of mine, three of whom I was a professor at Dicle University, and three of whom I served in the same department. All of our friends were professors who were rejected from the Tigris University, under the control of the Fetullahist community, or rather under the control of the congregations. I mean, they were at the time, and now they're at the gasdress. And how were those rectors appointed? Now, they say we're dealing with the Fetullahist community. For what reason, or by what authority or direction or direction or suggestion did you appoint them as rectors, even though they were third, fourth, fourth, fifth, sixth, sixth in the election at Dicle University? Why did you appoint them when you stood 1st and 2nd? Now, you're doing the same thing he does. If you want to deal with the congregation, dear friends, go after whoever put you up to it. If you move from there, that's when you'll be fighting the Confederacy. Now, you're not going to do this, but you're going to put the faculty on the street, and somehow you're going to make it impossible for them to live on the street, because you're going to stop him from working somewhere else with all kinds of violence. As a matter of fact, when teachers and paramedics want to work outside, you stop it. Now, here comes Bill 485. We've been saying for years that it's not right to work flexiblely at universities, and that professors should feel safe. We stated that the job of an assistant was not right because it was between two lips, and if the chancellor or the manager didn't like it, I wouldn't take you, I won't put you on the staff. Let all lecturers and researchers be taken according to 33/a. When we say, "This is what you put in a soup law." What does the development of industry have to do with the taking of academics, researchers with Article 33/a or the taking of Article 50/D? There's no connection. Live the soup. Dear friends, look, for this reason, Mehmet Fatih Shaş of Çukurova University was employed with 50/d, his doctorate was finished, and they threw him out. He applied to Toros University; gave up public universities; applied to foundation universities; was not taken for the same reason, and Mehmet Fatih Trav committed suicide. Today, you're leading professors, employees of this country to suicide. Look, we're going through a saintly, blessed day. It's on all of you, all of us. If that responsibility really doesn't mean anything to you, there's not much I can say to you. Today, teachers in National Education are miserable, dear friends, as I said, they seem to have been deprived of their homes. They've been exported, there's been no interrogation, no administrative or criminal investigation, they don't know why they've been relieved of their duties, but they've been taken, trying to prevent it even when they start working at another institution or somewhere else. Dear friends, today, I am making the list at the University of Dicle, which I have just mentioned, because the extensions of the Fetullahist community have prepared that list because research 17 of the 17 professors, ask your Diyarbakır MPs, they know very well that they have no contact with any congregation, any group. These people are the university's most successful professors, the highest article producers, most of the people who participate in symposiums, workshops. These people wanted to be prevented because they were successful. The Fetullahist parish extensions give you this list; look it up, ask your county, county agencies. Its responsibility is indeed too heavy to bear. You need to take a step back from the evil you've done to these people. Dear friends, I must say, today is the first year of July 15th. No one can fall in love with this persecution policy. Let's give it up and do a concrete study on the condition of these employees you've suspended from the public. The coven needs it, we all need it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0054par0448	I'll turn on your microphone, complete.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0053par0449	It's too much trouble for you, too, and you'll be overwhelmed by it. We offer you the means to return as soon as possible. Dear friends, yesterday we had a search of a deputy's car. It's not about the car being searched; it's about an armband, a sergeant major. Look, if he wasn't a public servant, he might have the right to say: I don't see you as my deputy, I don't vote for you. But I don't see you as a public servant's MP. Every day on TV, I don't know, they say... we've just expressed it all, saying that political power is done by instructions of the AKP court. Yesterday, it was a minor blow to Alican. When it happens to you tomorrow, it's a blow to the heart, and you can't see yourself getting any less. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0055par0454	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Burhanettin Uysal, Karabuk MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0056par0458	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the People's Democratic Party's motion to open parliamentary research for academics and public officials who have been expelled under the law. I hereby salute the High Council. Our HDP MP, who spoke before me, of course, explained the consequences of the incident, but did not mention the death of 249 people 11 months ago, the people who caused 2,193 injuries, and the bombing of this holy temple. I'd like to tell you about July 15th, and let's decide how we're going to answer for it together. Members of parliament, 11 months ago, Turkey faced an unprecedented attack that no state had ever experienced before on July 15, 2016; for nearly 40 years, public officials who were secretly nested inside the state were referring to our democracy, constitutional order and the will of the nation. This abomination, the sold gang members, the country and the nation's traitors have pointed the nation's planes, helicopters and weapons at the nation. Our beloved nation, who came to the square at the call of our president, stood in front of the tanks, shielding their breasts from the bullets. Our nation's representative, Turkey's Parliament of the Great Nation, which is the capitol of the national will, they bombed and rained bullets. We've gathered in our Veterans Parliament since the beginning of the coup attempt. We were the voice and the breath of our beloved nation in the same spirit, the same faith, that night, with all our differences aside from the party. Praise be to Allah. I bless the 249 martyrships, and the authorities shall inherit them. I'd like to go out in the square to be a martyr and express my gratitude to our veterans. This attack was not only a simple attempt at coup, but also to create chaos, mayhem, civil war to divide Turkey, and thanks to the epic heroism of our nation, this vile attempt was announced, which would not make the daily life of a citizen difficult, but would speed up the struggle with ▪. After the announcement of the state's state's cleansing policy, decrees have been issued in accordance with the law. It is intended to prevent possible threats against the country, the nation and the state, as well as to prevent similar attacks, as well as to pave the way for our state's fight against the beca. In fact, when the decrees are reviewed, regulations are subject to decontamination of public personnel, who have been considered to be a member of the terrorist organization, a personor or a defector or a contact with them. Thus, the benchmarks that first show that ▪ serves his purposes and goals have been established, and the process of decontamination has been established in accordance with the framework set by the laws of the law. We must all be in debt to fight until the fetullahist terror organization is wiped out. On the night of July 15th, they may not have picked up a gun. But where did all the people with guns get their power? Of course it's one of them. Who's to say they won't have guns tomorrow, either? The virus of betrayal is like poison in the body, it doesn't stay in one place, affects every organ, every cell, and eventually takes over the body, just like the cancer virus. And now we have to get rid of this body. Those who cooperate with the freedom of this country, those who wave their flags in public, no one wants to have them in public. But the separation of those who have no contact with them is within our conscience, our responsibility to the state, and the nation's sense of our responsibility. With the statement of our Prime Minister, we will not mix the straw with the handle. As a result of the investigations, those whose relationship with the Fetullahist terrorist organization has not been assessed will be extradited and continued to be returned to their duties with decrees. No state can give up its human capital. We all know how much time a professor, a doctor, a general, has invested in families, our government, to raise a general. And just when we're about to get fruit, it's not the work of any government with a mind, a will, but we've got no choice but to do it. Congressmans, it is not for the first time that public officials involved in violations have been purged of the state system in Turkey. For example, in 1991 in Czechoslovakia, in 1992 in Bulgaria, 1993 in Albania, 1994 in Hungary, 1997 in Poland, 1999 in Romania and 1999 in the East, after the merger of West Germany, the cleansing policies were used in different ways in Germany. Dear lawmakers, no matter who is in power or opposition, no matter who is in the position of responsibility, it is essential for our country's indivisible integrity to fight together for the removal of the state with all its elements. On the night of the 15th of July, the political approach and behavior of our government to block or shadow the same policy of cleansing, as it is not right to shoulder our democracy, our constitutional order, and the nation's will, as we did not face the same risk and danger again. Once again, I say I am against this proposal, and I salute your great delegation and our nation.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0057par0471	Thank you, Mr. Easy.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0058par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0057par0473	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0058par0474	Mr. President, the motion is based on reason, we're discussing academics in the field of reason; no doubt, different issues can be discussed here, but the speaker has come upon our group with this motion that we cannot condemn the bombing of our Parliament. I'd like a quote from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0057par0476	Mr. Lightning, I'll have the reports brought in, I'll take a look. If there's a tease, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0058par0477	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak from my position in accordance with the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0057par0478	Here you go, I give you my word on the 60th Amendment.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0058par0481	Now, Mr. Orator has spoken through his twisted logic that all of the exporters are............ For example, I'm asking you, Ibrahim Kaboğlu. It says: "We don't know if they will take weapons in their hands later. " That's exactly what it says. On the night of July 15th, they had no weapons, but we don't know if they're going to take weapons. For example, does Abraham Kaboglu take a gun or take it? Jehangir Islam took a gun in his hand? Did Namih Özakça take a gun in his hands? We are talking about those who fought against the country, even though they were fighting Smiley all their life, and those who fought against them as the power and the laughing arm made the whole country vomit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're talking about all those who oppose power today being victims of these KHK (KK), but even these academics are talking about the possibility that they might be armed in some kind of mind-boggling way. I'll leave that to the public's discretion.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0057par0484	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. In favor of the proposal, Aytuğ Ater, Mersin MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0059par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group in favour of the motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems facing academics and educators in Turkey. I salute the lawmakers who defend academic freedoms, who use education not for their own political interests, but for their country's interests, who are aware that eating bread alone, not just for the sake of eating, but for the sake of fasting. Dear friends, what is this motion called? Let's eliminate the restrictive elements of the pressure, threat and freedom of expression that academics and educators face in Turkey. Shouldn't we? It says, "Let's stop the deportations, which have been carried out under the rule of law, without any grounds and without trial." Shouldn't we stop it? Let us return all academics and public workers who have been expelled without law. For God's sake, shouldn't we? However, only a fascist understanding would say no, but only those who want the dictatorship would say no. I'd like to hope that you won't say no to this motion. Dear friends, it is education and foreign policy that the AKP has failed the most and directly hit our nation. The AKP mindset, which transformed the educational system into a sabbatical during its 15 years of power, has now reached out to universities with its OHL applications. Our universities have faced more violence, pressure practices, and layoffs than they've seen in times of impact. In addition, many who feared the evil of the AKP (AKP) demanded their retirement. What purpose could the AKP have here? He only has one goal: to take over the universities. Well, why would the AKP want to take over the universities when they've taken over the country so much? The reason for this is very simple, and the answer is in the June 7th election. Studies show that only 26 per cent of university graduates prefer the AKP, so universities do not raise people according to the mentality of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the AKP's President. Well, what do you have to do? You have to destroy the higher education system that does not serve the AKP mentality. So, where do you start? From the faculty, of course. But does the AKP have such experience? Of course he does, and he's very experienced because the AKP started out in elementary schools and upper secondary schools. How many high school graduates prefer AKP? It's only 33 percent. Starting here, the AKP destroyed the national education system in primary schools and upper secondary schools, and started here with teachers, followed by the 4+4+4 system. He's using his experience here to destroy free universities now. Purpose? They don't vote for them; high school graduates, college graduates vote lower than the Turkish average. ▪ Who grows them? We need to destroy these schools and these teachers, these faculty members. Here is the mentality. The AKP government is trying to destroy social democrats, patriotic teachers, academics illegally. I use the word "destruction" in particular. More than 135 thousand public employees have been discharged since July 15th, more than 135 thousand. We all want to punish the people who are terrorists who are with ▪ but you have punished innocent people. We who are punished, we are not afraid to suffer, friends, we are resistance. You'll destroy us and we'll come back a thousand times. But our nation is paying more for them than we are. You're trying to destroy us. You're hurting people. How? Look, our children are falling behind the world. According to PISA results, listen well, in 72 countries, we've fallen to 49 percent in mathematics, we've fallen to 50 degrees in reading, reading with our native language, and we've fallen to 52 percent in 72 countries in science. Let's look at our young people, our universities, who are falling behind the world because of you. How? Look, we have 183 universities right now, and there are only five universities in the world that are in the top 500, and two of them are special. Of the first 1,000 universities in the world, we only have 10 universities, only 10 universities. Your policies have brought us to this point. Let's see who's among the best in the world. Twenty-three percent of the best universities are from the United States, nine percent from China, 7.6% from England. Our universities can only get 1.2 percent in the field rankings because of you. I'm asking you, do our brains work less than other people's brains? Never, we're not just well-managed, you just can't manage well. It's possible to rule us better, it's possible to rule the country better.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0060par0500	Hodja, how many did he enter before us in the first 500?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0059par0501	Mr. Vice President of the Group asks: "What was it like before us?" I said to you, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, "We have fallen." Before you, we were not at the level we desired, but with your power we went a few steps further. If you'd like, you can find the long PISA results, and these numbers I've given you are your numbers, the government's numbers, not my numbers. You're running it worse, and we're going backwards. Your political ambitions don't just shoot us, the professors, the teachers; they shoot our children, our young people, our country, we're trying to tell you that. These kids are all ours. Yeah, they don't have political opinions. Their mothers may be AKP people, maybe MHP people, maybe HDP people, maybe CHP people, but instead of free university students who think, who don't ask questions, don't investigate, you're just trying to strengthen your political power. For God's sake, do you know what you're doing? Please be aware of that. Highly valued professors, educators, who have dedicated their lives to fulfilling a good future for their students, are going down to the street just to seek their rights, and they are forced to fight the violence of the police. Yeah, these are your teachers, too. Oh, aren't we ashamed? Our teachers are going out on the street, eating gas, eating nightsticks, that's a shame, guys. College campuses that are supposed to be home to free science are full of robes crushed under police feet. Yeah, aren't you ashamed of that picture? In colleges, professors' robes are crushed by police boots. Aren't we gonna be ashamed of this, guys, for God's sake? In every part of our country, problems are growing like an avalanche. The universities that should be the answer to these problems have reached the point of locking their doors. Colleges are quiet, it's no use to you. The universities are terrified, and I'm telling you, it's not going to work for AKP. Freedom is needed for the country to move forward. That's the number I just gave you in the industry, that's the economy, we're going backwards. Yes, a country that goes back is of no use to the AKP. So you must free Turkey, but on the contrary, you're trying to control it in a worse way, not a fascist dictatorship, you're increasing the intensity of the pressure every day. The AKP needs universities to address economic problems that have become the main problem of power, but universities are overwhelmed by police violence. Look, students are using disproportionate intelligence against you at graduation, disproportionate intelligence. Look, what they're saying is, we didn't tell you not to use peppers, so use them as sauce again. So don't spray us with pepper spray. So we're not gonna be embarrassed about this, guys? Look, you've expelled 4,811 academics and suspended 2,221 academics with seven different Turkish Cypriots released since July 15th. In the 1960 coup, 147 people were discharged, 120 academics were expelled in the 1980 coup, and now you have exported more than 20 times as many people as all times of the coup. So you've done worse than the coups of fascist dictators, you've made the country worse, you should be ashamed of it. Colleges...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0061par0507	Complete, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0059par0508	To universities, I love those who have not read. You have filled up the rulers who say, "It is a crime of suicide, and you have filled the faculty who are eager to legitimize it. " These tell us that you did the actual coup, not Turkey -- I'm talking about the coup on July 20th -- to universities, to academys. So, I ask you, are free science-loving academics afraid of these pressures? No, he's not. They meet in cafes, meet everywhere, and say, "Don't touch my teacher." They say, "Don't touch my teacher." Look at what you've done to Turkey, shame on you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0062par0510	They understand him, Master Fetullah.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0059par0511	You were afraid of the solidarity that had been created by Nuriya Güln and Semih Özakça, who wanted their job back and resisted for days on Yüksel Street, and you put them in prison. You thought you were going to bury them. No, no, you're wrong, you're wrong, and we're gonna have to take it out on you. So fear not, but fear not. Lo! those who follow us, We will surely take account of it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0513	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0062par0514	Teacher, don't touch my teacher. They'll understand, please fix it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0515	Against the proposal...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0064par0516	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0517	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0064par0518	In his speech, Mr. Horseman said that we are worse than fascist dictatorship, that we are against universities, because we can't get votes from colleges, that's how it's seen by votes, that we run the country badly. This context, this frame that I'm talking about, according to 69...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0519	So it's not a tease to say you didn't get a vote from the university, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0064par0520	It's worse than fascist dictatorship.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0521	Yes, because of your first sentence, I give you my word.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0064par0522	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0063par0523	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0065par0525	Like, how many philosophers are there in college right now? How many philosophers are there in high school?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0066par0526	There was only one left, and they made him a congressman. There was a sane Naci Bostancı, and they made him a congressman, so they evacuated the university.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0067par0529	Mr. President, dear friends, it's good to be consistent when you're setting up a critical logic. AK PARTY has been in power for 15 years, and we haven't sat there ourselves. The basis of the democratic theory is that the people eliminate the evil ruler, bring the good ruler to power. You make choices about how the public should think, you talk about them, but as a result, the public makes the decision, and all the people bring the good rulers to power. The EC PARTY has always come to power because it rules the country well, and as long as it continues on that line, it will certainly continue to come to power, and you will certainly continue to criticize. THE AK PARTY claims to have received fewer votes than the highly educated are a fantastic claim. That's how you read the polls, that's how you read them, but within a political party with 50 per cent votes, high educations are more numerically higher than parties with lower polls. Besides, it's not just a matter of reading, it's about democracy's power. Perhaps it would be wrong if we started to say an empirical fantasy here, a reference that might have meaning: the ideas about the future of those who have read it and the future of those who have not read it or read less should be different in quality and canteens. This is an extremely elitist, extremely wrong look, and it is incompatible with democracy; it contains a hidden fantasy. What's important is... wherever you look, Mr. Horseman's logic here contradicts all logic, democracy, and the reality of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0068par0533	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0069par0534	I'd like a word for 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0068par0535	Here, Mr. Special, I'll turn on your microphone, and I'll give you a minute according to item 60.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0069par0538	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci, you know, how he did it, how he did it, how he didn't read it, how the Republican People's Party felt about it, it's unthinkable, but I'll tell you what he did today. We've been talking about the problems of celiac patients, and over the years, Congress, for example, has set up a commission with an example that we rarely meet his wife. The goal of the commission is to listen to the problems of the celiac patients, to share their problems that are waiting to be resolved, and to cure trouble. After yesterday's election, the Commission left at four o'clock, following the call of your witness; elects president, elects vice president, elects spokesman. The Justice and Development Party again received four of the four representatives of the Commission's Presidential Court, with a majority vote. They did it on impact, they did it all over the place, but now that it's so human... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...not even partnering with lawmakers who want to contribute, so you read it... we see what you're doing and we refer it to the public.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0070par0544	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0071par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0070par0546	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0071par0547	Mr. President, in my speech, the members of the group, those who have not read and those who have not studied, have made a very strong accusation that I say that the quality of votes is different from those who are educated and those who are not educated.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0072par0548	I said, he's a believer. The logic he's already made makes it clear.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0070par0549	Excuse me, just a second, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0071par0550	Sir, he's created a perception, saying he's hinting, sir, that's a very dangerous perception.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0070par0551	Mr. Botanci said something I couldn't hear.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0073par0552	Mr. President, the conversation he made here already includes him as a hint. As the AK insults PARTI, while trying to humiliate you, they read to you, but they don't vote. He says, of course, it reflects an elitist look.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0071par0553	No, sir, that's not...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0070par0554	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0071par0558	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you are an academic. I wish you would respond to my criticism in my ten-minute speech, but you did, as a common man would say here, sir, we got a lot of votes, we're in power, we do what we want. That's shallow rhetoric, one. Two: Of course, because you know it's shallow, you've implied that I, in a way that doesn't suit you that I, as if I had said that the votes of the readers and those who had not read them were different, that the quality was different. It's a shame, it's a shame for my father, it's a shame for my mother. I am the son of Master Shahap the Fixer. My father is an elementary school graduate, my mother is an elementary school graduate, and their vote is just as valuable as your vote, Mr. Deputy President of the Group. So please be careful what you say. But you're quite right to say that because the President is as frightened as you are. He says: "Sir, political power is one thing, and social and cultural power is another. " Against all your violence, you confess to the President, and you confess to the people that you can't digest, and here you are. And while you're making this confession, I'm afraid you're unfair to our people by turning around and underestimating our people in a way that I didn't tell you. What I'm asking is that you're a group of vice presidents. You'll leave, and you'll answer for me here for ten minutes. If there's one wrong with them, let's talk. If you say no, there is no violence in this country; no, everyone in this country says what they want. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0074par0565	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0075par0567	The previous speech made here by Mr. Horseman is certainly a pejorative argument in the context that those who are illiterate or less educated have shown interest in a party such as the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0076par0568	He does the same demagogue every time. They ride the Mercedes, they ride the Audi, and then they call the people. His ties cost 500 lira, his shoes are like a station wagon. They're publicists, we're elitists! This isn't right! Well, they're walking around with eight guards.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0075par0569	You'll come here first, you'll talk like this, and then you'll try to create another legend called my father, my mother, is an elementary school graduate. I'm sorry!
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0077par0570	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci, thank you. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0078par0571	Mr. President, just for the record. Mr. Group Vice President isn't telling the truth. He knows he's going into a vortex. That's not what I'm saying. I stand behind him like a lion, as he wrote down what I said.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0077par0572	It's in the transcripts, thank you. Against the proposal, Selim Dursun, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Dursun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0079par0578	Mr. President, these are the ones riding the Mercedes, these are the ones riding the Audi, these are the ones driving the most luxurious cars, these are the ones with nine bodyguards; they're publicists, we're elitists! That's not gonna happen! They all have protection, ten of them.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0077par0579	Congressmans, sir, please...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0079par0580	They're riding the Audi, they're riding the Mercedes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0077par0581	Please, sir, I've invited him to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Dursun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0080par0583	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Why the Veteran Assembly? Sir, your information is that on July 15th, we were subjected to a low coup attempt by the terrorist organization. This July 15 coup attempt was a traitorous attack by members of a terrorist organization that meant our state, our nation's survival, their future. Now, sir, on this 15th of July, the state gave a reflex with its nation that all together, with its politicians, with all its political parties, with its citizens, with its lesson to the coupgers that night, a note that may be an example to the history of the world. Dear Regents, on that day we were killed in 249, and we had gas in 2,194. The rights, laws, and blood of these martyrs will not remain on the ground, not our veterans, not our nation, not our state. After that, we've given our government a state-of-the-art authority, sir, our House has given its authority. As a result of state-of-the-art authority, the duties of members of a terrorist organization subject to certain business and operations, who have engaged in terrorism, aiding and abetting, etc., and so on have been terminated by law enforcement.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0081par0586	How did you find these? Have you detected it? You haven't done any investigations.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0080par0587	Sir, of course, his way of identifying is in the law and in things. So if you have any objections, then there will be objections to the rights of the law. Besides, there are samples. There are a lot of people who have come back under a decree of law.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0081par0588	You haven't even opened up the judicial path yet, you just set up the commission.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0080par0589	How's that, sir? Isn't there anyone back in law enforcement with a decree? They've been objecting and...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0081par0590	The ones you suspended...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0080par0591	The path of objection is not closed. The path of objection was opened before the feast of sacrifice that we passed.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0082par0592	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Dursun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0080par0593	So, of course, these are your claims, which you've already stated in your group proposal, there are irregularities, there are errors... and if there are, there are ways of protesting it. When you look at the numbers given, you're already telling the people who have returned to the duties, and you're saying that the teachers have returned. Oh, there may have been some shortcomings. But the state suffered, the nation suffered. Are there people in trouble, maybe brothers who can't look for their problems differently in front of the law, friends, people, professors, civil servants? Let them do what they have to do. It's not late, it's not justice that's late. You can say it's justice, but there's always coming back. There are examples of our own relatives. Each of us, I think, lives at this point in our daily lives. We've all seen the state of this structure. We also found it very difficult to understand how the terrorist organization can be so brainy, so educated, so obvious, so unsanitary to the authorities, even to the staff, to the state, to think so unhealthyly about its people. You know, with this State of Emergency authority, there are various applications for the laws of the law. What I'm saying is, if there's a flaw in what we're about to say, and if there's a mistake, if there's a mistake, at the point where they're going to fix it, they're going to have to do it with the power that they're taking from the law, which they're taking from the administration law. Sir, I respectfully salute our High Council, saying that we will vote against your group proposal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0083par0598	Thank you, Mr. Dursun. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0084par0602	We want roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit01spe0083par0603	There's got to be a roll call. I'm going to identify the MPs who requested the roll call: Mr. Special, Mr. Doğan Türkmen, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Akkuş Ilgezdi, Mr. Bircan, Mr. Beselker, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Inönuoğlu, Mr. Çayuk, Mr. Arslan, Mr. President, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Baykal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0083par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 13/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 1/7/2016, Denizli MP Kazim was given 711 places to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to investigate the problems in agriculture by his friends. It has been suggested that the provision of Lu Parliamentary Research shall be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, before other pending motions, and read in the presentations on Tuesday (13/6/2017) in the same date as their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Denizli MP Kazim Arslan will speak. Mr. lion? No. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0085par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the CHP Group's research motion. I salute the entire General Assembly. I, in particular, would like to point out the situation of the educator Semih Özakça and academic Nuriye Gülmen, who are on the 97th day of the hunger strike today, before I begin discussing the research proposal. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0086par0030	Congressmans, there's a hum in the General Assembly Hall. The preacher is on the stand, please, sir, let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0085par0031	Speaking against our party's research proposal today, the ruling party orator has signed a major oversight, saying that everyone who was expelled is involved in the July 15 coup attempt. I counted some of the names, and the fact that the academics didn't have weapons on July 15th, by going one step further, didn't mean they wouldn't have weapons in their hands in the coming period. I've looked at the life of Hatibin before he became a member of parliament, and it's sad that he's an academic himself. Think about it, an academic who can be expressed in thousands, exported, victims of the system and political power. They can get weapons in their hands. They sign a scandalous sentence, such as the scandal. Now, let's say that Semih Özakça and Nuriya Gannon, especially today, are in prison because the ruling party is the voice of people who have been victimised by the KHK (fascism). These educators and academic youths are in Sincan Prison today for disguising themselves in the domestic and international community as to how the power entered into abuse in the KHK. If not, everyone who's a little bit concerned knows that Semih Özakça and Nuriya Gülmen are not coupgers. These, these young academics and educators did not strike, they did not attempt a coup, they did not shoot anyone, they did not carry a gun with them. They didn't win their jobs back as a product of any kind of staffing, but with their hard work alone, they were educated under difficult circumstances and became a teacher and an academic by the sweat of their foreheads, provided by child support provided by their mothers, fathers, in a very scarce situation. We're looking at an example of the political government's statements, which, like everyone's own followers, condemn these academics and make the whole community feel guilty. As soon as -- we don't even want -- we demand that these educators and academics who have begun their hunger strike be removed from the grounds that led them to return to their jobs and start a hunger strike. Look, one day tomorrow, about the hunger strike that these young people have launched to get back to their jobs, where the days and clocks are now important, God forbid, the whole Parliament will be responsible for a negative news that may come, the whole community will be under it. We don't want to see a result that we can't explain to society and the international community. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man These friends have spent their entire lives fighting the coupgers and the parallel state structure in their background. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, especially when we remove the files from the courts and from the court reports on the arrest of our co-Chairs and MPs, we observe that the ruling party's illness is slowly increasing because there is nothing in all of their files except what they say and what they say they do when they do politics, and what they do is political activities. We asked them, they're uncomfortable, we'll tell them again. Think about it. The people who were tried today in Kayseri have not had any rhetoric or political activities in Kayseri, but they have not been in Kayseri. The party has been turned into a criminal complaint due to the negligence of the Kayseri Security Directorate due to the bombing of our municipal building because its owners, chief prosecutors, chief prosecutors and judges have experienced that they will be promoted only if they carry unfairly, unlawfully, water to the political government's accounts or if they do not. Hence, even crows now laugh that the current judiciary is neutral and independent. This judgment, which political power has politicized up to its neck, has reduced the trust of society to less than 30 per cent. The results of all biased, neutral public research have dropped from four, five, six years ago to less than 30 per cent today when the trust in the judiciary was over 70 per cent. As politicians, we have no way of looking at this judgment, which has been pushed to this point in our public conscience, objectively and independently. Dear MPs, about an hour ago, olive groves in Article 2 of Bag Number 485, which was extradited to the Science, Industry, Technology Commission, withdrew. The political power is nothing more than a qualm of opposition that has been established in society and has been compromised by the consensus of different parties. We don't believe that political power has changed its mind about nature being sacrificed especially to profit and capital. The government still has not given up on the political line that serves nature's plunder, the collapse of ecosystems through the construction industry, building factories everywhere. However, we believe that voter pressure, social pressure, has taken such a step back. Another issue, regarding the bag law, is that olive groves are not only a problem; we say that many substances related to meres, coastal use, and especially OSBs and universities are very problematic, and that we will continue our opposition to the existing bag of legislation. The other issue, especially the valued lawmakers, is that we have to express that the AKP's decision to make an investment, no matter how it is done. We know very well that some historical and cultural and natural sites in the 15-year period have been brought to AKP's destination in the UNESCO Cultural Heritage List. We know very well that what is called public benefit is now perceived as the benefit of the people, that what is called public benefit is the sacrifice of natural places, ecosystems, ecological balance, or historical, cultural assets that are being prepared to be sequestered to capital. As Homer moved from here to rest in the shade of an olive tree, he stated in his dream that I belong to everyone, and I belong to no one or no one. I was here before you came, and I'll be here after you leave. I say that an olive tree, especially the cry of Homer's dream, has been revealed as the demand of olive growers, who today have made demands for a social compromise. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0087par0043	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Against the proposal, Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We have taken a pledge against the CHP group proposal, but we have taken a solemn oath against it. It's impossible to be against such a suggestion. And as a farmer, there's no way that I'm against it, and I want to say that I'm in your favor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, the lack of agricultural products in Turkey, the decline, the damage to the economy, the fact that we have to import from outside, all because the Agriculture Ministry's plan and programme are incomplete. We've said over and over again that the air of Turkey, its soil, its plantable areas, has land, air and water that can provide both the need for corn and the need for raw oil, and the need for oil. But, with such a plan and lack of practice, we have, unfortunately, been a country of wheat, corn from time to time, and cotton from time to time. While Turkey has the potential to self-sustain and export its own agricultural products, unfortunately, we are among the importers. Now, look, Turkey needs about 22 to 23 million tons of wheat, which we are able to produce very easily. Turkey's needs can be met with products from wheat crops and wheat crops, especially in areas of the inner Anatolian region, which can't be planted, which can't be irrigated. But, what did you do? You've reduced the incentive in wheat to three cents, three cents, three cents, three cents, three cents for the weight of wheat! In the barren areas of the Çukurova region, wheat used to be planted, and there is no wheat to be harvested there today. In Thrace, wheat was sown in barren areas, and there was no wheat planted there. Thus, Turkey began to develop a wheat shortage. So we are unfortunately able to import wheat from the outside. See, the Department of Agriculture and the government need to take precautions as soon as possible. The solution is to increase the premium support in wheat to a minimum of five cents, and the fertilizer is to reduce the burden of the farmer in the diesel input. Now, Mr. Prime Minister said we're going to meet 50 percent of the farmer's diesel. He probably said that over a year ago. So far, no steps have been taken to meet 50 percent of the farmer's diesel.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0089par0053	They won't even give me 10 percent.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0090par0054	18 percent...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0055	Anyway, I mean, we're just waiting for him to go into action as soon as possible, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. I mean, I'm a farmer, and as a result, it's in the farmer's best interest to get the mazo as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0090par0056	Mr. Secretary, as we explain the national economic policy...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0057	But wait a minute, Mr. Elitaş, so on the one hand, $20 million in yachts, $25 million in jeans, the government gives $1.7 lira for diesel, and the farmer burns it for $4.5. I mean, is this the answer to God, I'm calling on your conscience. (CHP cheers) To your conscience, if you agree to this, I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0090par0058	They're not going to the jeans, they're going to transport.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0059	No, sir, no, no.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0090par0060	They're going to move goods.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0061	I mean, there's no such thing. How do they take all of their pockets and use the cheapest kind of diesel? They do the math, and the farmer, unfortunately, continues to use diesel at $4.5. On the one hand, there are farmers who produce, who try to feed the people of this country, who even produce added value, and on the other hand there are rich people who go around with millions of dollars worth of yachts and kotras. They use diesel for $1,700,000, while the farmer uses diesel for $4.5 million. See, that's what I'm trying to emphasize. This needs to be fixed right away, this needs to be fixed, this needs to be done in favor of the farmer. Now, I talked about the price of wheat fifteen days ago, and I said, "The price of wheat is good now. If TMO doesn't step in, the price of wheat will start to drop. You can see that there are reports here. Now the price of wheat continues to decline day by day. As soon as the TMO comes in, I take the wheat from this figure at the price of Purge. The merchant must quickly rescue the farmer from his hand. It started at $1.20. The price of wheat, do you know how much it costs now? Ninety-six cents, 97 cents in the market, so there's a drop in the price of wheat with an old number of about 100 liras. I mean, is that the answer to God's favor? Why do we leave the farmer in the arms of the merchant, and why do we let the farmer take the merchant's initiative? So, when we asked TMO to step in, to buy, that's what we said, but you didn't listen, so it went in your ear again, and it came out of your ear. So the price of wheat continues to drop. God help the farmer. The merchant, he'll buy it, he'll store it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0091par0064	They went and rented land in Sudan, in Sudan, in Sudan.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0065	Look, two months later, after the wheat harvest in Turkey is finished, the price of wheat is $1,200,000 at an old price. Who's gonna win? Now that the farmer can't win, the money makers, the stockholders, the traders, will have won.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0091par0066	Congressman, they went and rented land in Sudan.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0088par0067	Again, look, just for the record, the price of Egypt is now 90 cents on the dollar, which is 900 liras, $920 on the old money. Look, if the office doesn't take precautions without entering the harvest period, if the government doesn't take precautions, the price of corn will be reduced to the prices of last year's harvest. I told you that, I told you about the wheat. I wish I wasn't right. I'm also saying Egypt, please let the government take precautions on this, so please let TMO kick in and start buying corn and set the price. If they don't set that price, tomorrow the merchant will pull down on his own. Again, cotton... Turkey imports $2 billion worth of cotton, my dear friends. I say, every time, Mr. Secretary says I'm right, but unfortunately, there's been no arrangement until today. Now, the bonus support in cotton was 80 cents, a positive development, not a bad development, a positive development, but at least a dollar. I said, "Come, let's give our farmer $350 million instead of giving away our $2 billion money, save him $2 billion and let the Turkish farmer provide all of Turkey's cotton needs." So Turkey needs 3.5 million tons of cotton, and if we gave $350 million to the farmer, we would be saving this country from $2 billion in imports. Unfortunately, no measure has been taken about it so far. Turkey is still importing cotton. Turkey, in its position as a country exporting cotton in past years, is still importing cotton. My dear friends, we need to fix this as soon as possible. If we don't fix this, we'll turn the farmer into an institution that's losing money from a profitable production company, which will reduce the farmer's production. That's the main theme of this motion. Today we became an imported country because it reduced the farmer's production. So we can't raise a citrus or we can't raise an apple? While we have the climate and the soil that can grow the world's most beautiful fruits and grow the world's most beautiful vegetables, we are unfortunately in the position of an imported country. For him, the Ministry of Agriculture and the government need to make a significant reduction in the price of fertilizer and improve in the favor of the farmer in order to protect the farmer who immediately produced it. Look, drop the VAT. We said, you did it, you did it right, but the fall of the VAT in the fertilizer didn't come into the farmer's pocket, dear friends. Look, go ask the farmer. Sadly, the removal of the VAT in the fertilizer did not reflect on the farmer's pocket. Here's a formula that'll reflect it in the farmer's pocket. You need to do some work that supports that. In that sense, it is our duty to protect the people who produce it, the farmers who feed our people, who make it worth joining our country. He says we all have to do our best in that sense. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0092par0073	Thank you, Mr Varli. In favor of the proposal, Congressman Kazim lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0093par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I really think there is a need for a study to be done to investigate the problems in agriculture, to take the necessary measures and to remove the country's problems in agriculture. That's why we've submitted this motion. My dear friends, agriculture is the hardest thing in life; it's a really open business. There are many businesses that are open, you do everything in them, you have to protect them, but there's no such protection in agriculture, I'm afraid. The climate, the changing climate, the recent climate, especially the changing climate, and the agricultural population are in a very difficult position. Unfortunately, it stays in the field because of the abundance of crops, because of the hail, because of extreme droughts and extreme rains. For him, agriculture actually has three important problems: one is the problems it faces in terms of heavy costs. Two, the market problem is that because the three climates are so variable, we have to explore the conditions where agriculture, farmers, producers are in a very difficult position. My dear friends, climate change has really reached incredible heights with disasters. Therefore, it would be an incredible benefit for the climate change, especially for the farmers to take measures that can guarantee the crop of agriculture and at least some of the damage it has suffered. Because if we can't provide that support, if we can't identify them with the benefits of both insurance and the government, and support our producer, the excitement of our farmer's production in the next term will surely be lost, giving up bread and production. The main thing is, at the start of the farmer's most heavy costs, there's diesel that affects costs. The price of the diesel is worth $5 today; it's worth over $4.5, which is incredibly challenging to our farmer, our producer. Can you imagine, in 2002, the price of masoth was 90 cents, and now it's up to $4.5, my precious friends, who have increased five times as much. The price of wheat was 40 cents, and I remember very well; today the price of wheat is between 90 cents and 100 cents. So from 40 cents on the dollar to 90 cents on the dollar, that's two times the price of the masoth is five times the price of my dear friends. It's impossible for farmers to produce and make money against the price of diesel in the face of such heavy price hikes. For him, our farmer is increasingly struggling, drowning in debt, unable to pay his debts, trying to save the day with loans, and from time to time, my dear friends resist not to sow them. To get our farmer out of this spot, we definitely have to remove the taxes on the masoth and give it to him. Our Republican People's Party, you know, had a proposal, there was a price in the election declaration, which we had to save from this heavy cost burden, my dear friends, by giving it to our tax-free diesel producer, our farmer. My dear friends, and our farmer, the agricultural sector, has a market problem. You know, we've seen in the past that our farmer, our producer, has actually produced and produced under a price guarantee, with the use of the base price, with the buy-ins of the troops, and a lot of products being bought by the government, not by the merchants, and when he sells them, he makes money. But under today's circumstances, we certainly can't see it. Today's power is unfortunately not implementing a base price. In particular, it doesn't take more supportive measures, such as fertilizer that affects the farmer's costs, such as bait, medicine, seeds, and so on, and in these areas, there are huge burdens on the farmer. My dear friends, we can't ignore them now. If we don't support his market, if we don't get him to a place where he can really run his market, sell his property, if we don't run it, if we don't hand over our trader, our farmer, our producer, we'll never find the farmer who's going to work in the agriculture area in the future, my dear friends. So we have to insist on it. My dear friends, look, we're textile countries. We get a lot of our cotton from the outside. In 2002, we produced 60 percent of our cotton ourselves, and we took 40 percent of it from the outside. Today, when we arrive, we can only produce 40 percent of our cotton at this time, 60 percent of it from the outside, my dear friends. Can you imagine, we're neglecting a product that goes from land to consumption. As we grow this, we don't fully support cotton production without providing a measure that allows other products to be planted in these agricultural fields, and we can't allow the agricultural manufacturer to produce cotton as much as we need to. Now, the same with the wheat. Because the bottom price in wheat is not well applied, because it is not supported, we see that from time to time Turkey imports wheat from the outside, we see it imports barley, we see it imports corn, we import cotton all the time. My dear friends, we can't develop the agricultural sector in a structure like this, we can't make the agricultural sector anymore, we can't make the agricultural sector compete with the world. My dear friends, we have grapes now, especially in Denizli, we have cotton producers, we have tobacco manufacturers. Believe me, they're all manufacturers in the hands of the merchant. Today the grapes aren't even sold at the price of three years ago, they're waiting in storage. My dear friends, other than that, we have a large number of nuts growing in our country, very importantly; we can't evaluate it, we can't fully improve the industry of it. Now, beyond that, we have tea, and we can't improve it, and we can't get to the point where we can actually grow it and sell it to the world. We have to make good use of them. We have to work on the production and sale of these products, especially in cotton, like wheat, like nuts, with a lot of attention on products like tea, as well as these problems in the field of agriculture, with costs being taken down, and with the price support that we're going to give to the world, we're going to have to work on making more and more of these products. As a country of agriculture, look, my dear friends, we've purchased 107 billion Turkish liras in ten years. If we give half of this foreign currency to our farmer, support him, believe me, believe me, we don't become an importing farming country, we become an exporting country, my dear friends. (CHEERING) We have to do this, my dear friends. My dear friends, we also have to improve the agricultural industry. And I think it would be a great help to make more income and to create more income and to develop our industry in this field, not just in the field, but also in the market, where these products are processed, and they're made available, and they're being marketed in this way. I also think it's very important to develop olivery and to develop olive oil industry. Since we are among the number of countries in the world, I say we must make sure that we pay attention, and as a country of agriculture, we must save our future in a good way. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0094par0096	Thank you, Mr. lion. Metin Akgün, Tekirdağ MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTI Group against the Republican People's Party's motion to open parliamentary research in order to determine the problems in agriculture and to develop comprehensive solution proposals. I salute our high council and our beloved nation. Congressmans, my dear fellow lawmakers on the stand, in a motion by the Republican People's Party on agriculture -- in particular, the Republican People's Party -- that we haven't caused any development in agriculture in 15 years, that we haven't been with the farm-related farmer, and my dear friends from the podium, during the EC PARTI administrations, continue to express that agriculture has not been supported in fifteen years. Some of my friends -- because I'm from Tekirdağ -- say that there is no wheat in Thrace. My dear friends, first let's go back to the 1970s. I was born a farmer's child, but I was in industry in the 1980s. In the 1970s, in the 1977s -- when my dear friends today were asked in the coffee square -- how many acres of land did you have? My dear friends, today in the agriculture industry... we used a lot of harvesters and reapers in our time. When you look at the harvesters of that day, at eleven, twelve o'clock at night, when you come home, you're covered in dust and dirt and rust, but when you look at the harvester industry, the tractor industry that's grown in fifteen years today, our precious farmer who's used the best products of economic technology all over the world, he's actually pleased with the way he is and thanks us all the time. My dear friend may have said the area wrong, but we are the fourth in Turkey, Tekirdağ Province, to produce wheat. Turkey is the world's wheat crop, and agriculture is the first. For him, we live in the same country, but the information seems a little dirty. My dear friends, when we look at the agricultural sector today, when we go to our villages, when we reach the squares, we look at the tractors that the agricultural sector is using, and we're happy because our government, since we've been in government, gives 50 percent of the equipment of all those who work with agriculture. For him, I suppose, this dirty information is spoken of from our stand. My dear friends, only 4 million acres of wheat planted in Tekirdağ. 900,000 acres of this are planted in Hajrabolu, 800,000 acres in Malkara, 650,000 acres in Sulejmanpaşa, 250,000 acres in Chorus, 130,000 acres in Marmara Eregısi, and 250,000 acres in Ergene. My dear friends, we also rank as Thracian in Turkey in the oil seed plant. So, we need to review this information. Agriculture is an important sector for both national exports and its contributions to employment and development. The development and strengthening of this sector is essential and essential for providing food security for the people of our country today and in the future. When the EC PARTY came to power, the agricultural sector was writhing. The farmer was on the verge of bankruptcy, unable to pay off his debt; he was in a foreclosure clamp, and his tractor was impounded.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0096par0110	And now it is, and now, nothing's changed.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0111	We supported the agricultural sector in every way for fifteen years. In the past 15 years, agriculture has received the attention and support that it has never received in the history of the Republic during the time of our AK PARTI governments.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0097par0112	The farmer's crying blood, blood.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0113	IN THE time of our EC PARTY governments, agriculture was considered more an economic sector based on strategic and competitiveness than socialism.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0098par0114	You go to big businesses; go to the farmer, the farmer is miserable.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0115	I have a thousand times more information than you speak of, so listen to it, my dear friend.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0098par0117	Ruined, miserable, miserable.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0118	We've moved from day-to-day to strategic planning. During the EC PARTY administrations, we became Europe's greatest force in agriculture. We've increased agricultural support sevenfold.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0099par0119	Mr. Akgun, what country are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0120	I'm talking about the country of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0099par0121	We've never seen anything like it in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0122	You, then, don't live in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0099par0123	We've never seen anything like it.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0124	You don't know anything about wheat.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0099par0126	Yeah, people starving, farmers dying, dying. Jesus Christ! Let me tell you something: the people in Malatya, they sell their homes, they have debts, thanks to you. It's a shame there's a farmer left.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0100par0128	Mr. Akgun, you address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0129	My dear friend probably doesn't know much about things because he's not a farmer.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0130	You must be talking about Tekirdağ near Bulgaria.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0095par0131	On the basis of agricultural support, efficiency and quality...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0132	Don't talk about Bulgaria, tell about Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0102par0133	Congressmans, please, sir, please.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0134	Sir, but he's misleading the public, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0135	I speak from the stand, I have no fighting spirit.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0136	Me, too, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0137	Then sit the fuck down. Shut up, sit down.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0139	Open teasing...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0140	Support rose from $1.8 billion in 2002 to 12.8 billion in 2017.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0141	Oh, look, look, I swear it's not true. Yeah, these farmers are calling us.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0143	I'm a farmer, and I'm a good farmer.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0144	Where does Mr. Akgun speak? They say it's about Bulgaria.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0145	In the first five months, we paid about 63 per cent of 2017's support, 8 billion euros.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0101par0146	Mr. Akgun, what kind of tractor is it, an Audi or something?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0147	As of the end of 2017, in the last 15 years, we will pay a total of 103 billion dollars. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We care about animalism in private. We've increased animal support 36 times. We take measures to make it easier for the manufacturer to meet the need for financing, protect our land, and continue to protect it. We've moved on to the business-based consulting system. We've assigned an agricultural engineer or vet who's responsible for every agricultural operation.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0104par0151	How many acres do you own?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0103par0152	Most importantly, we launched the National Agriculture Project in 2016. We can define the main goal of the project with two elements: one is to ensure our food safety; the other is to produce domestic and adequate production. National Agriculture is an important Turkey project that takes over all sectors of the sector and is clearly set for goals and vision. In the plant production part of the project, we moved on to the Basin Agricultural Producing Model. We reduce bureaucracy in agricultural support, increase input support. On the second leg of the National Agriculture Project, we created the Model for Supporting Native Production in Petting. In agricultural support, we reduce bureaucracy and provide input support. 50 percent of the price of mazot will be supported. We said, "You got that wrong too." At the end of 2017. We said, Mr. Prime Minister explained it. See you all at the end of 2017. I'm saying we've promised 50 percent of the gas support, and we'll replace it with an AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, in the course of our AK PARTI governments, we raised the illegal domestic product of the agricultural sector from 36.9 billion TL to 158 billion TL in fifteen years. Our next goal is: As we move forward to 2023, the sustainable growth of agricultural non-advised domestic product reaches 150 billion dollars, agricultural exports exceed 40 billion dollars, combines fragmented land and completes the collection of 14 million hectares; Turkey is our primary goal, which has watered down an entire 8.5 million hectares of waterable land. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation again as I put an end to my words.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0105par0160	Thank you, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0106par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0105par0162	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0106par0163	Dear President, between 1991 and 2002, 714,000 hectares of land were watered between 2003 and today, between 2014 and 2014, so there were over 60,000 hectares of watered-down power.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0105par0164	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, it's been filed. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0107par0168	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0105par0169	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Yalçinkaya, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Doğan Türkmen, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köşe, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Division, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Purchu, Mr. Adıylül, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/1189) no. I'd like to ask that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0108par0189	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, today, on May 31, 2016, I will announce my views on a proposal to the Parliament and ask for support from all groups. Dear friends, this offer is a political proposition. If we accept this law today under the roof of this House, we will have given the right message. We will send the message that we respect the disabled, that we will provide free lives for the disabled, that everyone, especially the disabled, can participate in life as equal individuals in society. Dear lawmakers, we can call the general name of our proposed law "Responsive Dogs" There are nearly 10 million disabled people in Turkey. According to TÜİK data, 12.5 per cent of our population is disabled, so one out of 8 people are disabled. So what we're going to talk about here, and what we're going to vote for, it concerns all of us. Dear MPs, guide dogs, the eyes of the blind, the ears of the deaf, the feet of those who can't walk. So guide dogs are the steps of the blind and the deaf. Guide dogs are the freedom of blind people. Guide dogs are the safety of the disabled. Guide dogs are the hands of disabled people, arms, ears, eyes, language. Thousands of disabled people in the world are able to live without being dependent on anyone, to travel freely, to the mall, to the street. He can go to school, get on public transportation, live freely. Guides that help disabled people to act independently by accompanying them in every environment. A wheelchair is what a guide dog is to a blind person. Guide dogs go through very long and intense training and become professional assistants. Those trained dogs never bite, attack or bark. In many countries around the world, guide dogs accompany visually impaired people in social areas such as public transportation, mall, restaurant, cinema. In many countries such as South Africa, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, Austria, Romania, Greece, these practices have lasted for many years. You can see that a lot in European countries. Today, we need to give these rights to our own disabled, our own visually impaired. Dear friends, we ask four of our groups here today to vote positively, on behalf of them, disabled people, on behalf of blind people. We expect you to contribute by voting for the freedom of the visually impaired. Dear friends, there is a very important association in Turkey that is founded for this purpose, the Guide Dogs Association, which I am a member of. They pioneered in doing very valuable work. At the beginning of her studies, there is the blind lawyer Nurdeniz, and Maggie Moore, the precious wife of the United Kingdom ambassador, supports it. I'd like to congratulate these two people from here, from the House. Dear friends, if you personally ask me what I have to do with these guide dogs as Veli Agha, I've had a blind counselor since 2011. My visually impaired advisor, Mr. Ali Ilhan, has received a guide from the Guide Dogs Association this year. From here, if he's here, Mr. Salim Custah, the head of the House, I'd like to make a statement to him as well. We've been trying to get Ali Ilhan (Ali) and his dog to enter the House for a week, and unfortunately, it's not allowed. Dear friends, look, this is so important that it will open the blind to all kinds of freedom. I'd like to congratulate Mrs. Nurdeniz and Maggie, who have supported us in this matter. Look, one of their dogs is called Kara, and one is called Star (Star), which is now in the press. By offering this law, we ask you to support the visually impaired in Turkey to overcome their problems. I'd like to call out to four groups from here again: my advisor is visually impaired, but there are thousands of visually impaired people in Turkey. The number of guide dogs now, unfortunately, I regret to say, is five in Turkey. I expect you to vote yes to this law so that this number can be increased and the blind can roam freely everywhere. Let's not get in the way, let's be guides. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0109par0204	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The stray dogs can enter the House, Mr. Agha, can't the guide dogs?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0108par0206	Guide dogs, unfortunately, are not allowed, Mr. President. Let's page the chiefs from here.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0109par0207	Okay. Murat Amir, Ankara MP as a deputy on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0110par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. And as an eye doctor who's spent 25 years on eye disease, I want all party groups to support this law on increasing and diversifying the number of guide dogs. Indeed, this is a political matter, a serious matter, and it is a matter our Parliament must resolve. Dear friends, in addition to this, I'd like to bring a tragedy that's been happening in Sincan Prison for the past ninety-eight days back on the agenda of the House. Two training workers, Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça, started a hunger strike for fighting for labour, for fighting for honor, for being expelled from their unfair, unlawful professions. They have been put in front of the prosecutor over and over and over and over, and no evidence has been found for them, but after this action developed, after they were seen to have had an echo in both Turkey and the world, these people were arrested and responded to this action and the verdicts in this court, and they were asked to be taken out of the eyes of the public, Turkey, and the world. The health of these individuals is now extremely critical. They're on the 98th day of the hunger strike. As Congress, we have to call this problem "stop." What are we waiting for to intervene in the hunger strike of day 98? Look, as a physician, we're gonna have to send ambulances there pretty soon. Their lives are already taking permanent risks. Therefore, I invite the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and all officials to act responsibly in the first place. In fact, we have the opportunity to find a solution to this problem - a human, conscientious, and legal problem, which is available to us by the Penal Code. Article 16 of Article 116 and Article 116 say: "If there is a life-threatening threat to the prisoner, if he does not allow his life-threatening imprisonment to continue, the arrest of this person can be removed and terminated through judicial control." Look, I'm saying the opposite: instead of arresting him for hunger strike, it is not appropriate to arrest him for hunger strike. But what's happening here is that people don't see it. It's not my claim, it's in the indictment, we should arrest them because there might be an incident similar to the trip. Of course, there are some very lucky people in Turkey that the law doesn't work like that. I'm a law school graduate, a lot of law enforcement, a lot of law enforcement, a lot of study, a lot of benching, but right now, we're dealing with a whole new law field, which is grooms' law. Look, when it comes to grooms, when it comes to influential people, when it comes to people with dollars, when it comes to people with benefits, none of these arrests are valid for them. In fact, do you know what the indictment says? And this report says that the report, which has been cited as support for the termination of the arrest on the charge, was taken from a private hospital years ago, and says: "It is not appropriate for this person to be arrested because he can't starve for a long time and if he is hungry for hours, in his vital condition, there will be irreparable consequences for his life." Can you look at Garabét, see? Look, this is something to be ashamed of. A son-in-law, on the grounds that he can't starve for hours, is immediately removed from prison with a report from a private hospital, while the detention of people who have come to his 98th day known as a hunger strike is being carried out in this country. Dear friends, we invite the responsible to act responsibly. Look, there's nothing to be taken lightly by talking like that. This problem must be resolved. I invite everyone, in the first place, to the High Council. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0220	Thank you, Mr. Emir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Gürer, do you have a request for a statement?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0112par0223	According to 60...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0224	About what, Mr. Gürer?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0112par0225	It's about the House Journal, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0226	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0112par0229	Mr. President, despite the National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23, 2017, the picture of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was not included. This time, on the day of May 19, 2017, when the country's struggle for salvation began, the picture of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was not included. Didn't they realize these days? But I did see that Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror had a full-size picture. I don't approve of this as a congressman. I don't think this Turkish Grand National Assembly is the monthly bulletin of Mr. Ismail Kahraman. These days, I demand that the picture of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk be included. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0232	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has issued a bulletin due to April 23rd and has not included a picture of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I do not find it true.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0113par0237	He refuses to even mention the name of Ataturk.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0238	According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports, with the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission in the 1st place, on the purpose of the Development of Industry and Supporting Productions, and on the basis of some Law and Law Decisions. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held in the vote of the motion given by Manisa MP Free Special and his friends to continue the talks on the whole of Law Charter 485, which was considered to be the main law according to Article 91. I now submit to your votes the motion to continue negotiations on the entire bill: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, there will be a 20-minute question-answer procedure on the entire bill. I'm starting the interrogation process. Mr. Erkan Aydın... no. Mr. Responsor... no. Mr. Kazim lion... no. I'm reading a list of names of lawmakers who entered the system yesterday and registered. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0114par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, where a good, cheap baret costs $16, we lose thousands of workers due to business accidents. An investment in occupational health and safety returns at $2.2. In order to reduce losses in business accidents, we raised a lot of college graduates as occupational safety specialists, and we passed a law. We're going to reduce business accidents to minimum by breaking this law. However, the AKP now wants to postpone our own legislation to 2020 by blocking it. Why are we delaying this law that will directly affect the lives of 5 million employees? We warn the government: Please withdraw this law, so that everyone can feel the weight of the state in business, and if the law is passed, it cannot be postponed.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0111par0256	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0115par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my question is about Article 18 of this bill. My question is, do you intend to withdraw this clause? Because this clause is a privilege for lawmakers, Mr. Secretary. If the lawmakers return to the university, they will receive additional tuition and return capital. It will also open the way for the second salary for retired lawmakers. So if the poor guy goes back to the public, he'll either get his pension or his own salary, and if the congressman comes back, he'll get two paychecks. This arrangement opens the way. You've brought this substance before, the Aladağ fire broke out, and now you've brought this substance, our martyrs, our 13 martyrs, before it came to the ground. Mr. Secretary, don't touch this material, it's become a cursed substance. Let it remain as it is, and do not be unfair. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0116par0261	Mr. Oz... no. Mr. Durmaz... no. Mr. Bektasoglu... Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0117par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the manufacturing industry in the last five years, how many businesses have been closed, how many businesses have been opened; how many workers have lost their jobs, how many workers have been employed? How many investors have been unemployed in organized industrial areas in the last five years? Why was it necessary for Turkish Sugar Factorys to be taken from outside the 28 factories of Asş, to cook, distribute, wash dishes, and serve? How many people are laid off this way? What's their average working time? Why was this practice needed that left workers unemployed? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0118par0268	Mr. Rootsal... no. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0119par0270	Minister, the Wikipedia, considered the world's largest Internet library, has been blocked since April 29th. Obstruction of access to information, one of the most basic human rights, also undermines Turkey's international public reputation and reputation. The access barrier is also a blow to freedom of thought and expression. What's the reason for shutting down the site with the world's largest network of information? What good reason could there be for shutting down a virtual encyclopedia whose sole purpose is to share encyclopaedia with the world? Is Wikipedia a website based entirely on violence and hate or supporting terrorism, which has been brought into existence a barrier to all its content? As if it's not enough that we've fallen into a cluster of democratic leagues with a questionable referendum that has changed the regime with a questionable outcome in the State of Emergency, it's not acceptable to the entire Internet encyclopedia, which is accepted by the world. The access barrier brought to Wikipedia must be removed without delay.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0118par0271	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0120par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, an 11-year-old girl was found dead in the district of Karediz. Given the recent period, there has been a significant increase in child abuse, rape, and violence. There's a big reaction in the county. Clearly, some people who pose a threat to humanity are strengthened by media talks, punishments that are not imposed on these crimes, or reduced punishments. Do you, as a government, consider increasing punishments, or do you intend to take a deterrent action against these crimes that have hurt your public conscience?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0118par0274	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0121par0275	I'm asking the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology: 1) It has been decided that the TRT accession share in the production reform bill we are meeting will not be taken from industrial businesses, which are registered only in the industrial record. With the removal of the TRT participation share on electricity used in all production fields, production will be increased and supported. Therefore, would you reconsider the removal of the TRT turnout from all production areas? 2) Do you intend to continue an effective study on the development of olive oil industry, producing more and increasing exports? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0122par0279	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0123par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I asked you about three people who took the highest KOSGEB loan in Düzce, under the Right to Information Act, and you didn't answer. I went to the information board, and he decided on my behalf, and you didn't give me any more information. Now, here, I'm going to ask you the same question again: there's a claim that the highest KOSGEB loan holder in Düzce County is the mayor of the AK PARTY, as well as a member of the City Council. Is that true? Why are you avoiding this information? So a congressman has to file an appeal petition all the way up to the information board to get information? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0124par0284	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0125par0285	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a question about Malatya. The Malatian manufacturers must find a solution to debts that have been delayed by interest for five years. Everyone knows the manufacturers don't have the power to pay these debts. The Agricultural Bank must be pardoned once for any debt interest in agricultural loan co-ops and electricity distribution companies. We believe that the split of this money in equal installments without interest and the decision to make will relieve Malatya's economy. Do you plan to postpone debts related to Malatya, or all agriculture, or to erase interest?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0124par0287	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0126par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, although the 2nd article on olive fields has been drawn today, construction is currently rising in the area between Nizip and the highway in Nizipp district of Gaziantep, and there are at least a hundred and fifty years of olive trees in the vicinity of this construction site. Are you planning on doing a procedure on these? Another question, again, Mr. Secretary, why is this bag of laws really being made into a soup law? For example, how many different commissions are involved in this bag of legislation? Did you get all these commissions? Why are we bringing in the law like this? Each time we don't bring the law into the bag. You say, you bring it again, when will you give it up? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0127par0292	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0128par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we are the 3rd in the world in business accidents and labor deaths, and we are the European 1st in Europe. Yet you delay the most important decisions regarding occupational health and safety in this bill to 2020. Now, if you don't object to that, if the friends here raise their hands and agree, won't you feel guilty about every worker who dies after that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0129par0297	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0130par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. In many parts of our country, the wheat harvest has begun, but there is no price. There is an institution called the Office of the Earth's Crops, whose job is to be the farmer's black-day friend. Even though the task of this institution is to organize so-called wheat markets, grain markets, why is there still no price, no purchase policy? He also shot many of our villages in Edirne, especially the Thracian region. The authorities of TARSIM still haven't visited our territory. We'd like these visits to be carried out as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0131par0301	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0132par0302	Mr. Minister, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım said there is no subject to the price on the government's agenda. Government Speaker Numan Surviv has also made a statement, saying that he did not come to the Council of Ministers to make an offer on military service. These two words are inconsistencies. It is not on the agenda. It has not come to the Council of Ministers. The lack of the same expressions of their speech causes different assessments in public. Bedelli is also expected because the past AKP governments are implementing a subject. It's true that it's not right to talk about the price when terror is taking life almost every day, but it's the AKP government that creates and creates this expectation. The subject needs an explanation. There are thousands of people who have failed to serve for different reasons. The problem must be made clear. What is it the government clearly says about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0131par0304	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0133par0305	Minister, there is a privileged clause in the 18th article of this bill, as my other congressman friend has just expressed. Regarding this clause, although he had previously been interviewed and left this Parliament, he withdrew at the request of Mr. President the next day. We have repeatedly demanded that this 18th article be withdrawn because it gives the academics the opportunity to pay a double salary, which they call "the ball" in public. Are you planning to withdraw this substance? Have you received an opinion on this clause from the SEC and Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0131par0307	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'm gonna follow up on my notes. The first question was Mr. Gaytancıoğlu's question, as to why the subject of business accidents, occupational safety expertise was postponed until 2020. There are some problems here from practice, we're going to get through them, so we need time, we're going to postpone. The next question was Mr. Pitcher's question. Are you planning to withdraw the 18th article? It's the will of the House, the House can appreciate it. Mr. Gürer has a question. How many people work in the manufacturing industry, the number of businesses opening up and the number of sugar factories are involved in this question. I'll answer that in writing, Mr. Gürer. Another question is for Mr. Major. The question of Mr. Division is about blocking access to Wikipedia. Our Minister of Transport has made a statement about this, and I think that's enough. Another question is about Izmir Payer. That's not relevant. Again, Mr. Kazim, Mr.Arslan has a question, he has two questions, one of which is related to his TRT share. That question actually came up in the Commission, where I gave the same answer. We'll discuss these matters with Mr. Finance Minister and bring them up. The second question is about the oil industry. Yes, we're going to work on it, we're going to start a study group within our Ministry and we're going to work on it. Mr. Tanal has a question. Of course, that's not relevant, but Mr. Tanal, I'm straight, I'll answer that. There is no loan from KOSGEB. KGF could have used it, and everyone from the KGF has a credit card, so it's free. So it doesn't have to be an AK PARTY or any other party. Anyone who wants to borrow from the KGF has no loan from KOSGEB, if they provide the conditions. Mr. Agha, there's a question about Malatya. We've already made arrangements for farmer's debts, Mr. Agha. I think we're doing this, nothing new. There's a question for Mr. Toğrul. It's about Nizip. Mr. Toğrul, I hear from you that there is a study of olive trees in Nizip. Let's contact Nizip. Let's find out. Again, Mr. Toğrul. Mr. Toğrul has another question about the bag of laws. Now, look, there are circumstances of need. If you need something, there's no harm in a package of different laws, if you need it. The important thing is whether or not the law has been discussed enough in the commissions, in the Parliament, is whether or not it has been discussed. The fact that a law is the basic law or a bag of laws doesn't make any difference to the content. Mr. Horseman's question... I think I've just explained it. Mr. Gaytancıoğlu has a question about the price of wheat. This is not relevant; we can ask our Minister of Agriculture and learn from the Minister of Agriculture. Another question was about paying military service. Now, there is no contradiction in the statements made by our Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Numan Bey. That really didn't come up on the Council of Ministers agenda. Mr. Surviv has announced that he has not been on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Irkil has a question about the 18th article again. I think I answered that question. Mr. President, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've got time. It's not over yet. Mr. Pitcher's in the system. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0134par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, these are vital areas for Turkey. Yes, in Turkey, some mera have lost its virtues, and we are aware of that, but do you realize that with this arrangement, you're putting all the dramas at risk? When you form a board and leave the decisions on the mera to the governor's office, you'll actually have the governor and the locals facing each other, and you'll create the air as if the government was clean and the governors were doing the wrong thing. Does that make you feel better? Do you really think you're doing the right thing about ending livestock? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0135par0334	Thank you. Congressmans, when you say we have time, everyone starts entering the system, but we don't have time to make promises to everyone. I can promise one more person a question. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0136par0337	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, last weekend there was an action in Malatya. The Malatya-Sivas road is closed to traffic, by the people living in Wishland. In fact, there's a request to build a crossroads in the Wishland, on the way to Sivas, which unfortunately isn't being made. Accidents happen there every year, about 8 to 10 people die every year. I had an accident there, too, because there was no intersection. Unfortunately, the demands of the people there are not considered, there must be an intersection. If there is no intersection, there is no intersection in Turkey. Does the government have a study on this? I wanted to ask you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0137par0340	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Secretary, come in, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, there are two questions, one about the mera. Look, this debate has been made in the Commission, and it's always been done. There's a board about the Mera, and we didn't set up this board; it's a board that was founded before us, I think, in 1998. There are eight members here, who are the governor's president and are directly involved in the mera. Now, look, I mean, Turkey's changing, Turkey's growing. The needs of Turkey, which has changed and grew, are changing. I've always said that we've been against the opening of productive farmland, the opening of mera into industrial areas.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0138par0345	Then protect them, Mr. Secretary. Let's protect them together. Now, look, we're protecting the parades. So the question you're asking is, are you aware that you're endangering the medians? You have a question. Now, look, why should we slaughter the mera? Why should we ruin the ceremony, do evil? That's what I'm saying. We know that food, food industry and agriculture are strategic areas, and that's what we need. Now, if a board isn't going to decide that, who is? Someone has to make a decision. Keep it a mera, no one decides. There's a mechanism that's been set up and this mechanism works. Now, if there are any wrong decisions made by these operating mechanisms, let's discuss them, but the system... Sir, there's no turning back from that decision. The system is wrong. Then bring your proposal, tell us, and we'll make another system. Sure, pull this stuff out, let's discuss it, sir. Now, there was a question of Mr. Agababa. About Malatya. Mr. Agha, if you'll describe the location, I'll pass it on to the Minister of Transport, and we'll have that intersection made.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0139par0355	Sivas Dilek, Minister. SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGI SQUARE On the way to Malatya-Sivas, it is known to be called the Dilek junction. Okay, I'll talk to our minister, we'll get this intersection done, and we'll brief you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0140par0359	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that they take part...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0141par0364	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0140par0365	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Erkan Aydın, Mr. Kazım Arslan, Mr. Ceyhun Irgil, Mr. Gaytancioğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Ali Şimm, Mr. Divisioner, Mr. Didem Engin, Mr. Sakaak, Mr. Effendi, Mr. Emir, Mr. Attür, Mr. Yalçinkaya. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I'd like to submit to your votes that the bill be taken into section: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 18th article. I'll meet your demands on chapter one. First, I'll make a promise to the political party groups who are demanding a commitment. The first speaker for the groups is Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Hatay MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0142par0380	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Law Bill 485. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the removal of the law on Week Holiday 394; the introduction of the pre-regulation system for the maintenance of market surveillance and audit personnel on audit duties under Article 6245; the introduction of the registration system for non-industrial personnel; the introduction of the industry Register Act; the introduction of industry technology and software-producing enterprises; the introduction of information technology and software-building businesses; and the introduction of the prerequisition system to inform you of its obligations before the start of production operations; the establishments are not implemented in order that there be no industrial registration certificate; the creation of the registration system; the creation of the regional sectors, the development of the sectors, and the development of the sectors, and the provision of the sectors, and the exceptions of our property, and the construction of our property and the duty, and the exceptions of the construction of the new sectors. Mr. President, the bill that we're discussing has been deflected from the aim of developing industry and promoting production with a number of unrelated substances added later. The bill has changed in its current form -- which is 102, which is down to 101, I'm guessing -- has predicted a change in 28 different laws and 2 different laws. A number of non-industrial substances, which have nothing to do with industrial production reform, will later produce irreparable consequences. There appears to be no impact analysis in the bill. Nor is it possible to accept the absence of the study of impact analysis that such an important ministry has prepared and should set an example for other ministries. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the change of materials that we state above, the bill of the law, rather than measures and incentives to increase production, is being reevaluated in the Law of Organised Industry, which was introduced during the 57th Government period -- in accordance with the conditions of the day. Despite the fact that the bill has been cited as the completion of the transition to domestic, green and innovative production, we do not see a regulation in the bill in accordance with these grounds, despite the development of the investment environment, reduction of bureaucracy, the focus of incentives and supports on critical and pioneer technologies. It is impossible to achieve high growth goals with a production structure that is not strong in innovation and technology infrastructure and is not based on a jump in the manufacturing industry. On the other hand, the way to compete is through high-velocity production and efficiency-based business processes. In this regard, industry policies are required to increase efficiency in each sector. In 14 years, RD, innovation and technology have not been achieved, but has been regressed, high-velocity value, and RD has not been transferred to intensive production. In fact, the share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has declined according to 2002. Many problems today, especially the scale problems, are a heavy burden on the SME's shoulders. Competitive disadvantages stem from scale problems, problems faced in access to financing, lack of qualified labor and relatively rising costs are at the top of them. Basically, our industrialist -- its basic expectation -- expects that cheap financing and production areas be created, technological infrastructure established, and given to them by extension. I'm afraid we can't see any work being done on this bill. The most painful part of this bill was the 2nd article, but we've learned that the 2nd article was drawn in the Commission. Precious lawmakers, the quotas brought into production as a result of integration with the European Union and customs union agreements, have unfortunately been unable to meet our country's needs in many agricultural products, such as cotton, tobacco, sugar beets, wheat, rice, chickpeas, lentils, with policies that view the importance of industrialisation as the destruction of agricultural areas. As you well know, we are now importing meat and even hay. In many parts of our lost country in other agricultural products, he has directed our farmer to plant olive trees and to become an oliver. In this framework, our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism supported the olive industry, especially with plant support for new planting areas, our olive tree existence has increased by about 72 per cent in the last decade to 172 million. While 97 per cent of the world's olive production is being carried out in Mediterranean countries, Turkey is among the top five countries. While most European Union countries had solved their problems with olivery, farming, mechanisms, business technologies, branding, and if the second clause in the bill hadn't been transferred to the Commission, there would have been an opening for practices that would have destroyed olive groves instead of focusing on the above issues. Our expectations and our wish have been in the Commission to remove this clause from the bill, and the clause concerning olives has been removed from the commission. With the release of the second item from the bill, I think the part about olivery, which is the direct and indirect livelihood of about 10 million people in our country, has drawn a deep sigh about it. However, we also expect that this matter of olivery will not be brought up again, and that it will not be presented to parliament as a law. If it had not been for a fear of persecution, I would have commanded them to use an olive tree for every prayer, according to Muaz bin Cebel (RA), one of the inspired writers of the Prophet. I think we have to protect the olive tree, which has such a great property. And I would also like to thank the Minister and the members of the Commission, all of our people, and the NGOs who have been working on it. Dear lawmakers, in this bill, there are parts as important as olives, about our shores and our meadows. Due to the difficulty of geographical conditions and lack of proper spaces, a general change was made in Bay Law 6321, and new filling areas were created in our seas and our shores were eliminated. As exceptions -- despite our tenacious positions in the Commission -- this bill has been modified by ruling lawmakers, including only the province of Tripoli, and with their support. Again, I would like to point out that there has been a change in Article 4342 of Mera Law No. 4342, which we disagree with, and that we are also opposed to the moving of industrial regions, technology development areas, regions such as organised industrial areas, and the establishment of industrial facilities in these areas, and even the moving of small industrial sites in the city. It is not accepted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that we become a country that imports its own vows, hay, and flesh from a self-sufficient country. For him, we expect that the issues related to this Law of the Coast and the Law of Mera will be removed from this bill as soon as possible. I think the Mera will be prevented from moving industrial sites in the city and being destroyed on the pretext of opening up shopping malls and development, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0143par0396	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The second speaker for the groups is Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, when we really look at the content of this bag of legislation, there's a lot of things brought together that are not related to each other, that may be related to the 8-10 commission, and we're not sure why they're here in this bag. Now, when you look at the law, it's called the package of industrial reform. Let me tell you, dear friends, what does industrial reform have to do with the academics at the university, the researchers, what material they're going to employ? Mr. Secretary, is there an answer? Secondly, what is Van Centennial University doing changing its name in a package of industrial reform at Acıbadem University, Mr. Secretary? Dear friends, in fact, there are so many things that have been sprinkled into each other, such as the opening of the way back to colleges after they've been relegated in this House. What does this really have to do with industrial reform, Mr. Secretary? This was rejected here, taken at the request of the President. This House will go down in history as a Parliament that favours its own deputy. In fact, we know very well what is to be done. The vision of the neoliberal capitalist capital in Turkey is this: let's give all kinds of opportunities -- no matter what -- for investment, nature can be slaughtered, environment can be slaughtered, ecology can be destroyed. Like -- for example -- yeah, it's taken today, but, dear friends, in fact, our olive groves are still at risk, because we still have the opportunity to declare industrial regions, and if they declare industrial areas, we have no solid evidence that the mera, shores and olive groves will not be destroyed, so olive groves are still under threat. We know one other thing about the AKP, dear friends. He brings it, he meets the opposition here, what's he doing again? I did. He says, but he brings it with a KHK. We're saying it because there's been examples here before. Yesterday, the AKP's members of the group were saying, "We stand by our promise." But, my dear friends, at midnight, around twelve o'clock, didn't the election of the rectories with an additional clause come to this House? So it wasn't drawn by the resistance of three opposition groups? He's out. And then what happened? He came back with a KHK, and no one made a sound. In the same way, once the government must say, here today, clearly, that I must not bring it back. Mr. Secretary, can you say that? If you can't say that, why are you fooling society?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0145par0407	It's brought back when needed.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0408	Here's what you need... You'll probably need it tomorrow, the next day. Dear friends, there's something in this manuscript that says, "We're going to open the way for investment no matter what." Like the right to work, the right to vacation. Can people's vacations be taken? It can be harvested for the industrialist. Industrialist invests in trillions, high-priced friends for the weekend vacation, $800. If we take this off the industrialist, he'll be able to trade entrepreneurs or industrialists. It's never, ever really acceptable, not convincing, not a reason. Flexible and unsecured work -- I just told you -- is embedded in the spirit of the AKP government; they want to employ as many people as possible in a position where they can throw as easily as possible and keep them under constant threat. That's what the 50/d clause is today, and that's where the universities are today, and that's where they're being brought in. Before the Commission, Mr. Secretary, we insisted that if you want to reform an industry, you must consider the size of education, the policy of science in the first place. What's our science policy, dear friends? There's none. Science travels in places. Nine professors were kicked out of college at my last assignment. On what grounds? They were fundamentalists. In Turkey, Mr. Minister, if you want to ask, these nine names will come in order, making the most academic work at the University of Diyarbakir Dicle. I'm asking you in such a bold way. If the Diyarbakır MPs are here, they know those people. On what grounds were they discharged, Mr. Secretary, we really want to understand this. Look, I told you that in the research motion we just gave you. During the previous formation of the Fetullahist congregation, all 17 of our friends, who were taken, were visited by the congregation's gadrine; either their staff was not given or their students were not given, or their projects were not supported, in some way prevented. You're doing the same today, Mr. Secretary. Who really did the coup? What kind of understanding is it if you're meeting the coupgers in the same law?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0146par0412	You were with the coupgers.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0413	Again, today, we've been told that you're taking our MPs into custody, arresting them today with a statement from coup judges, prosecutors and prosecutors. Dear friends, you don't invest in a place where there's no peace of mind. Investment is like an investor pigeon, where he's scared, there's no investment. In Turkey today, investors are not conditioned to invest. Mr. Secretary, if you had your money, if you had your choice, would you invest in Turkey today? Can you invest in a future where you don't know what it is, where the employee doesn't know it's coming, the public official doesn't know it's coming, the businessman doesn't know it's coming? No investments, Mr. Secretary. So, dear friends, we need to be clear that if you want to reform, one, you need to stabilize the country. The investor must see the front, see three months from now, five months from now, a year from now, or do longer-term projections. Is that possible? No. Leave it in Turkey, three months from now, he lives in a situation where he doesn't know what's going to happen tomorrow, a businessman, a public employee.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0147par0416	Stock market's over 100,000, growth's five percent. What are you talking about? Jesus Christ! Look at the numbers! For God's sake...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0417	Now, to the second point, if you want to make an industrial revolution, you have to have a good science policy.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0147par0418	Look at the stock market, the stock market is 100 grand. Five percent growth.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0419	Without science, there's no technology, there's no industry without technology; they're interconnected wheels. Turkey's science is on the ground today, no science policy. So, dear friends, go see what colleges are really like. As a professor, I saw it through and through. I've got a whole close-up of law on my friends who were relieved of duty today. If you have Diyarbakır MPs, they know those people. Dear friends, you fire the professor, you raid his house on the second day, you seize his Internet, you confiscate his apartment, and he's out of work. Now, what's the professor going to do that he can't work here? We're having a brain drain abroad. Do you have any recent research on how many of our scientists today have had to leave the country because of these conditions?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0148par0421	Because of you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0144par0422	It's very important. If you don't get it back on track, you can't do any industrial reform at all. Now, olive groves, meres... friends, how can we have so many hundred-year-old, thousand-year-old assets? The olive groves, our meadows, are almost threatened by the industry today. But there's a lot of barren land in this country where investment can be made, but the industrialist wants it to be two steps ahead, the industrialist wants it to be on top of first-class farmland, and we don't look at all of it. So, dear friends, if indeed the withdrawal of item 2 today does not make this bag, which is owned by this packaging name, acceptable. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If our ceremonies, our shores, the assurance of this business are not created here, we, the People's Democratic Party, will continue our opposition to this bag, and continue to continue. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0149par0429	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Third speaker for the groups, Didem Engin for the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0150par0433	Mr. President, members of parliament, in 1929, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk instructs that a mansion be built next to a linoleum tree he saw in Yalova. As construction of the mansion rises, some branches of the sycamore tree must be cut off. Ataturk strongly opposes this demand and instructs it to move the mansion instead of cutting the branches. The mansion is placed on rails brought from Istanbul, and it is carefully moved so that the branches will not be cut off. May I point out that the sensitivity is not the cutting of the tree, but the cutting of the branches. This is actually a message from the great Ataturk, to our people to express the importance of green and nature's protection. The year 2017, eighty-eight years later, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey asked in his speech in Parliament if olives are more important for the future of Turkey or the facility to be built. Here's the difference. This expression is a very clear confession of AKP's mind structure. It's a confession of how in fifteen years our olive fields, our green fields, were sacrificed to Ranta. Traditionally produced by Turkish people, chickpeas are a painful confession of wanting to be dependent on exports, such as lentils, beans, sugar beets, cotton, wheat, olives, and olive oil. See how Turkey became an importer during the 15-year period of AKP's rule and how the Turkish peasant, Turkish farmer, was poorened? The year 2002 -- the year the AKP was in power -- is the year the total crop area of Turkey is 6,600,000. The year is 2016, the chickpea planting area has dropped almost half of 3,600,000 kara. The year 2002, the crop field in the beans is 1,800,000. The year is 2016, the planting area is down to 900,000 squares, which is 50/50. The year is 2002, the red lentil planting field is 4,200,000. The year 2016, the planting area fell to 2,300,000 squares, so it's down by half. In short, in AKP's ten - year solo rule, our plantations in the bacliac have dropped by half and our country has become a net importer. The same is true of other traditional agricultural products. Now I ask all the executives of the AKP: Are you really a nationalist? Nationalism doesn't just preach nationalism in such squares, it's true nationalism that protects the rights of the Turkish people, the rights of the Turkish farmer. In our traditional products, you're going to make our people in need of imports, you're going to make the Turkish farmer poor, and then you're going to say, "We're nationalists in the squares." Get out of here. And now you're trying to lure someone into our olive groves and mechases. It is not your concern that olives will benefit our country's economy and health, not the thousands of olive producers that will become poor, not our natural wealth, not the protection of the environment and ecosystem.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0151par0436	Have you ever collected olives?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0150par0437	The olive tree is a sacred tree that has thousands of years of history and is the subject of many legends. In all religions, olives are a symbol of blessing and holy virtues, and olive branches are a symbol of peace. You claim to be an Islamic-sensitive power, but the pursuit of sacred olive groves into someone's interests doesn't bother you at all. So in your world, money and interests come first. You withdrew the olive grove clause at the Commission today. For days, despite our manufacturers, you persisted in spite of our people. And we demand that all of the landlines and mechas be removed from the bill, not re-packaged. The AKP is not only allergic to green, it has problems with our cultural values. Here's the Istanbul sample. Istanbul's historical figure was destroyed during your time. You have done the most irreparable damage to Istanbul, the pearl of the world. You sacrificed Istanbul to Ranta and your interests. When it came to Ottomans, you left no ashes in the barbecue, but now you have left the most precious legacy of Ottomans in the shadow of our historical mosques in the shadow of skyscrapers. You have turned Istanbul into a heap of stone, a concrete city. Now, when the elections are near, tear down buildings that have broken the silhouette of Istanbul. You try to confess by instructing them. Have you not ruled Istanbul for 22 years? Now you've come to your senses? Let's see you tear it down. Our people will never forgive these betrayals of our historical heritage, witnessed by living every day. As Ziya Pasha said, do you think that everyone is blind and the world is a fool? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've sacrificed Ranta on the grounds that we're also opening our Miss Earth shores to tourism. That's your nationalism! That's your conservativeness! That's your Ottomanism!
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0152par0442	Tell me about the albatross Park, in Istanbul.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0150par0443	Now, about the product reform package, which you have adorned with the name of the industry. This bill, supposedly designed to promote industry and support production, is also a clear indication of why the 15 years of AKP's ruling period were lost in industry and technology and in education as well as in the nature of its content. It would want to be a design that today is a reflection of the transformation of industrial and manufacturing technologies in our world, digitalization, and the design to prepare our industry 4.0 revolution, and again the heart would want it to be a reflection of an industrial strategy, which involves the rapid transformation of our manufacturers into high-tech and high-velocity structures. This bill, though, is a bill that doesn't even realize the urgent need for structural reform in our industry, as if it had been designed 40, 50 years ago. See, in Turkey's manufacturing industry, the share of high-tech products is around 3%, and when we take out foreign-owned companies, it's even worse. Our share of high-tech exports in the world is only 11 out of a thousand. That's why our exports have been in place for years, and that's why the AKP's 15-year period of power has been lost in industrialization. The development of a country is one-on-one related to the state of law in that country. If justice has become political in a country, if the quality of being a state of law has disappeared, if the state has become a party state, all talks for development and industrialisation can only go on beating water in the air, as it is now in this bill. Yeah, we're just beating water in the air here because you shut down our coven. You're running our country in a state of emergency, in accordance with the law. By expelling respected scientists from universities, you have destroyed scientific autonomy in universities; you have imprisoned interrogating journalists; you have destroyed our international reputation; you have isolated our country from the world in foreign policy; you have left no friendly countries; you have filled the state staff with your allies; you have created a young army of unemployed in our country without vision.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0153par0447	Why did you stay at 25 percent?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0150par0448	Yes, we beat water in the air because our democracy is sick. Every time you opened your mouth, you said, you said human rights, you came to power by saying "democracy," but you struck the greatest blow to our country's struggle for democratization by restricting our freedoms and rights. If a tree starts to rot from its roots, if the soil doesn't feed that tree, give it water as many branches as you want, you can't make it live, just like AKP power. Whether you gather a convention every day and lecture democracy, try to do body demonstrations with gathering crowds every day, try to sell new dreams to our people every day, tell stories of making your staff younger on the basis of metal fatigue, you will not grow the leaf of AKP because your words and dreams that you sell no longer have the credibility and excitement of our people. As the poet once said, the gray hair never goes dark again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0154par0453	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0155par0457	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the development of industry and the support of production, which is basically the production reform package. I hereby salute your high council. Yes, in the AK PARTY power, we see a very serious breakthrough and change in any area we look at since 2002. So we've all seen that $230 billion of non-national property has gone up to $850 billion, $36 billion of exports, $148 billion -- that's over 150 billion -- on the other hand -- and that's about $11,500 of the GDP. Now we need a change where we are, a paradigm change, so to speak. So we have to make changes that will solve the problems that both the manufacturer and the industrialist have experienced in this sense, together, in fact, with power and opposition. If we can make this happen, we have a chance to take this country, this nation, together. So we're talking about a package that the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology has taken the initiative to create by interviewing all the shareholders. Although the opposition calls it the law, we're actually dealing with a very important change in production, the manufacturer, the industrialist, all the areas involved. So we're talking here about a package of industry, producers, producers, organised industrial areas, trade rooms, industrial rooms, TOBB, MISIAD, NGOs, NGOs -- anyone who can say anything about it -- all of their shareholders' views. In this package, we're actually opposed to a total denial mentality. So if we want to put stone upon stone, instead of talking about changes on the package, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't accept it. So what needs to be done here is in the highest body of national will -- what can we contribute to this law in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, what we need to add from our point of view, I think, but most importantly, it will contribute to our country, our nation. With this law, we make a lot of changes in the Organised Industrial Territories Act, and with these changes, we reduce the financial burdens on the industrialist. When we all meet in the field, when we talk to the industrialist, remove the TRT share on that electricity. Yes, we're going to eliminate the demand with this package. On the other hand, the removal of property taxes from organised industrial areas, the removal of the price of weed, the removal of stamp tax and mortars in the same way, the removal of the permit for the weekend's work, the fact that we've heard more about the industry than we've heard about the people in the field, the people in the field, the people in the industry, the people in the industry, the people in the industry, the demands they've heard a lot about. On the other hand, there are some changes in this package that will take us all to a more advanced point in university and industrial cooperation. Didn't we always say, "Let's get the professors and the university involved in industry," and, yeah, we're throwing out some serious changes that take away the obstacles to raising qualified employees in this package. On the other hand, there are changes to domestic production and domestic products, but as your brother representing the IT sector, there is a significant change in the IT sector. Local software will now be considered an industrial product, and all kinds of support will be used in that sense. I thank each and every one of them, especially our Minister of Law, from the NGO to the NGOs, from the Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association to the OSIAD. I wish you all the best, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0156par0467	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0157par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0156par0469	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0157par0470	The Civil Code is not too short for 60...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0156par0471	Here you go. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0157par0474	Mr. President, thank you. Today on the commission, the commission's unanimous decision has just come as a number of additional rows. It's a very satisfying, promising situation. We thank both the groups and the Minister and our esteemed bureaucrats in that sense. This matter of olives has appeared once again to be resolved on a much broader platform and with a complete consensus. But the secretary just told me. There's this bag of laws and stuff that the commission has nothing to do with. These substances are a burden on them, and there's no way they can negotiate. We didn't say anything in 20 minutes of words yesterday, but today's ten-minute statement shows that the Minister is not demanding a word. It's very important that this ruling party group gives information to the Council of Ministers, and it's not right to know a paper that they're going to want and a responsibility that they shouldn't leave, a little bit, you know, in terms of the economy of time, that twenty minutes, that ten minutes of profit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, sir, I'm packing.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0158par0478	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0157par0479	We, Mr. Secretary, consider your communication to be extremely positive. We'd like to hear him on the stand and take advantage of his information on this bill to the House. It's clear that it's not in chapter one, but in the following episodes, a process of legislation that both the power and the minister are not talking about, both the bag of laws and the fundamental law really aren't a form of conduct that the House deserves a little bit. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0158par0481	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Edirne MP. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0159par0488	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the first legislature of the underlying law that I salute the High Council. Yeah, that's a bag of law. Inside the law, it's called production, reform... There are issues that will increase production, and there are issues that prevent production. We thank you for the chapter on olive groves, but when you filmed it, you said we could bring it back. So, what's in it? There are Meras. Look, in the last 50 years, the mera in Turkey have dropped from 41 million hectares to 13 million hectares. If we're going to produce, we need to talk about increasing it. More than half of the 41 million hectares have been reduced. But developed countries protect their merests as well as their own. We passed a law in 1998. We've decided to use this law for its true purpose. There are already areas that have lost the merits of Mera. You can take these off, which is a commission. Why should we pay for these now? Let's use these. Why? Open the front of the industry. Yeah, there's no other area of industry? There are a lot of areas in Turkey, and I'll tell you: 50 million acres are empty. Let's produce around here, set up industrial facilities around here. Now, the speaker before me said the AKP had changed Turkey, mentioned national income figures, said the $3,500 came to $10,000. Once, once, you changed the method of computing. Why don't you say we owe $120 billion in internal and external debt? We're now up to $800 billion in internal and external debt. I mean, we've come here by taking money from other countries, we've increased our income. 45 million people on the edge of poverty, why don't you say that? Yes, the AKP changed Turkey, converted Turkey. There were zero terrors in 2002, see, we give martyrs every day. That's the change, that's the transformation? In 2002, the farmers who made up 30 per cent of Turkey at the time had a debt of $1 billion, or $1 quadrillion that day, and now they owe 80 billion, or 80 quadrillion. There were 8 per cent unemployment in 2002, and we are talking 13 per cent unemployment today. In 2002, there was a surplus of foreign trade in Turkey's agriculture; we were selling agricultural products; we were buying from outside; there was a difference of two or three billion dollars, which was written in our plus house. And we were processing and selling these products as food, and Turkey was a country that made money from agriculture. Look, today we're talking about importing animals. Every day, they import animals, we import animals to Turkey, we import about $5 billion in six years, we import red meat. The point is, Turkey is importing animals again. The meat has increased from 18 liras to 50 liras per pound. Is this the transformation? Where's the transformation in that? And now you're staring at the cheapest bait source. Constitutionally, the peasants own the mera. Let the peasant feed you cheap. I'd like to see that in this package... We've seen some good things. Yeah, well, you're lifting the manufacturer's TRT share, good. You support the local industry in IT, good. But you should have said: we want to increase production. If we're importing, if we paid $5 billion in livestock, let's not give it away. With some of this money, let's protect the mera, bring water to the mera, fertilize the mera, put the thorns in the mera, protect the mera, look like our eyes. Look, I want to give you an example from New Zealand. Do you know how much milk is in New Zealand? Thirty-eight cents and a New Zealander making money. So we have $1.20 a gallon of milk, and our manufacturer gets a dollar and 20 cents a pound. How's that for an account? Now, when there are free feeders, we're talking about production! Come on, let's do this shit, guys. Let's do something nice. It's Ramadan, let's do a good job, let's pull the strings, let's talk about industry. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0160par0499	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Members of parliament, the talks on the first chapter are over for groups and individuals. Now, there's a motion on the first chapter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code, and I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the meeting of the first chapter of the Common Code of Law 485 rows, which has been discussed, be continued according to Article 72 of our Civil Code. Free Special Tahsin Tarhan Mahmut Toğrul The motion is to vote... [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] We want a roll call. There's got to be a roll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kösci, Mr. Doğan Türkmen, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. All, Mr. Budak, Mr. Pekşen, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Coach, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Bircan, Mr. Green. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now we're going to do a QA on chapter one, starting with questions. Names have been deleted due to the need for a meeting. I'm reading it, and I'm giving it to you, so let the interested friends get back into the system: Mr. Mahmut Tanal, Mr. Erkan Aydın, Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer, Mr. Kazim Arslan, Mr. Ceyhun İrgil, Mr. Elif Doğan Türkmen. If Mr. Tanal is here, we'll start with Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0161par0525	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is 1: Between 1991 and 2002, how much land has been watered in 12 years, and how much land has been watered between 2003 and 2014? The question 2: How many kilograms of wheat per person were dropped in 1988, and how many kilograms of wheat per person are dropped in Turkey today? Question 3: How many tons of groceries did we produce in 2002, how many tons did we produce in 2016? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0162par0530	Mr. Erkan Aydın... Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0163par0532	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, by the decision of the Council of Ministers, the energy reserve for solar energy investments between Seslikaya, Emen and Badak villages of Niğde Province, was considered an industrial zone. The verdict was released on November 19, 2015. Investments started in different regions at the same time. Why didn't this investment start in Niğde Province? My second question: when will natural gas be released in the Bor organised industrial area? Does this include support for your ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0164par0536	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0165par0537	I'm asking the Minister, even though it's not relevant to his ministry, I'm asking because it's current: that Denizli Tavas Nikfer has had an incredible hail of disasters in the Plains of Barza, which have completely destroyed the fields of planting and planting, and there's been major damage. In the past few days, Thracia has also experienced a large abundance of affluence. I want the damage done immediately by the full 10 centimeters of the Plain of Tavas Nikfer Barza to be assessed, and the damage done to the neighborhood to be declared a disaster zone, and the farmers' debts delayed. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0164par0539	Mr. Irgil... Mr. Doğan Türkmen...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0166par0541	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP's government pledges a staff to subcontractors before each election. Before the November 1st general election, AKP has pledged to recruit subcontractors in a three-month reform package. The Prime Minister made the same promise on March 22, 2016. Today, June 13, 2017, the subcontractors are expecting a staff. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking the Prime Minister, why don't you give the news of the staff that the subcontractors are waiting for? Why don't you keep your promise to the subcontractors?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0164par0543	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0167par0544	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, one of Turkey's most important exports is nuts. It's 7 million tons of chocolate in the world based on nuts. Turkey's total production is 90 thousand tonnes in chocolate industry, but all of the Black Sea region, from Sakarya to Sarp, is a large nut economy. Do you plan to invest in the chocolate industry based on nuts in this area? Do you have any investment plans? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0168par0547	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0169par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions. How many patents have been provided in Turkey in recent years? My second question is: What are Turkey's universities ranked in the world's academic literature ranking? I see the head of the RDC is there. According to the A, B, C evaluation criteria, can he tell us where we are in the world about Class A, Class B, Class C, Class C issue numbers? My third question: The number of unemployed graduates in our country is increasing day by day. Those who can't get a job after graduating from the university from students who use higher education credits provided by the Ministry of Youth and Sports are unable to pay these loans, so they get a notice. According to this, what is the distribution of the number of people involved in performance surveillance as of 2010, compared to the years?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0170par0552	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0171par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is our number of students in basic sciences right now? My second question: what was the number of professors working in basic sciences before you came to power, what is the change now? How many faculty students can't teach now because they can't? I want answers to these. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0172par0557	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, thank you. Now, some questions are asked numbers, of course the numbers are ready, not present; we will answer the numbers in writing. There's a question for Mr. Gürer, about Niğde Bor. Now, Mr. Gürer, there are areas of energy that exist in Bor. Karapınar. There are several other areas. We made a tender in Karapınar, and it was made, and we waited for its results, and its results came to a positive conclusion. So we have a good example in the future, and we will speed up Niğde Bor. There's a question from Mr. Arslan, the Denizli says it's full of Tavas, it needs to be assessed. I'll discuss this with our Minister in charge of the AFAD. Mr. Turkmen has a question, a staff problem with subcontractors. Our government has done a study on this. On two alternate agendas, the Council of Ministers has been presented, and we will decide on one of them. Mr. Pekşen's question is about the nuts. We're already giving you an incentive, we're giving you agricultural incentives, but we don't have any new investment incentives for chocolates, Mr. Grouchy. So we don't have that on the agenda, let me put it this way. Mr. Gaytancıoğlu has a question about patents, the rankings of universities. Now, that was the issue during the Commission. You'll remember, in parts such as physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, basic sciences, the level of students is over 90 percent. It's getting bigger every year. Other than that, we have student numbers. 1.455 in biology, 721 in physics, 1.676 in chemistry, 3.803 in mathematics; these are the number of students according to the results of the 2016 OSS. Our quotas increased in 2017. The figures in 2017: 1,710 in biology, 926 in physics, 1,906 in chemistry, 4.115 in mathematics. Mr. Secretary, one moment, sir... Congressmans, I know that the hour of the iftar is near, you expect a recess immediately, but I'm sure a lot of our friends are having a hard time listening to Mr. Secretary's statements. Please, I invite you to calm down. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Another question by Mr. Gaytancıoğlu is: As of the number of addresses, Turkey is published in the 18th place in the world. The number of unemployed is increasing. There has been a saying, that there is a problem paying off the loans of YURTKUR. It's about unemployment, you know, we've got an employment campaign, and we're going to feel the consequences are getting better in the coming months. I'll return to Mr. Gürer's question, and the OSBs have a question about the gas problem. This problem will be solved when this current bill is adopted. We'll give you our answers in writing about the other questions. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've got time, we're still asking questions. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0173par0579	Mr. Secretary, we are the European 1st in business killings, the 3rd in the world. The Social Health and Safety Act 6331, under the agreement of social parties, is now being changed for the sixth time. With this change, the obligation to assign occupational safety specialists and workplace physicians to less than 50 people is again postponed. What could be the reason for delaying such a sensitive business security issue until 2020, where there were so many workplace accidents and less than 50 employees during a time of increased occupational illness? Because that's what you know in the workplaces where there's less than 50 people, there's a substantial amount of work killings. Would you care to make a statement about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0172par0581	Mr. Doğan Türkmen...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0174par0582	Thank you, Mr. President. Adana is a city located by the Ministry of Development to become an agricultural city. The Minister's Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Development together and organized work is inevitable. I ask the Minister: Do you have any plans for the development of agriculture-based industry in Adana, if you have any plans?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0172par0584	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0175par0585	Thank you, Mr. President. Is there a study of university-industrial co-operation in the development of technology into technology, technology into products, and they're actually producing products? What do they think about that? We know about the recent criticism of TÜBITAK. Here, growing in prayer, our daughter received her First Step Prize for the Nobel Prize in Physics in Ilayda, but that child was not even accepted in TÜBITAK. WHAT understanding does TUBITAK have now? Is there any study done about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0176par0589	Mr. Yasar Charter...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0177par0590	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister and the government: there is a victim of our citizens who are farming in all Turkey, especially my constituency, including Bilicik, and it's this: the insurance companies are not insured by tractors because of their disputes among themselves. In this direction, the punishment is written and even linked to the tractors used by the Turkish peasant and farmer, particularly the Police and the gendarmes. Do you have an interview with the insurance companies about this? When are you going to put insurance on the tractors that the Turkish peasant and his farmer drive?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0176par0591	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0178par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just asked the Minister about the level of faculty, but now of course, the quotas have been reduced to 11 out of 60 people, so they said 90 percent. I'm changing the question to the Minister: how many students did we have in physics, chemistry, mathematics in 2010, and how many students do we have now? Likewise, again, how has the number of professors in basic sciences changed between 2010 and now? I'll ask you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0179par0595	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I promise the Minister for answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, thank you. The first question was about the postponement of the Employment Health Act. The need for a workplace physician to run occupational health care is very high. We need about 30,000 workplace physicians. At the moment, the number of active workplace physicians is 13.450. Since there are not enough workplace physicians, we pass this law to 2020, and we increase the number of employees from 10 to 50. Hence, we make this arrangement because of the lack of physicians. Mr. Turkmen had a question: do you have a study on the development of agriculture-based industry in Adana? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary. Please complete. We're also trying to establish a food-related OSB in Sarıçam district. There were questions about university-industrial cooperation. When this bill is enforced, hopefully, we'll be able to establish more cooperation between the university and the industry. You know, we've made an arrangement about TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK), it's passed through the Commission, we'll answer that question more easily when it comes to the General Assembly. What was done in the YKK was established by the Permanent University Industrial Co-operation Commission. Public institutions and foreign partners were also included. The current changes are ongoing, with regulations. With this amendment, more university-industrial cooperation will take place. Mr. President, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on the first article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 1 of the Persistence Code to Amendments in Some Laws and Laws, with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions of Industrial Industry, which is currently available in 485 rows. The Law on Week Holiday 394, dated 1 / 2/1/1924, has been passed. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Deniz Depboylu Argin Erdem Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Muharrem Varlı Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Now, I'm going to read these motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the current Law Bill 485 rows be removed from the draft text. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal İrfan Bakır Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin The signatures of the other motion are: Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Behcet Yıldırım Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'll make a promise to those who have motions for the same kind of motions. The first speaker is Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0180par0644	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I read to you exactly what was brought here: The Law on Week Holiday No. 394 has been revoked. This law is a revolutionary law brought in 1924 along with the declaration of the republic. What we really want to do here is not to increase industry and production. What's it called? Sir, we'll give you a permit for the weekend to lift the burden on the industrialist, and it's said to be free of tuition. Well, then, I'll tell Mr. Secretary this. Although our Minister of Health is here, I don't know how much it would concern his field. Now, here, because the end of the week is being paid, we're taking this vacation away. It can then be added: Keep Law 394, the permit for the weekend is exempt from tuition and is exempt from tuition here. If it is referred to as this statement, the Law on this Week's Holiday will remain in effect, dear friends. So if the goal here is to get your weekend license at a price, if we want to make it easier for the industrialist, let's call it an allowance. Let's end this problem. Two: What can happen if you remove this entire Law 394? The employee has the right to a weekly and weekly vacation. Now, here, the right to vacation, the right to rest - written in the 50th article of our Constitution - is his most natural, lawful, like his mother's milk. If we remove the holiday, if we prevent the employee from resting -- because our Minister is a physician, in fact, this has been a chance for me -- the person who hasn't been rested, the person whose right to vacation is mentally disturbed, psychologically disturbed, and that causes illness. What do you call that? It's called depression syndrome. Well, if you lift the holiday, people who don't take vacations will suffer from exhaustion syndrome, sleep disorders, and, as a result, they will suffer from bodily distress. What do we do when we're all on vacation? We provide the needs of our family. In accordance with Article 41 of our Constitution, this holiday is also needed to ensure the integrity of the family, dear friends. If we take these vacations away, we'll cause the family to fall apart, we'll set up the floor for it, which is not the right thing to do. It can be said that, sir, e, the employer... Dear friends, then my employer, my brother, this power has also allowed me to work on Sunday, and I will take Friday days off as I please. So, if he takes Friday off, what's the day of the holiday under the Sharia decree? It's on Fridays. I wonder if the reason you're uncomfortable with this holiday law is because of the fact that everyone's on vacation on Friday, it's a holiday on Friday, so everyone's having a holiday on Friday, so let's do it on Friday.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0181par0652	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0182par0653	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0180par0654	Dear friends, this is completely contrary to the secular law state in Article 2 of the Constitution, to Article 50 of the Constitution, and also to Article 7 of the social and cultural contract. Here's what I'm asking of you: it's very comfortable, just as we've all been consulted together, and if this law of olivery has been withdrawn, we're offering you a recommendation. One: If you really want to lift the burden on the industrialist, the end of the week studies, if you need a license, are free of tuition, licenses are free of tuition. Say, we have reached the goal here, but if this really brings burden to the employer, we remove it because it's a burden to the employer. If you say that our proposal should be accepted. But no friend, we have to deal with the regime, we want to change the regime. These are the stones in front of the regime, we remove these barriers. If you say so...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0182par0655	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0180par0656	...that is contrary to the 7th Article of the Constitution, the 2nd and 50th, international civil and cultural rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0183par0660	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Tanal finished his speech on time, thank you. The time to talk about the motions, Congressmans, is five minutes each, as you know. I won't be applying for an extension that goes beyond that time. I'm giving it to you now. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP who has asked for a second motion in the same manner. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0184par0666	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 1st article of Bag Bill 485. I salute the General Assembly. The essence of the bill is to encourage investments in the effort to revive the economy. ▪ Under the name Tuvvik, it has been shown that allowances are exempt, bureaucratic barriers are eliminated, loan opportunities are expanded. I would like to point out in particular that the AKP has brought in more than 15 years of power legislation, not social justice, social development, not the need of society; the market, capital, trying to create land spaces for several national and international companies. This Parliament calls it incentives on incentives, and every day, legal regulations are brought in to encourage this area, but on the contrary, there seems to be a strange contrast between these incentives and economic recovery in the country. No matter what law or economic incentives you bring, we can't get rid of this bottleneck. You can't fix the economic stability that you've broken after 15 years of your power with only the incentive laws that you can bring back financially. We've said this many times in this House, but we haven't been able to explain it to the AKP governments. Stability isn't just given by the vote you get or by the fact that you're in power on your own. If you get close to 50% of the vote, but you can't achieve a 10 per cent stability in both economic and political terms, you're digitally overstepping the threshold, but politically, economically, socially, you're undermining the dam. The basic problem here is that you cannot reach a solution by making arrangements under the heading of the economy. If you don't fill these incentive laws with concepts such as democracy, justice, peace, and practices, if you can't weave them with actual building blocks, such as legal guarantees, no incentive law will come up with a social and political solution, only a few companies or entrepreneurs will have the opportunity. There seems to be some kind of numerical stability, but there's a government on its own, and it hasn't even come to one man. However, there is no stability in the expansion, diversification, and growth of investment, even in the negative sense of going backwards. Let alone the great investor, ask Ahmet the grocery store on any street in your neighborhood, Mehmet the butcher, why they won't invest in you, they'll give you a very clear and short answer: we can't see our way. We don't know where the country is headed, anything can happen in this country at any moment, so there's a system of uncertainty, chaos, they'll say. When you talk about the coup every day of the power lobby's pens in the press, while the entire country is trying to be ruled by the State of Emergency, you can't develop a solution to this economic strait every day if you get people out of the country -- call it war, or call it violence -- while you're trying to organize an economic area under the law. You'll never get over this uncertain, worrying atmosphere. In this environment of chaos and uncertainty, unfortunately, it will not be possible to create permanent economic initiatives, and it will not be possible to continue. Maybe your finance ministers need to put their eyes on the street, not the palace. If there's no cure now, I suggest you keep an eye on the palace, but keep your ears on the street. These people showed you the real solution on June 7th, but you single-handedly forced power, not taking into account the public's understanding of reconciliation, peace, peace of mind, peace, peace of mind, there is no economic stability with the coalition governments. We need power alone. You said it. Legally or illegitimately, the people have made you in power alone, and they have opened up a loan to you; it is not enough, not with the government alone, but with one man. You said, "There is stability with one man." With the government alone, with one man, there was neither peace nor stability in this country. You've been kicked around, you don't know it. Therefore, it is not possible for us to proceed with these incentive laws before we go through a serious policy change. It's not the stable governments that are supposed to get us out of this jam, it's the conservative peace policies, and I salute the General Assembly, not the search for a palliative solution like this one.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit02spe0185par0679	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, I will submit two motions to your votes, but the motions have reached our Court of Appeals in the form of an open vote. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the client MPs and their presence in the General Assembly. Mr. Special? Here. Mr. Tarhan? Here. Mr. lion? Here. Mr. Agha? Here. Mr. Gürer? Here. Mr. Gaytancioğlu? Here. Mr. Bektasoglu? Here. Mr. Iron? Here. Mr. Doğan Türkmen? Here. Mr. Arik? Here. Mr. Bay? Here. Mr. Engin? Here. Mr. Balbay? Here. Mr. Secretary? Here. Mr. Responsor? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit03spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of the same proposals was not enough for the meeting. I will now repeat the open vote. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes:
tbmm-2017-06-13sit03spe0186par0008	Sir, it's already been rejected.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit03spe0185par0009	Sorry, that was wrong. There are enough meetings, motions rejected. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit04spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, I would like to submit to you the results of the vote on the same motions on Article 1 in the previous session. As a result of the same motions in Article 1 of Law Bill 485: ▪ Number of votes used : 193 [[x]] Fehmi Kübüçü Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu I'm reading the other motion on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 1 of the Persistence Code to Amendments in Some Laws and Laws, with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions of Industrial Industry, which is currently available in 485 rows. The Law on Week Holiday 394, dated 1 / 2/1/1924, has been passed. Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0187par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is, in fact, a positive clause for employers, industrialists. So getting a license from municipalities is an additional cost -- sometimes you don't get a license, there are challenges -- it's been removed from employers, which is good for industry. But I wish there was an arrangement here to prevent workers from becoming victims. We don't have a negative opinion of this substance. However, the 2nd article, the part about the olives, has been taken to the Commission, and I wish the clause concerning the mera had been drawn to the Commission. Anyway, there were two objectors here, one of which had been withdrawn, and the other one would have been much more comfortable, much more beautiful. Of course, it's very positive that the olive-related clause has been drawn to the Commission because the level of olive olive and olive oil we need in Turkey has just been reached. Okay, in this respect, the industry needs to develop, we need to support industry, but it's proportional to exports of industry, like Spain, our Turkey doesn't have a third of the amount, maybe, but it's the country that exports the most oil in the world, and it makes, like, $4 billion of that money, Spain. So Italy is like $2 billion, Portugal -- a very small country -- making like $1 billion. Turkey also needed to maintain this olivery in order to produce olive oil and provide enough use for our people on the domestic market in Turkey as well as exporting it, which means the withdrawal of Article 2 was positive. I wish, as I said, the arrangement for the mera would have been better off if that law had been drawn to the Commission, because we've already been having problems with the number of animals in Turkey, and we're having problems with the number of animals every day. We have to import carcass meat from the outside, from the outside -- excuse me -- we have to import animals, and the price of meat in Turkey is going up every day. So in this month, people can also get an appetite, most of them can't get meat, and they can't take meat home because right now butchers can get about 40 lira a kilogram, and markets can get up to 60 lira a pound. I called a friend of mine the other day, and the coincidence was in Brazil, so I asked him: "What are the prices of meat there? Because there's a lot of grass there, there's a lot of grass, there's this cow called Angus, it's feeding cattle, and the meat weighs 5 lira on our scale. We sell 40 liras in the butcher shop, sir, and they sell up to 60 lira in the market. That's why we need to protect the meadows, to keep up the livestock, to keep up the animalism. Industrial facilities are important, of course, in terms of employment, in terms of increasing exports of the country, but we also need to protect the meadows. Again, this energy reserve... I'm from Ceyhan, Minister, Adana MP. This will be Rotterdam, the region of Ceyhan Energy Development in Adana. It was said that when it was first implemented, it was now not a single nail hit. It's about Ceyhan Energy Scholarship... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why can't it be, Mr. Secretary? INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY LOOKS NOT FREE. Can't it be? No way, yeah. Why? It can't be because of you guys. Because of me! Okay, well, if it can't be because of me, then it can't be. I mean, it's important that the Energy Development Zone there be brought to life as soon as possible for unemployment, for the economy of Adana, for the economy of Turkey, and I wanted to emphasize it, but I didn't expect you to be so sensitive, Mr. Secretary; I didn't understand why you were so sensitive, and I couldn't make any sense of it! You know, Turkey needs the energy fellowships; the employment of the people who will work there will contribute to Turkey's economy, which will benefit Turkey, and I wanted to stress them, but you must have shown a bit of resentment, and I couldn't understand your resentment! Thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Tell him to his group.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0188par0042	Thank you, Mr Varli. Members of parliament, before the motion's vote, a motion for an open vote has been submitted to our Court. So now I'm going to identify the names and presence of the members of lawmakers who have called for an open vote. Free Special? Here. Tahsin Tarhan? Here. Cetin Arik? Here. Erkan Aydın? Here. Peace, Black Sea? Here. Omar Fethi Gürer? Here. Hüseyin Pineak? Here. Ünal Demirtaş? Here. Murat Minister? Here. Serdal Welleroglu? Here. Irfan Copper? Here. Cemal Okan Yüksek? Here. Haydar Akar? Here. Veli Agha? Here. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu? Here. Kazim Arslan? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, the open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards will be delivered to the presidency within two minutes of the scheduled vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the two-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Congressmans, I'm starting the voting process. The technical staff has started the process without saying, so I'll give you an additional minute. [[Recurring voices from the AK PARTY]] It's not over for two minutes, sir. Two minutes didn't end, I'm starting the voting process. When I said that, there was a minute and ten seconds in that image, so it looked like it had been 50 seconds. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Yes, technically, there is no way to add a minute to the open vote, and since it has not been granted less than two minutes in the open vote, I'm rebooting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on Article 1 of Law Bill 485: ▪ Number of votes used: 191 [[x]] Fehmi Kübüçü Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. A certain additional number of articles on the 2th article has been printed and distributed to the General Assembly, and I will inform you about it. Members of parliament, as you know, Article 2 of Law Charter No. 485 in the 103rd Union dated 8 June 2017 was returned to the Commission at the request of the Commission of Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology. The Industrial, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report was published and distributed on 13/6/2017 as the first addition to 485. According to the commission report, Article 2 of the withdrawal of Law Bill 485 is removed from the draft text. Therefore, the first part of the bill will continue with the motion process, as Article 2 is released from the bill. In order not to cause any confusion, the motion process on matter will then be continued through the material numbers in the current number of rankings in the text, which will be identified in the matter numbers during the writing of the law. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to replace it in the form of Customs and Trade Controllers, Customs and Trade Controllers, Customs and Trade Controllers and Co-executors, Product Controllers and Product Controllers, Customs and Trade Investigators. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tacettin Bayır Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın İrfan Bakır Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the release of the declaration to be issued in Article 3 of the current Law Bill 485. Ahmet Yıldırım Ertuğrul Kukçı Erol Dora Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Dair Law Bill in the following way, with the aim of developing industry number 485 and Supporting Productions, to change certain Laws and Laws. The statement of Article 33 (b) of Article No. 6245, dated 3/2/1954, added: "Investigators of Health and Health and Health Investigators (Secrets of Health) to come after the declaration of the Court's Controllers and Economic Controllers, Customs and Trade Investigators and Customs Controllers (TBMM). Mevlüt Karakaya Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0189par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the motion concerning Article 3 of the Law Bill 485. I hereby salute the General Assembly. No doubt our country's biggest problem is unemployment. According to data from the State Statistical Institution in February 2017, the unemployment rate of 15-year-olds and upper age increased by 676,900,000 in the same period last year in February 2017. The unemployment rate has increased by 1.7 points to 12.6 per cent. In the younger population, the 15-24-year-old unemployment rate increased by 4.7 points to 23.3 per cent. Again, according to February 2017, employment rate showed no change compared to the same period of the previous year; the rate is 45.3%. The rate of non-registered employees increased by 0.7 points from the same period of the previous year to 32.8 per cent. Unfortunately, in fighting off the books, the power failed. Dear friends, in only three jobs in the state, unemployment, employment rate and unregistered work are not seen to be promising. The picture will be much worse in terms of young unemployed people, when we think they're going to graduate in the next few years, from numerous foundation universities that end up like mushrooms, from public universities that open every year, from higher education abroad, from private health vocational schools. As of 2012, the urban population rate was 77.3 per cent, while as of 2017, it increased to more than 80 per cent. It is clear that a villager, a villager, or even many city citizens migrate for a job, a bread, a soup. All of this in particular demonstrates the difficulty of having a public job. Another sad picture is that in May consumer prices rose to 11.72 per cent compared to the same month last year. A growing unemployment, hundreds of thousands of young unemployed, non-employable economies on one side, one hand on the other, one hand on the other, a record-breaking waste, a luxurious life. I say God help the poor, the strange guru. Today, when employment is difficult for a camel to get through a ditch, we need to embrace justice more, unfortunately, practices undermine the trust of the state, the hopes of the citizen, the unemployed. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to end my speech by reading a letter from a teacher brother who has received a very high grade from KPS. Of course, I'm not going to name this friend. He says a lot of things, but I'll make it short: I'm married and I have a child. I'm 29 years old, and I've been preparing for KPSS for years. While my child was waiting for attention, crying, I worked my conscience to the bone. I didn't eat, I didn't drink, I didn't walk, I didn't dust, I didn't sleep. So you don't look at yourself in the mirror? Go and get some sleep, please. I got 84 from P10, and in my department I became Turkey's fourth. I also received 84 from P121, and this time I became 24th in Turkey. I took three separate tests, validity, credibility, and achieved a great success. Then on May 2nd, I interviewed Adana; I answered the two questions that came out of the envelope like floods, and I didn't care, I didn't hesitate, I showed that I had a lot to offer, but in return, 53 points were given and I was eliminated. Now, my two-and-a-half-year-old child, crying for attention while studying, wipes away my tears and says, "Don't cry, my dear mother." I don't give a damn about my rights. My child's tears hope you have nightmares. You will work your nights into your day, you will become Turkey's fourth, and then you will be eliminated verbally. Dear friends, what greater right could there be? Of course, let's develop industry, support production, these are good things, there's a partial right to the bill, but what's so much better than that is being fair, to uphold justice, law, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0190par0124	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the release of the "for future" declaration in Article 3 of the current Law Bill 485. Ahmet Yıldırım (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree. Erol Dora wants to talk about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0191par0137	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 3 of the Law on Development of Industry and Producing Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. A technical change in Article 33 of the Harcirah Act is being made with this clause, and it is being arranged for the audit, inspection, inspection or investigation mission sent out of the designated duty centre, as well as the benefit of product inspectors and product inspectors, customs and trade inspectors and assistants to cover their expenses as part of the law. Of course, it is a positive arrangement to provide tuition for product inspectors in their audit processes, and we find the arrangements for improving the working conditions of workers important. When it comes to product inspection, if you'll excuse me, I'll continue my talk on the control of agricultural products in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, throughout human history, food has always been one of the most important issues in the state of strategic products and food security. In the last two centuries, the right to food assurance, which has been defined primarily as the right to consume the food material needed to sustain life, has been established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as in the right to access sufficient food. The rapid increase in the world's population and the obligation to feed people have made agricultural research important, especially over the past 50 years, significant increases in agricultural production have been achieved. However, this new production has brought with it health risks from food. In this context, Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, I would like to highlight a number of points about the use and negative consequences of chemicals known as agricultural medicine, which are also commonly used in our country: In Turkey, agricultural medicines can do significant damage to environmental pollution, to foods, and to foods in the short and middle term, despite the positive effects of protecting the plant, while chemical war, unconscious and uncontrollable. Of course, our citizens face long-term risks in nutritional health, as there is no serious, quality, comprehensive, conscious and deterrent control mechanism in Turkey's domestic market. Precious lawmakers; for example, when surveyed annual reports of the European Union's Fast Alert System for Foods and Feeds, Turkey is among the most unappropriate of agricultural products sent to European countries in the past 12 years. The main causes of this impropriety are chemical contamination and traces of chemicals in food related to plant protection. Dear lawmakers, food safety has become a global issue that threatens public health and has begun to influence international food trade. The globalisation of food supply and improvements in analytical methods have become one of the most important issues for food industry and consumers, the authorities responsible for legislation, the chemical toxins that can be found in food. As a result, the state needs to run its control mechanisms correctly, set up a rapid alarm system, open more labs, analyze them with more samples in their wholesale state and gardens. In terms of drug use, manufacturers need to be compensated for lack of information. In particular, small manufacturers are wrong and are prone to drug overdoses as a result of misdirection by drug dealerships. In addition to the lack of knowledge of the amount of drug use and time, manufacturers have also been known to use old-fashioned cheap drugs. The use of appropriate drugs should be encouraged to prevent manufacturers from resorting to cheap, residue risk high drugs. Once again, I would like to welcome the General Assembly with respect to the further consideration of the measures necessary to make product control processes more qualified and to produce our agricultural products in accordance with developed world standards.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0192par0146	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose changes to Customs and Trade Investigators, Customs and Trade Controllers, Customs Controllers and Customs and Trade Investigators. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and Friends Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Mr. Erkan Aydın is a member of the Bursa MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0193par0159	I have made a pledge to develop industry number 485 and support production of the Bill of Law. I salute your high council. Yes, the Bill of Law on the development of the industry written on it is also related to the 6.2 earthquakes in the Aegean region that we experienced yesterday. We're just looking at these materials, but when that earthquake is a few times larger, we don't point to measures where there's no industry left, no habitats left, and that loss can be compensated for. Let's see: In this earthquake, which was felt not only by Izmir, but by my electoral district, from Burma, even Istanbul, many people were thrown into the streets in panic, but we see that, unfortunately, after the 1999 earthquake, the government still did not take serious steps and did not take precautions. For example, the earthquake that took place in Burma, which resulted in the deaths of thousands of people in 1857, can come every minute today, every second, but let's see what the government has done: let's see what the government has done today: take down many old or risky buildings under the name "Central Transformation" and open them to areas where there is more risk to replace them, where there are more gathering sites, green areas, urban transformations, and more challenges. There are skyscrapers and malls in place of 330 of the 470 concentration sites in Istanbul today. One is Ali Sami Yen. It's seen as a gathering area, but go today, given to a fellow businessman, there's a residence and a mall in place. Like this, the land of the Armenian Foundation of Ortaköy, where there's not enough room for ranking. I also want to say that this power is responsible for the deaths, the losses that can occur when we don't think about them. When you tear down the green areas, destroy the emergency escape sites there, destroy the roads, and, in a panic, go out into the street, where you're going to pick up the bread, where you're going to gather, how you're going to save the children from this panic, and there's no response. For example, after the 1999 earthquake, there were earthquake taxes. In 2011, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek was asked what happened to these coins during your 15-year administration. A total of $46.48 billion for that day. Where did the money go? The Minister replied, "These taxes are going to our health." We have $44 billion in medical expenses. This money goes to the double roads, the railways, the airlines, the education, the health, the farmer. For the earthquake, for the renovation of risky buildings that could occur in the earthquake. He also said: "We also paid the debt to the IMF with this money. " So, basically, the Minister says: "We spent it in the general budget, and the money ran out, and the earthquake ran out. It is God who gives it to us, and we will see what happens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, all of this suggests that during the 15 years of AKP power, the government has taken measures that remain only in the words of these, only on the writing. Sadly, there is not a single person who can show what can be done during an earthquake in Istanbul, where only 20 per cent of Turkey has a population of 15 million people. When we add the other surrounding provinces, 40 percent of the population in Marmara will face what kind of situation in the earthquake, all together, God forbid, we will live to see. But, what's being done about it? There's an institution called AFAD, which is no different than the Kızılay, which has only written rules, what to do during that earthquake, perhaps most of them, even he doesn't know. In short, about the earthquake that we experienced yesterday about these issues, and that we can actually relive every second, and I say that if we want to improve industry, if we want to improve production, not just take some measures on paper, but respect that green areas, those gathering areas, those emergency escape routes, the construction, the Ranta, the side, the side side, the cost would be huge if we lived to learn about it, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0194par0168	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are three motions on the fourth article, I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and offer to change the terms of the declaration of the 485th Amendment in Article 4 of the Law Bill, which is currently in session. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Bayır Akif Ekici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to support the development and production of Industrial Development and Production in the United States, we propose and propose the addition of hardware to the amendment of Article 6948, which is part of Article 1 of Law 4848, which is intended to be replaced by Article 4 of the Law. Kamil Aydın Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of the Sea Depboy Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Saffet Sandzaklı Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the removal and removal of the evidence from the substance text and the continuation of the sentence be corrected in the industrial sectors and in the industry of those who run it. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı Erol Dora Garo Paylan Imam Taşçıer Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Imam Taşcıer, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0195par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the Fourth Amendment to the Development of Industry and Producing Law. In areas that are developing or underdeveloped, there must first be a security and peace of mind to make encouraging arrangements for investment in cities. Without peace and security, capital doesn't invest. Capitals are skittish, they don't take risks, they avoid taking risks. In order to build trust, the Kurdish problem must be resolved permanently, or the security environment must be established on the way to solving it, and steps must be taken. In order to do so, the State of Emergency must first be lifted and create a democratic environment, legal and constitutional regulations, and changes must be made immediately. Politics has been normalized, along with our Co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, our deputies must be released immediately, and our elected mayors must be extradited immediately. If you try to create a democratic climate in this way, it only improves industry, it increases efficiency to support production. Diyarbakır, which is my birthplace and also my constituency, is at the top of the socioeconomic ranking of the republic in the early years of its formation, and today it can only be ranked 67, Minister. Diyarbakır Organised Industry has 300 businesses in total. Six times the number of employees. Think about it, there are about 6,000 people working in Diyarbakir Organised Industry, a population of 1,600,000 people. In the West, there are over 10,000 people working in one factory, one facility. Even if every change is intended for industry investors and incentives to the Kurdistan provinces, it is very difficult for industrialists to invest this way in the region. In addition to steps towards democratisation and the solution to the Kurdish problem, with encouragement, the state should make major investments, establish factories, and the employer or capital should be able to invest with confidence. Members of parliament, before the AKP came to power in 2002, in Diyarbakır, it was $2,200 in illegal national property, and 5,000 in 2016. Between $500. Although this amount may seem to have increased a bit, in Turkey, Diyarbakir was ranked 41, while in 2016 it was ranked 63, while at that time it was ranked 41. This shows how the peace of the country has affected industrialisation in the Kurdistan provinces. In 2013, businesses in Diyarbakir exported $240m, while only $170m was exported in 2016. Instead of rising in numbers, there has been a decline, while the industries in Diyarbakır have been targeting $400,000 for the last year of 2016. Diyarbakır is still very, very backward in its employment and export rankings. In the 1990s, the Kurds who fled from Diyarbakir to countries such as Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands during the years of the solution process, social peace, and the establishment of non-conflict environment, had returned to them because they wanted to invest there, but now they have given up their investments. Today, the population of Diyarbakır is very young...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0196par0208	Mr. Taşçıer, I made a statement at the top of the 1st article, stating that I would not give additional time to talk about the motions. That's why I can't give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0195par0209	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0196par0211	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to support the development and production of Industrial Development and Production in the United States, we propose and propose the addition of hardware to the amendment of Article 6948, which is part of Article 1 of Law 4848, which is intended to be replaced by Article 4 of the Law. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Anyone who wants to talk about the motion is Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0197par0224	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on our motion on Article 4 of the Law Bill 485. Before I begin my speech, I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear MPs, I need to repeat over and over again the sensitivity of my constituency, the Lightman's olive trees. The idea that the oil from the mountains, the city that flows from its plains, is the center of agriculture, tourism and historical culture, and that olive trees that have been brought up over and over again in the last few days are going to be massacred makes each of us sad and anxious. Although this clause is now withdrawn from the bill, we also have concerns that if we look at the sentences expressed by the government, it will come back to life again, that it will somehow be pushed in front of us. Ten percent of the world's olive trees are in Turkey, in our country, in us. If the law had been passed, if there were less than 15 talents of olive trees in one acre, they would not have counted as olive groves. In the Aegean and Marmara, where the older trees are, the tree frequency in the olive groves is an average of eight to ten per grain. I've said this before, so if such a law had been passed, our olive trees would have suffered a great deal of damage in the Aegean, especially in Aydın. The number of olive trees is 22 million, 201, 194. These are available in official correspondence. The ratio of this to Turkey is 13 per cent. From 2016-2017, olive production was 283,151 tonnes in Aydın. 36,810 tonnes of olives produced in Aydin have been used in exports. The production of olive oil is 25,000 tonnes in Aydın. The number of oil exports is 13,000 tonnes.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0198par0227	We've never seen oil from Aydın. It never comes from Aydın. It's olive oil from Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0197par0228	I hope I do someday. So more than half of the oil production is made for exports. Turkey welcomes 13 per cent of oil production. Why did I give you this information? I gave him this, and today, a pamphlet was sitting on my desk. I'm sure this pamphlet has reached every congressman, I'm guessing. It was on my desk with an article in my name. Mr. Congressman, in recent days, false information about the destruction of olive fields and the removal of olive groves has taken place on the agenda. It begins with the Olive Action Plan. Here is information about the rehabilitation of the wild olive trees, which we particularly call mad. I'd like to criticize this in your presence. Number one: there are proportions of olive oil produced in the world. It started in 2009-2010, and ended in 2013-2014. The latest production tone is 180,000. Why did they not feel the need to place 2016 and 2017? Because it dropped to 143,000 tons during this period. It's something I want to criticize again, and it's a very important issue, where you're talking about vaccinating your crazy trees. Two paintings have been presented, and there are many provinces in these two paintings, but there is no Aydın. I wonder why there's no Enlightenment. I see he talks about at least 100 trees in Sakarya, about the vaccination of 406,500 trees in Mersin. The number of crazy olive trees in Aydin is 2 million 324, 978. The ratio to Turkey is one-quarter. Why is it not counted or taken into account by the crazy trees in Aydýl? Frankly, I have a question mark on my mind. No CED reports are required for these geothermal plants. Why are our crazy trees ignored in reports like this? That's what's worrying us. Because, I'm concerned, does the fact that these geothermal facilities are being slaughtered without a CED report mean that the Forest Ministry will be more exposed by ignoring it as well? I salute you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0199par0236	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the declaration (also referred to in Article 4) in Article 4 of the Common Law Bill 485. Tacettin Bayır (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Tacettin Bayır, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0200par0249	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and President of the Commission, dear friends, in fact, I prepared the speech very differently two days ago, but after today's developments, I've changed my speech completely, and I think that's what suits us. Mr. Secretary, I must confess to the Commissioner that this is the first time we've seen you smile in four days. Always laugh like that, please. I'd like to share something with you, Minister. I'll take you back about 45 years. I remember, I was about the age of a child, trying to listen and observe what was going on around me. I was in front of the village coffee. He had lines of fatigue and despair on his face. The whites in his hair stood up to the sun, but it didn't fall out. And he breathed a deep breath of his smoke, and laid down again the circumcision of our son. And he said, and hated. Our boy, who was 11 years old, was my friend, because that's when I was that age. Uncle Mehmet responded immediately, didn't I tell you, Omer, there's no money in tobacco, let's not plant it? I immediately entered the conversation and read in the newspapers today that Turkey was one of the seven self-sufficient countries in agriculture. I vaguely remember. The scent of the beautiful daffodils, mixed with the smell of tobacco, was blowing into the gazebo of a light cup of coffee. In the morning, my peasant would be on his way at sunrise. Some on their asses, some on their shoulders, back to the old village. My village was the village of Mordoğan, the village of Karaburun. At that time, they had moved our village to the beach, to the seaside, which had been destroyed by the earthquake. When the sun reached the top of the hill, people in this village moved to the seaside, their sweats on their foreheads, like a rain of plenty. When it was time to anchor, they would hum and dream with every anchor on the ground. Some would sell his tobacco to his daughter, and some would sell his tobacco to his son, and some would have promised their children, and he would take them to the Izmir Fair, which he had not taken in years. They used to string tobacco and dreams into iron skewers. How could they have known that their dreams would be dry, like yellow, dried tobacco. There's no smell of tobacco in my village anymore, no smell of daffodils. No more tobacco in my village, no more young people, hunger and despair, forced them to migrate to the slums of the city. Did they ask you for much, except for what they used to earn? With the prescription given by a scholar, by the numbers that came out of a minister's lips -- then there was the Minister of Tobacco, who would give the number -- our villagers' dreams would be shattered. Now my country is not one of seven self-sufficient countries, but one of 50 countries. Aren't they forced to say to their grandchildren? We don't know why, we don't know who's playing these games over the country. But I kept asking myself... the famous African leader Jomo Kenyata, who asked Kenyata, how did you lose your land? They taught us to read the Gospel, to pray, and to open our eyes when prayer was over, the Bible was our land. For years, I can't help but wonder if it was the Gospel that we were given by those who gave us wisdom, by those who gave us prescriptions, and by those who prayed, I can't help but see that they open their eyes. Madam Minister, a woman villager in Mugla, her name is Tahibe Demirel, who says in a television channel: "I made calls to the parliament, while working in the field with my mouth and resting in the shade, I didn't get an answer. Instead of passing this law, throw a bomb on our heads, put us in a living grave. He cries out and goes: "The village of Turgut was our village. Used to be a tobacconist. We grew up in tobacco, we studied tobacco, my father married me to tobacconist, and now I'm living on olives, he says. That's why I want to thank you on behalf of all the olivers, thank you and thank you on behalf of Taiyib Demirel, and I'm waiting and I wish you'd show the same understanding for the meras. Come on, let's all make this peasant smile. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0201par0257	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0202par0259	We're in the majority, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0201par0260	The motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 445th Amendment, which is included in the 5th article (3) of the current 485 rows, be changed in the form of a month. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Ertugrul Furççı Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article (1) of Article 5 of Law Bill 485 which is currently being discussed in the following way. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakr It is imperative that industrial businesses be registered in an industrial record kept in the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and that the industrial registration certificate in return be shown to the authorities when necessary. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0203par0284	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a commitment to the amendment proposal for Article 5 on the bill for production reform number 485. By this law, the 2nd amendment to Law 6948 is expected. We find the change to be positive, but we recommend a small change. If that change is accepted, you will surely please us. With this amendment, it is mandatory that industrial businesses be registered in an industrial record held at the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and that an industrial registration document to be obtained in exchange be given to those responsible for the bureaucracy when asked. It is imperative that industrial businesses have a preregister to their industrial record before they begin production activity. It is also requested by administrations who provide you with a written, job-opening, and employment license to open a business and a business license for industrial enterprises. The newly-opened industrial enterprises must also submit statements to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology electronically within two months of the start of the operation. With these arrangements, I'd like to say that industrial businesses that are registered in the industry record have had a lot of difficulty in opening and getting a work permit. In particular, I'd like to point out that the red tape during the purchase of industrial businesses, business licenses and work licenses is very tiring, and therefore the bureaucracy here needs to be reduced. Again, it is also true that the fees from the rooms are really high today. In particular, I would like to point out that if the members of the rooms asked for any documents other than the dues paid to the rooms, the re-payment for the document is certainly an indication that they are being asked for more than necessary -- to be a member of these rooms -- I think it is imperative that the fee be removed from those who belong to the room and ask for such documents should be removed from practice. Also, look, today, business is slow, industry doesn't make money, the business doesn't make money, but the rooms are still going up, and our rooms are showing up with the capital of the big trillions, and we don't even know where they're going to spend their money, they're going to spend it there, they're going to invest in different buildings, they're going to invest in construction. Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out that I think there's a need for an adjustment in these matters, and I would like to say it's important because I would like to tell you that the members of the room are actually complaining about it. Dear lawmakers, we're industrialists, we're politicians, but we're not really out of industry. When we do our industry, we try to work efficiently, our staff's more efficient, Rantabl work and make more, export more, and grow more, but within the current structure, unfortunately, we can't do that. Hopefully, with this law coming up, I think the industrialist can breathe a little bit, relax a little bit, but whatever it is, if we really want to strengthen our industrialist, if we want to expand our local industry, if we want to strengthen our industry, increase our exports, we need different incentives, supports. That's how I finish my words. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0204par0297	Thank you, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0205par0298	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit05spe0204par0299	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0204par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 5 of Law Bill 485, the decision was not enough in the vote given by Denizli MP Kazim Arslan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 485. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 445th Amendment, which is included in the 5th article (3) of the current 485 rows, be changed in the form of a month. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Müslüm Doğan wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0206par0018	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment of Law Bill 485. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first and foremost, I would like to point out that we don't find it right to this bag of legislation that weakens legislatures every day, which should be considered independent. It will never be brought back by the Prime Minister himself. This practice, which is called "forever" but has always been applied to protect the interests of the capital owners rather than the needs of the public. When you bring up a bill that's been raised six times before -- although you've actually taken out the 2nd article -- is that really the goal, is to develop industry and production, and you need to study it very well. It also raises right concerns about agriculture, animalism, the meeting of this environmentally-related bill in the Industrial Commission and the drafting of a bag of legislation. There's everything we need to look for in the text of this bill, which envisions a change in 23 different laws; there's the SEC Law, property tax, hospitals, TRT, industry, and most importantly, the matter of olivery that directly concerns more than 10 million of our people has been withdrawn, thank God, but I'll continue because it's important. Although its full name has been defined as the Law on Development of Industry and Supporting Productions, it is clear that your main intention here is to open olives, shores and fields to industry, and to the construction sector. Dear lawmakers, olives are a highly sensitive plant to particles and pollution of air due to the way they grow. Olive trees are negatively affected by the pollution created by mines, thermal power plants, so other olive groves in areas that are not nationalized will be endangered, except in areas that have been nationalized. Furthermore, the excessive consumption of water from thermal plants is negatively affected by olive farming and agricultural production as a result of clean and polluting water. The National Council of Olives and Olive Oil states that 70 per cent of olive groves will be threatened after this bill is passed. Once again, if this bill is passed -- even though it has been withdrawn -- there is still such a danger -- there is a very high chance that it will be brought -- I will set up industry on the coasts, without finding agricultural land. There will be no legal barrier to saying it. Again, we've finished the liabilities, we've built the coasts, but we still need to invest, so let's use the meres. There's no obstacle to confiscating them with a governor's decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out something about industrial investments. For some reason in our country, an accent is set; Adapazarı, Alexei, Istanbul is built on an accene, where all of the country's resources are being transferred. That's actually the wrong policy. Why is it that you don't go to the cyclone, the Roar, the Sivas, the Erzincan axis, and you don't slip to the marash axis, but you always use this axis? Because I'd also like to point out that the land there is something to do with the geographical location of the land, the economic value of the land. Just these issues clearly reveal that this bill will destroy olive groves, shores, meres. I'd like to address the ruling party AK PARTY MPs here: Please realize the destruction this bill will cause. It's not just an olive grove, it's not a production issue. If this was just about production, we'd be discussing incentives for olive processing and olive oil production facilities, industrial incentives based on agriculture. Dear lawmakers, what have we achieved from incentives, privileges, laws to improve our industry? Is there a scientific report on this? What exactly is expected as a result of this bill? Is there a scientific report on the destruction of the bill, as well as on the opinions of trade rooms and experts, of how much our industry will develop after this bill, and how much employment will be available to our citizens? Of course not. Without any data prepared on this subject, without any data available, this bill will be of no use, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0207par0028	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 5 is accepted. There are two motions on the 6th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the agreement shall be changed as a subsistence in Article 6 of the Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Kazım Arslan İrfan Bakır Orhan Sarıbal Akif Ekici Tacettitin Bayır Tahsin Tarhan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the decree shall be changed in the form of the agreement in the 6th article of the Law Bill of 485 rows. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0208par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, yes, as we just mentioned, we're discussing a bag of laws that contain very different substances. Unfortunately, in Turkey, when you say "insane," we sacrifice everything to industry, but in doing so, we never act in harmony with nature. In fact, human beings, communities are part of nature. It's the same for people and communities if we like the color in nature, when we see different colored flowers, different colors. Our color, our diversity, should actually be our wealth. Dear friends, this country, this land, this land where different languages, different beliefs, different cultures, different ethnities live together. To single out this land, to try to rule a single faith, a single race, a single ethnicity, or a single culture in this land, causes this land to become barren. You know, there are a serious number of people in this land who believe in Alevi, and dear friends, the Aleki community also pays taxes, joins in production, but they never take advantage of the service. Our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor, our current Urban MP Osman Baydemir, has decided to build a camisole for people who have faith in Alevi in Diyarbakır, and a camisole is being established in Diyarbakır. The establishment of that document is being held today as a subject of a trial. The establishment of the ruling belief court, which does not accept it, is a subject to a debate, and it does so through secularism. However, in secularism as we know it, the state must stand equally close to all different beliefs and aim to serve everyone. But does he do it? When it comes to service to the Alekis, the state makes it a subject of a trial and sends such a statement about Osman Baydemir (Turkish) to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, again, the Alevis are seriously under the threat of ISIS. For two-and-a-half months, the temple was blockaded in Antwerp because there was an ISIS threat. Again, the governor of Ankara has recently convened representatives of the Alevi institution, and there is a serious ISIS threat against you. Protect yourselves, protect yourselves, secure your buildings. He said. Now, all of these things are supposed to be done by the state, but apparently the state wants to threaten the Alevis, instead of protecting them, because recently -- the social opposition -- Turkey -- opposes internal peace in Turkey, the AKP's policies, the Alevis oppose it, they don't see it right. Here, in order to prevent this social opposition, unfortunately, through ISIS, the Aleki institutions are being threatened in a veiled way to prevent the Alevi from participating in democracy. There are actually similar practices for Kurds, there are different cultures, there are different beliefs, and unfortunately, this land is meant to be barrened and singled out. The dissolution of that understanding, the development of industry, technology, and internal peace in this country, is actually all connected, connected. If there's internal peace in a country, it's good for investment, but no, if there are elements that threaten domestic peace, it's in danger, where industry is not expected to develop. I'll say it one more time... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying the investment environment is like a pigeon, and if you scare it off, no one's gonna be there. I salute you all with the desire to prosper.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0209par0061	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the agreement shall be changed as a subsistence in Article 6 of the Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Orhan Sarıbal (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Orhan Sarıbal wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0210par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, although Mr. Secretary object first, are now traditional, but this time tradition is broken -- instead of the law, we're dealing with a large sum of money coming in our face as a sack of law. Dear lawmakers, agriculture has been mainly spoken in parliament for two days. You know why? There is a problem in Qatar, the current Qatar, in which the entire world, particularly Turkey, has to send food to the Qatar people immediately. When it comes down to it, everyone says it's strategic. But when it comes to practice, the AKP and the court regime don't judge it on the needs of society as a strategic area, it considers it as its own political medium over the poverty of society and as its own sources of Rant; I'm sorry, but that's the truth. Look, there's been an improvement on the olive, but the Minister has made it very clear that this is not over. He said, sooner or later, he is focused on bringing it back. Of course he can, he's got the power. He was only thinking about one thing, mostly based on the law we want, the law we want, the structure we want. It's not like that, it's not possible. Of course, today you can afford the majority, but as in 2007, for example, you may not find the straw, even if you have the money. Just like you're asked to discipline the industry with an import sword, an import stick. I'd like to give you a few examples of valuable lawmakers: protein production in the European Union and the United States is between 70 and 61 grams per person, and we only have 31 grams. Again, in the world right next to us, Greece, Germany, Britain, France, Canada, the United States is producing between 70 and 80 kilograms of meat per person per year - red plus white meat -- unfortunately, we do 36 kilograms -- and more than 60 per cent of this 36 kilograms is white meat. The equivalent is that they consume red meat three times, four times as much as us, and unfortunately we consume between 10 and 12 kilograms. What does that tell us? If it weren't for the Festival of Ramadan and the Festival of Sacrifice, our people would hardly be able to eat meat, and I'm glad they do. Yes, dear lawmakers, this is no way to go on. Remember 2007: drought, low price of milk, rising bait prices, 1 million milk cows went to town. You couldn't get out, you couldn't, you decided to import in 2009 and you started importing. From 2010 to today, you've bought 4,200,000 small and large head animals, you've bought 215,000 tons of red meat, and in return, you're paying $4.5 billion. You didn't really do that either, you know? By the hand of the state, you have created your own rich people with the hands of the Meat Fish Foundation, and you've even put that in business. The merchants of Mehdi Eker, and the merchants of Faruk Çelik, were divided. In Hungary, France, Argentina, Brazil, there was a conflict between the former resources and the rich ones and now the wealth of the minister. They complained to us, we talked about it here yesterday. We've seen through those complaints that you've made your own friends, your own followers rich using the money of the People's Fish Association. Of course, there was nothing to say, you had the majority, you did what you wanted. And we just said, "Oh, my God! That's not gonna happen. We said it was, but it happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me give you another example. Do you have any idea how much we paid for bait and bait supplements in 2016 alone? You gave $3 billion, $200 million, $4.5 billion in animal imports. Unfortunately, we're paying for about $9 billion in animal imports and bait imports.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0211par0081	Let's get the Mera Law out of here.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0210par0082	Yes, we'll get the Mera Law out. You destroy the Law of Mera. When you finish the Law of Mera, you end livestock.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0211par0083	No, how do we provide the bait?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0210par0084	By removing the Law of Mera, you destroy the milk.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0211par0085	How will you provide the bait?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0210par0086	By taking out the Law of Mera, you make the people go after strangers.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0212par0087	Are we the CHP? Don't do that!
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0213par0088	You're destroying the mera, it's the law of destroying the mera.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0210par0089	Of course we won't let that happen. I'll continue this tomorrow, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0214par0091	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in the first verse of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed as. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tacettin Bayır İrfan Bakır Tahsin Tarhan Yakup Akkaya Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of the declaration of administrative fines to be imposed in the second article of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 485. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, THE ENERGY, THE EMPLOYMENTS, THE INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION Government? - We disagree, sir. Erol Dora wants to talk about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0215par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 7th Amendment to the Development of Industry and Development of Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in this bill we've discussed, various regulations for the records of industrial enterprises are being introduced, and this clause is one of them. Dear lawmakers, I would like to first bring to your attention some data on the situation of the industry, which is one of the key anchors to sustain a country's economy in Turkey. Of course, when we think of industry, we think of production first. See, 27 per cent of the $29 billion loan was used in the manufacturing industry in 2002, while only 13 per cent of the $164 billion loan was used in the manufacturing industry in 2014, so the amount of loans increased by about 5.5 times, but the production share was reduced by 50 per cent. Dear lawmakers have begun to look for ways to produce tests. The industry began to gather in organised industrial areas and to be encouraged here. However, when we look at the fullness rates of organised industrial areas, we can see that 80 percent of its highest filling rate is barely found. In some organised industrial areas, it's at 20 percent capacity, while in some areas, unfortunately, it's been thrown out. Because of AKP government's ranta-based policies, manufacturing factories have shut down and continue to close quickly. On the other hand, twisted industrialization also brings twisted urbanization. Industrials have been established on the most beautiful coves, on the shores of the sea, with no transportation problems. As a result, environmental problems have arisen, but we all know that the Ministry has no serious plan for these environmental problems. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government wants to look like it is developing policies towards industrial production with some local regulations, but it is also the government that has sold hundreds of factories such as Turkey's engine, such as TEKEL, SEKA. Instead of supporting these factories, it is impossible for a government to develop policies that can actually solve industrial structural problems. How many factories are currently at the bankruptcy table, facing investment? How many factories in Turkey have signs for sale? Many incentive packages have been announced so far; what is the contribution of the incentives to production, what are the concrete contributions that they contribute to employment, what has been the contribution that children have had to avoid being workers? See, TECHNIC data shows that the number of child laborers has reached 2 million, and the overwhelming majority of these children are employed under social security, underpaid, and under poor conditions. Mr. Secretary should explain these things. Dear lawmakers, today an industrialist has to prepare dozens of documents to obtain visas when a business manager wants to leave the country. In order to get visas, industrialists struggling with bureaucratic obstacles must be saved from this torment. The prime minister of the period, Mr. Davutoglu, promised to travel to Europe without a visa in the autumn of 2016. We've all seen what a failure this has led to. At this point, unfortunately, the AKP government does not have any serious work towards facilitating its way out of the country to the industrialists. Dear lawmakers, the basis for almost all laws brought to parliament's agenda by the AKP government is stressed that we should produce products with high-tech, but when we look at reality, we face the opposite. Sadly, due to the country's unstable political climate, many of our well - educated young people have migrated abroad in some way. It is not possible for us to reach a good point in keeping our young people in this country with painful political policies. So we have to ask: What human resources will produce high-tech technology? We have to be realistic. Now, even the industrialist invests in construction instead of investing in his business. The AKP continues to bury the country's money in cement, sand, concrete, as it raises the construction industry instead of production. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0216par0123	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0217par0124	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0216par0125	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since the Presidential Court is having second thoughts as to whether or not there are enough decisions, I'm going to take a vote to determine the number of decisions that I'm going to make by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement referred to in the first verse of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed as. Jacob Akkaya (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0218par0142	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. When we look at the title of the bill we discussed, I really think of it as a bill that we should all support. But is it true that when we look at its contents, it says so in its title, but in its content, does it say so? Unfortunately, he doesn't say that. What's he saying? There's a legal proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in order to promote industry and support production. From 2002 to today, who is in power? The AKP is in power. So, what has the AKP done to increase production so far? He's done nothing, and he's done self-destructive applications. The privatisation factories were shut down, they didn't continue, they didn't replace the production and they didn't replace it. I say to Mr. Minister, this is a blessed day, for God's sake, on this blessed day, from 2002 to today, have you opened a place of business in the AKP's government that smokes chimneys and one person gets a job, a place where one person enters?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0219par0146	No, they've opened a prison!
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0218par0147	So now you're bringing us this kind of legal arrangement, like we're from outer space. Had it not been so, if it had been otherwise, nearly 7 million young people today would not have been unemployed, and there would not have been a 12% unemployment rate today. You think you're making with cement and iron, but you're cheating on yourself. Look, you still don't realize the damage you've done to this country with four plus four. You've eliminated vocational high schools. We're shorthanded today. Go to vocational schools, 25 to 30 years ago, with technology. I'm an ex-unionist, and I've studied vocational high schools in Germany and Japan as a result of the Leonardoda Vinci Program under the agreement that this Ministry of National Education has made with Turkey-İSK. When we got there, we saw that they had vocational high schools that worked in the form of a lab, so after they graduated from those upper secondary schools, they worked in all kinds of industrial factories with no difficulty, and they were building their jobs. So, what did you do? By altering this educational system, you put dynamite at the bottom of your vocational high schools by turning all these schools into imam-gap high schools. One of the most important flaws in the industrialisation and development of Turkey today is the situation in which vocational upper secondary schools are unfortunately today. Look, from 2002 to today, you've been trying to make pardons, new regulations, incentives about the problems and problems of employers from the AKP, but you're not afraid to take away the workers' rights in this legal arrangement you've brought in. What is this? This is where you eliminate the employee's most natural, family-life Sunday. What is this? Look, we passed a Health and Safety Act. These were to be applied immediately. Last year you transferred, the year before that. This bill has to do with business health and occupational safety... which Turkey has a criminal record for, in Europe, the first and third in the world. In 2017 alone, 1,760 people were killed in business accidents. With this legal arrangement, you will suffer the plague, the sin, the shame. And with this stuff here, you're trying to get rid of it. I mean, we know exactly who you serve. We'd like to go down in history here, too. You know, Mr. Secretary, what happened when the AKP first came to power? The Health and Safety Act was to be breached. How did it happen? You put it off for six months first. And then... Do you know what you did when employees of ten employees and employees took advantage of the Health and Safety Act? You put him on top of 30 people. Today, at least 95 per cent of Turkey's 1,750,000 businesses employ workers under 30 people. So the legal arrangements you make are neither in the interests of the worker nor in the interests of the employer. So, come, on this blessed day, turn away from these mistakes, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0220par0152	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0221par0156	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0220par0157	There's got to be a roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call. Mr. Spectacular, Mr. Erkan Aydın, Mr. Pekşen, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Engin, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gaytancioğlu, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Karbük, Mr. Kuşoğlu. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 7th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the declaration of Article 8 of the Law Bill 485 is corrected as the articles. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakr Tacettin Bayır Tahsin Tarhan Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Common Law Bill 485 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı Garo Paylan Erol Dora Behcet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0222par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 8 of Bag Number 485. I salute the General Assembly. However, I will not be able to make a point before I enter the bill, which is that the movement of the palace and the government to discredit HDP and its MPs continues. Two days ago, what happened to Mr. Alican Önlü, and yesterday, Mr. Pervin Buldan is part of the project and the continuation of it. The actions of Mr. Pervin Buldan, who has been neutral, objective, and acting as Speaker of Parliament in this Parliament, were actually done to this Parliament. In public and public, your attitude to discredit is counterproductive, our co-Chairs, our deputies, are growing in the public eye day by day. I object to protesting and protesting this demeaning attitude against our Deputy Speaker, where the word is being rescinded. I think that the government should give up its position, and the House should take initiative in this matter. Mr. President, I think you should say a few words about this. Yeah, they say the 2nd article on olive groves was removed from the bag, but should we believe it or not? He had agreed on four parties in the past, that the provinces of Şırnak and Hakkari were to be removed from the province and made a city of Cizre and Yüksekova. It was understood, it was understood, it was not to be touched, it was not to be touched, it was not to be touched either Hakkari or Şırnak, but we're looking at it again, it is on the agenda to remove Hakkari and Şırnak. Yes, and the election was about those ambitious words by the power. In the election, you were talking about domestic and national surrogacy. What really happened to your national and domestic surrogacy? Are these laws the ones who look out for the profits of several capital companies, locals, or those who try to prevent people's nature, geography, and destruction of their habitats? You're still trying to secure the runt of these companies under the name "enforcement," and we're asking why these people's tax-related investments, projects, are being given to whom, and why they're being encouraged. I think it would be better for the public to work overtime at the point of renewable investment resources, at the point of RD work and the use of renewable investment resources, rather than to strengthen private companies' gains so strongly against the citizens, that they will cause environmental disasters, without supervision, and that they will not be subject to any restrictions. While we're making laws here tomorrow, whose olive grove, whose sea and whose land we're creating the legal opportunity to land on investment companies? Only those who live in their own territory, in their own environment, who will deal with these projects, will never be able to express themselves in any way. So, in the thousands of years of life cycles, these people have created a habitat for themselves, and they have no ideas, thoughts, or will? Everyone will have words and influence in activities that will seriously affect the environment, but our citizens in that area will not have a single word. Partly, the laws concerning the law, olive groves and shores are clearly removed in favour of a citizen living in a region. We've explained it in our election declarations, and we're doing it today in Congress. We also stated that the locals, the natural assets and resources of the region, have direct words, authority and decision-making and need to be, and that mechanisms should be created. In the Black Sea, the people of the region must decide whether the Green Road, the HESEs, the third bridge to Istanbul, a new airport, or a throat, the Gunner's Barrack in the Travel Park, Sinop and Mersin, the nuclear plant, and the Yırca Soma (the Yırca Soma) power plant, should be built not by Ankara, but by the people of that region. We will therefore support investment and incentive policies, which, of course, favour public and labour, rather than provide the need for a few capital companies. He says we'll fight to protect nature, the water, the forest, the streams, the meres, the beaches, the agricultural areas, the water ecosystems, and to prevent it from being used as a profit and Rant area in the capital savings process, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0223par0196	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the declaration of Article 8 of the Law Bill 485 is corrected as the articles. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0224par0209	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to talk to you about our motion on Article 8 of the Law Bill 485 that we're discussing. This article changes the Mark Tax Act, and some investment transactions remove the stamp tax. Dear lawmakers, there have been very important economic laws since November 1st, bags of laws. Obviously, in the form of panic, the government is trying to do something to improve the economy's decline, but despite these actions, there's no sign that the economy has improved. You'll say: "How come there isn't one?" In the first quarter, we grew by 5%. My dear friends, I want to talk about this 5 percent. See, there's the ease of loans, tax premiums, discounts, land prices are not taken, there's an incentive as much as the world, and yet the numbers that have come up are not encouraging. The interest is still too high, inflation is too high, unemployment is too high. In his speech today, Mr. President focused only on growth figures, but not on these key indicators of the economy. My dear friends, this growth is seriously problematic. If there's growth, employment should also increase in parallel with this. But let's see, there was an average of 17 percent growth between 2005 and 2010, and there was an increase in employment in parallel to about 12 per cent. Between 2010-2015, there's a total growth of about 24 percent, there's an increase of about 21 per cent in employment. But let's see, growth is 5%, but there's no serious increase in employment parallel to this, around 1.2 percent. My dear friends, look, there's 1.7 percent growth in industrial production, but the growth account says the industry has grown by 5.3 percent. This means that production is increasing, we produce by employing very few people because employment is not increasing. There's talk of a million figures, but there's nothing to confirm that number. Are we producing very valuable products? What's going on? Why don't we hire people, use too high-tech? But it's not like that either. Look, about us, in developing countries, what's the high-tech share of exports in India, 8 percent in Mexico, 16 percent in Turkey? 3.1 percent. So this growth... the incentives that you've brought to high-tech have been useless, there are very serious contradictions. My dear friends, look, this government didn't do the government, so you can say they're autonomous organizations, but at the beginning of this year, they did something very important and we're still talking about it. What did he do? So, while the statistics were being done, growth and so on, he went into revision, and suddenly Turkey began to grow by 2 points, 3 points, 4 points. Look, our national income, with an overnight transaction of 700 billion dollars in domestic revenues -- it wasn't done overnight, it was done in a long time, but it was announced overnight -- it went up to $860 billion, my dear friends. Savings were being brought up as a very serious problem. In fact, in this mandatory BES, there's no savings in Turkey, there's no savings, because we don't have savings, we finance it at high interest, there's a lot of things, there's a lot of reasons. But there was a savings in Turkey. Again, you have increased the savings of 14 per cent overnight to 25 per cent. My dear friends, these numbers are not ordinary numbers. Politically, these numbers don't work. The budget is based on these figures. Debts, buying, giving, investments, taking funds from one place to another, it's all done through these numbers. If these numbers are inflated, they're really beating the right of the subject, and it's obvious that your numbers are seriously hormonal, problematic. My dear friends, we must rely on the institutions of the Republic of Turkey. If these numbers are politically wrongly calculated, then you really need to sit down and think. Today, the TÜİK President, his friends and his team presented a presentation at the Plan and Budget Commission, and I directed all these questions to them. On what grounds did you make these numbers, how did you do it? They talk about the series, but they didn't say anything satisfying, they didn't really say it. So I asked the president himself, you took out the mandatory BES, and you cut 50 liras from the guy who got $1,400, see, 50 from the guy who got $1,400. Why? "We're very low on inventory." he says. But our savings weren't low. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, I ask a committee if it's appropriate to lie to the government, to lie to its fellow citizens, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0225par0219	Where did you get the 7 million?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0224par0220	These are the figures of the state, the figures of the TÜİK.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0225par0221	Where did you get the 7 million?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0224par0222	I didn't invent it, these numbers are your numbers. There are contradictions in your numbers. That's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0226par0223	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 8 accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the development zones of technology development and industry websites of Law Bill 485 in Article 9 of the current 485 rows will be corrected by the development zones of technology development and by the industry websites. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır Haluk Pekşen İrfan Bakr Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the current Law Bill 485 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Ertuğrul Kukçı Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ertugrul Kürkcı wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0227par0247	Mr. President, my dear friends, we ask that the exception of contracts and commitments to allocation of land in these 9th Articles of organised industry, free, industry, technology development sites and industrial sites be excluded from the law. That's why it's so obvious. This aims to ensure that straight, straight, equity owners are more immune than a part of the taxes that should be passed on to the public, to the public, to the public budget. The stamp tax is not a small source of public income because the 2016 figures account for 2.18 per cent of the collectables of central management revenues, 2.25 per cent of the collectables of general budget revenues, and 2.5 per cent of the collectables of general budget taxes. To give up a part of it is to give up an unrequited public income. It's hard to believe that it's going to be done to develop industry, because we've had the opportunity to talk yesterday, and it's more about opening spaces to violent capitalists who want to turn their capital into investments than to develop industry. I'm not saying it's a pejorative, shrinking, capitalist, capitalist, but some need to tear more, scratch more, scratch more, scratch more, while others have had their stomach full for a hundred years because they've been doing it, bloated, and now they're rich enough to look good. For example, TÜSIAD bosses have been able to tell the president of the Justice and Development Party to be removed from the state of emergency, the bans have been lifted because in the past 15 years, especially during the Justice and Development Party, there have been so many reasons for privatisations and other tax reductions that they have become more tolerant of the strikes. The point is, it's time to look out for those who haven't got the patience yet, who've just been put in, who are trying to tear everybody up, kick everybody, smash them, fill their safes. So the chairman of the Justice and Development Party said to the TÜSİAD people: What do you have against the State of Emergency? What is it, your factories don't work, you can't make a profit? We've come to the General Assembly, and you've started to run your factories, what are you complaining about? In fact, it's saying how much you need to look out for those who are trying to tear up all over the place. However, the removal of this stamp tax from this tax in this context may not mean giving up anything at all, because there is already a Law Code No. 687 in which stamp taxes are essentially not to be collected from the employer. What you're doing when you take this out of the law means that you're going to give up your share of the state's unemployment benefit to the employers, but the final analysis will mean that all the contributions the workers made to the unemployment fund will be taken from them by a government that has already lost all these transactions, which has invested almost 80 per cent of all capital in the fund, which has distributed almost 80 per cent of its stock to the bosses. In any case, all of these taxes, along with those taken from the laborer, who were not taken from the boss, are being taxed on the working class. We want him out of the law.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0228par0251	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the development zones of technology development and industry websites of Law Bill 485 in Article 9 of the current 485 rows will be corrected by the development zones of technology development and by the industry websites. Haluk Pekşen (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Haluk Pekşen wants to talk about the motion, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Pekşen.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0229par0264	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, if there is no trust, there is no community. We're talking about investment in a country with no life, property, and no future security. Actually, what we're talking about is an excuse to avoid the day. We're talking about a country where the justice system has completely collapsed. What we call the system is the rule of law. Without it, there is no talking about economic development or social development. In your time in power, oil distribution companies, banking sectors, insurance sectors, brands in malls, and many other sectors have become alienated by privatisation images. You don't need innovation, vision, risk-taking skills to compete in the global league, and you don't need pictures with the world's leader and so on. The main thing is to take care of the values of this country, to take care of the young people of this country. Remember, in the early years of your power, there was a lot of talk about national income, but you haven't spoken in a long time. What happened? Let's talk about his national income in 2017. There's always a need to be taken seriously by the international community for fundamental rules such as human wealth, geographical position, informal property, competitiveness, creativity, design, brandization, but unfortunately they're not your interests in any way. In the world, the driving power of the new economy is the resourceful man, the quality of the labor force, the quality of the brain. Turkey, which is a G20 country, unfortunately can't get its children into the world's top 40 most resourceful of all. The country is in G20, but none of the growing young people are even in the first 40, so it shows that in the coming years, Turkey will also perform a great miracle. So we need to talk about reforms and innovations in education, and we need to talk about them urgently. In this context, the debate that you're opening up as project schools is now a huge disappointment in front of Turkey. We're giving repetitive homework, but strangers are giving project-based homework to their children, and they're ahead of us in this training. ▪ Why can't we raise people with advanced skills, who are the driving force of ascension? We never ask and question. When our competitors go out on the field with their best players, we drive the most influential players into the field. It takes fair competition, free society, and skill-based training to compete with our competitors, but in Turkey, unfortunately, none of this means anything. The source we need to become rich is not in the mountains, but in the plains of the Black Sea; it is in human quality; it is in human investment. The way to compete in a new economy based on skill is to open its doors to everyone in the country and offer opportunities in front of the resourceful. It would be a great disappointment if we were to receive a reward based solely on the advocacy of Turkey. Now we need to build trust, not a double road, to continue our economic development. Everyone who gets off the plane needs confidence that they can get out of this country alive and free again, and that's the most urgent thing to talk about right now. And that seems unlikely these days, with polarization and constant triggering the fault lines of society. You don't have to worry about building the rule of law, improving the capacity of our courts to distribute justice. Besides, as the world talks about its fourth industrial revolution, you're in a race to enter a new player in 2020. You're going to build a car, that race is over in the world, you've lost. So far, no sector in Turkey belongs to the AKP in 15 years. This sector belongs to us. You haven't added any sectors you might call your history. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0230par0270	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0231par0274	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0230par0275	There's got to be a roll call. I'll identify the MPs who requested roll call. Mr. Sugar, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Pekshen, Mr. Engin, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gaytancioğlu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. All, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Karbün, Mr. Karbüyik, Mr. Sarıbal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 10th article of Law Bill 485, which is discussed, shall be changed by the ministry. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan İrfan Bakır Tacettitin Bayır Hayati Tekin Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current Law Bill 485 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0232par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've been talking about incentives, pardons, postponements for about a year now, and all of this is just a little bit of a relief for the capital. But it's not working, guys. But you can say: "Ya, this three-month growth has come at 5%." Look, it means it's working, but he's had some serious costs, so you should know that. One, you've given up fiscal discipline, you've left a great deal of all the loans the Treasury has saved for fifteen years. The second point is that countries whose democracy is strong don't compromise capital like this, they get their taxes, they get their tuition, and they distribute it to small-time social policies. But if democracy isn't strong, unfortunately, we've been going upside down for the last two years. I could talk about countries like us, like China. You know, we've grown five percent, and China is growing seven percent. But at what cost does it grow? Its population grows as a slave over 1 billion, growing up in a hurry to capital, bringing its nature to capital. Unfortunately, for the past two years, we, as a democracy-growing, and as a democratic country, are unfortunately drawn into a league where both domestic and foreign capital invests, and in this sense in social justice, a country that can bring all our people to prosperity and peace, and we, like China, are also faced with a law and a bag of laws that draw both our people and our nature to capital. This bag has tried to refer to the law, even the olive tree, which, thankfully, is a bit of a step back, but it still continues to refer to our methods. Dear friends, countries that can develop knowledge, technology in this day and age are democratic countries or countries that are on the road to democracy. In countries like us, unfortunately, only by exposing your people, your hard work, and capital, I will not take taxes from you. You can also invest in my ceremonies. At the same time, if you invest, don't worry, the worker won't make a strike either, I'll postpone their strike. You can only withdraw capital by saying, "Ooh!" I won't be charged, I won't be taxed. But it's clear what the added value is. Mr. Secretary knows that our high-tech products are 3%, Mr. Secretary. Now we have balsamic in our language, 3%. So we can't produce high-tech products. So where are we going, and how are we staying at 3 percent? Since we're not a democratic country, because our universities aren't free... I was recently in America, I met a doctor at Harvard, he's been working on a drug related to diabetes for four years, and right now only the drug he's producing is a revolution in medicine, a billion-dollar value is being appraised, they're chasing companies. Just one person, look. We're going to open maybe a thousand factories that are polluting our environment, polluting our nature, chasing our workers, so that we won't be able to get the value of a person, a brain, the added value, Mr. Secretary. Hundreds, thousands of young people like this are now in Western universities. In the same way, many of these less developed, less developed democracies, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, developed brains are currently doing this kind of scientific research at Western universities. Those who can't improve their democracy in this age are doomed to attract their people to the capital, and it's in the middle-income trap, in the trap of middle-democracy, causing our country to struggle for more and more years, my friends. Come on, let's go this way. Or you'll make more compromises, and we'll continue to crawl in the middle-income trap at $9, 10 grand like this. Come on, let's go this way. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0233par0312	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 10th article of Law Bill 485, which is discussed, shall be changed by the ministry. Hayati Tekin (Samsun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Hayati Tekin, Samsun MP who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Tekin, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0234par0325	Mr. President, members of the Honourable Assembly, I have made a pledge on the 10th Amendment of Bill 485. I salute the High Council. The 10th article, as you know, is about co-ops, and also about raising the general council from two to three years. I'd like to explain that I find that positive. Other than that, on this occasion, we all know we have a lot of problems. I, today, would like to explain to you the situation of the Samsun Sugar Factory. Mr. Minister, the Samsun Wednesday Sugar Factory is not employed because of the maintenance of machines, which has been waiting for six years. Susurluk, Alpullu, Pain and Kars Candy Factorys from other sugar factories that have been waiting for the same reason began this year. We know they're moving beets from far away to get them running, so it's decided.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0235par0329	It's thanks to the Minister.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0234par0330	As we rejoice in these factories, I would like to point out that we, myself and the Samsunites, regret that the Sugar Factory on Wednesday is not being run because Bafra and Wednesday Plains wait for the Sugar Factory to be run to produce sugar. Samsun, the only city of the Black Sea, with fertile plains, faces removing nuts for low prices, and faces leaving animalism in the mountains because of meat imports. Because of the slowness of the irrigation projects, also because of the lack of money, production is constantly going back because of AKP's indifference. The manufacturer now faces quitting agriculture. Madam Secretary, at this time as we approach the sahhur, it remains the most memorable point or anecdote that many speakers from opposition or power have expressed about the reduction of TRT shares in many of your ministry's work or talks on these materials. It's like there's a emphasis here on the removal of the most important TRT share. If you ask me, close the whole TRT. I think you'd do the country a more radical favor than take the cut. Of course, by the way, you will lose AKP's trumpet, not only is there a great lack, but there are many trumpets in the pool. Or at least it would be more honest if you took away the T.T. from the T.T. In the Constitutional referendum, which you have won by fraud, it is fixed with statistical information that TRT has spent 41 minutes on it and 1 minute on it. In total, propaganda divided by yes, so 95 percent, including all pool media, worked for 5 percent, no. If it was the other way around, it would have turned out to be 70 to 80 percent. (CHP clapping in rows) Let's make a note of that. Your ministry is no different from Samsun and our country. Unfortunately, with the revolutionary automobiles, this country has passed the time of the exploding motors. In the days of Demirel, king of the dams, he passed over the bleachers. Today, when wars have been launched into space, we have decided to build strategically only tanks with very weak defence systems, and we're learning from the press that we've taken the position of slowing down and stopping whatever excuse we've been taking lately. Again, when we look at the world, where our country needs a lot, and it's also a modern investment, and the production of the fast train is the need and the need for the age, I'm guessing it's still the courage to build cars with the court's mind. We could call it a sinkhole. I don't know if you found this. We all know recently that when Tesla was groundbreaking in the electric car, when Toyota was building an electric and gasoline car that supported each other... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Google's talking about a manless, driver-free car, and we're arguing for the same reason. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0236par0340	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and offer to change the description of the area in Article 11 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bair İrfan Bakr Ceyhun İrgil Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 485 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Ertuğrul Kukçı Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ahmet Yıldırım wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0237par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, item number 485, Article 11 of the Bill of Law, which makes it so-called easy for investors to add a joke about buildings in organised industrial areas, free zones, industrial areas, technology development areas and industrial sites. Now, the name of the bag law is the Development of Industry and the Support of Production. It can only come out as a general admission that there is no point of objection to the name, but let me ask you here, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mr. Secretary, you know, last fall, the charm centers, covering 5 central 23 provinces, were introduced to reduce or repair the inequality between the regions, and in the period between 28 November 2016 and 11 January 2017, in 23 counties, the majority of them were in the East and Southeast Anatolia region, they applied for 1,200 investors. The prime minister, who is excited about this, comes out and calls 23 representatives of the province to Ankara and gives a speech like this at Chankaya Mansion on January 24th of this year, six months ago; and he tells 23 county representatives, including governors, mayors, rectors, development agencies, that everyone is here right now. Then I didn't hear it. I didn't hear it. Even the deaf sultan heard it. Then someone came out and I didn't hear it. I'd be very upset about it. It's been six months since he had this conversation. 1,200 investors have applied, and they want to be encouraged in this area of attraction. Is there anything explained? No. 1,200 investors who have asked for a total of 90 billion-odd support for the Attraction Centers Programme have applied to invest in these 23 provinces, but so far there is no explanation. It was presented as a big vision project. Here came lawmakers from the ruling party, who will develop the eastern part of the country. It was said, "There is less inequality between the regions here, and we were thought to be attracted to it, as it was called, "The Attraction Centers Program." The applications haven't been announced in six months, there's nothing, and the envisioned budget is around $10 billion, according to the prime minister, but the applicants demand around $90 billion. What's that all about? What will the demands be reduced to? There's no criteria. When we're without criterion, we come to think of this: We have a hesitation, a concern, a doubt, to be distributed to the ruling parties who have so far been siphoning money from these incentive laws. If not, why is the incentive of 1,200 applicants who have been pre-accepted for six months not explained in terms of their charm zones? If it does, one day tomorrow, what will they be ruled out? The chosen ones will be selected according to what? There's no assessment of concrete, objective criteria. The representatives of those 23 counties were called to the Çankaya Mansion, while most of the municipalities in the region were trustees because they were DBP. They know they're there temporarily, they know they don't choose themselves, they know they can't follow those incentives, they know they don't care about objective distribution. Now, since we've been waiting for investors for six months, how long should we be convinced that you're giving building support to organised industrial areas, industrial sites that will cover the entire country? I'll leave that to the public. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0238par0375	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and offer to change the terms of the article 11 of the Law Bill 485 rows that have been discussed in the following article. Ceyhun Irgil (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ceyhun İrgil wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0239par0388	Mr. President, good lawmakers, almost half of this law is about education. The report cards were distributed last week. Let's take a look at our lesson notes: Kenan Kumash was a graduate of Black Sea Technical University, a physics teacher, not appointed; he became a police officer; he was killed in Sultanahmet's live bomb attack. He graduated from Gazi University, was an art teacher, was not appointed, was forced to become a police officer; in the July 15 coup, the Lake Chief Special Operations Center was bombed, killed. Nuri Akman was a graduate of Erzurum Ataturk University; he was a Turkish teacher; he was not appointed; he left without appointment; he became a lieutenant; the helicopter carrying his unit fell in Hakkari, and became a martyr. Hasan Aslan was a graduate of Çanakkale 18 March University, a history teacher, was not appointed; however, he became a police officer, and was killed in a bomb attack in Şırnak. Musa Yüş was a graduate of Kayseri Ercies University, an English teacher, who received four points from KPSS but was not appointed; he became a police officer and was a martyr in Diyarbakır Sur Özakça. Altug Pek was a graduate of Adnan Menderes University, a math teacher, not appointed; no combs, no jobs, has been released, has become a lieutenant; has been a martyr in Diyarbakır Silvan. Ismet Fatih Alagöz was a graduate of Dumlupınar University, he was a literature teacher, not appointed, became a police officer; Sinan Çetin's convicted son, Wind Cetin, has been a martyr, has been paid blood money, has been paid, has been silenced, has become Ismet Fatih. Tezcan Senturk was a gym teacher; he searched for three years of work, no, forced himself to enter the mine; he died with 300 of his companions in Soma. Gamze Fiz Arslan was a graduate of Samsun University of May 19, a chemistry teacher, not appointed, took his own life. Ibrahim Yeşilbağ was a geography teacher, he was willing to go all over the country's geography, he was not appointed; he traveled for four years, hung himself, only six liras came out of his pocket. Nefize Özsoy, Çanakkale was a graduate of 18 March University, a homeroom teacher, not appointed; became a policeman, a daughter was her mother; was six months pregnant with her second child; was killed in a bomb attack in Mardin Midyat. Bünyamin Aydöğan was a graduate of Nüğde University, a homeroom teacher, discharged from teaching under the law, became an employee, worked in the construction of a irrigation line in Kahramanmarash Afshin, fell on a giant pipe removed by crane, died. Ali Sevim was a graduate of Sakarya University, an automotive teacher, not appointed, became a police officer, martyred in Diyarbakır Sur. Mustafa Ozturk was a graduate of Gazi University, an electrical teacher, was not appointed, became a police officer, was killed in a bomb attack in Beşiktaş. 76 young teachers were killed in the Van earthquake, in the ruins of our country's rotten buildings, rotten schools, materials stolen from our country, which had been robbed and robbed by thieves. He was recently a graduate of Senay Aybuke Yalçın, Iconian Necmettin Erbakan University, music teacher, 22 years old, martyred in the terrorist attack at Batman Kozluk. This is the report card that our folks have been giving us for 15 years straight. This is a quote from Mr. Yilmaz Ozdil's writing in the Speaker today. I've read for those who haven't seen it and who have seen it, to repeat it for those who are silent, and to at least keep this country's ill-fated teachers alive in the minutes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are 436,000 teachers in this country who are unemployed and 90000 teachers short. You force the teachers you have appointed under the law into inhumane conditions, such as the six-year rowing prisoner. The injustices of the interviews have come to light, but you don't hear them. The number of academics who were expelled or left unemployed is 8,000. It takes an average of thirty years to become a professor and professor. 30x8000= 240 thousand years of knowledge and labor have been wiped away in a pen. You've been silent to screams and injustices. I hope one day you won't need the mercy of people who have no conscience to hear you. But believe me, these people will never let you go. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0240par0411	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 11 is accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0241par0414	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0240par0415	Mr. Special, I believe you have a request for the 60th Amendment. Here, I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0241par0419	Mr. President, I've just come to my attention, and I've asked the office head of records, and we all have to do the right thing together, when the session is in session, and he's in charge of the congressional deputy and the names of the valued clerks. As the session continues, we receive from time to time, which is perfectly normal -- the clerk's member friends can switch places, which just happened. This should be reflected in the report because in the future, in a four-hour period of time -- one of the most trusted documents in Congress, I think, in Turkey's most reliable document -- is that if they changed half an hour later, a clerk member who was somewhere else for three and a half hours would be arrested as if he were working here. Of course, your appreciation is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... But we have to find a solution. For example, when the clerk-member friend changes, the stenographer friends in charge of the report can't see his back either, and if you appreciate it, I think it's appropriate that you or the first time you or the first time you get a promise or the first chance you get to write a report that says that the clerk has changed, I think it's the right thing to do with the confidence of a report that's being kept so secure. I'd like to bring this to your attention, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0240par0422	Thank you, Mr. Special. From time to time, clerk members are able to replace other clerks because of their various needs. I don't think there's any need to record a report due to changes to this kind of need, but if a clerk is leaving his seat to another member, these are happening within the information of the Speaker of Parliament -- of course, it should be reflected in the transcripts. I think this is automatically reflected, but thank you for your warning. We had completed the 11th amendment vote. There are two motions on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Law 1319 in Article 12 of Law Bill 485 shall be changed in the form of the Law on Property Tax 1319. Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan Murat Minister Tacettin Bayır İrfan Bakır Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the current Law Bill 485 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0242par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, this time of night, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, the substance organises the exemption from property taxes of buildings in organised industrial areas, free zones, industry, technology development areas and small industrial sites. This, in fact, means that local governments, which are extremely important for the ministry, will be deprived of one of the key sources of income, and will again be one of AKP's prohibitors for capital. Dear friends, when we say municipalities, we've always said that a country should be run by the locals, make decisions about the locals because they're the closest organs to the public. But I would like to discuss some of the actions of the trustees assigned to 84 municipalities. The municipalities we found important, unfortunately, have been appointed trustees to 84 of our municipalities, ignoring the will of the people. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you some of the trustees' applications. The first thing the trustees did when they first arrived -- they must have been from AKP's misogynistic policies -- was to shut down women's institutions. Women's institutions have been closed not only in one province, but in all districts and districts of trustees. Again, language and cultural institutions... dear friends, when it comes to this country, we all call ourselves brothers Kurdyle, Turk. But the language institutions that have studied languages have been completely shut down by trustees, as well as the institutions that run culture, theatre. In fact, the trustees were unable to speed up, as if they had taken the public's vote, received the confidence, won the names of the municipalities, which were Kurdish, multilingual, Kurdish, Turkish, and Arabic at the time of their arrival. Look, dear friends, Sur was very important with historical values. The name of our Diyarbakır Bar President, Mr. Tahir Elufa, who was killed in his statement, opened a park called Van Çatak Municipality, called Tahir Evotak. Dear friends, the appointed trustee has changed his name to the name of the Tahir Elçi (Tahir) in the municipality of Van Çatak. That's it? The statue of Uğur Kaymaz, who was killed with 13 bullets at the age of 12, was destroyed by Mardin Kızıltepe Municipality. Again, as a hero of democracy... in fact, in 1994, when we had a repeat of the current practices... we were caught in the back of the back of Orhan Doğan. Dear friends, born in Cizre, Orhan Doğan. There was a park in the name of Orhan Doğan. In Cizre district, the trustee removed the name Orhan Doğan. Roboski monument; people, people who were bombed from airplanes, Roboski people, 33 of us who were killed, a memory that should not be forgotten, even an account, but our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality Roboski had planted the monument, and the in-laws who had destroyed Roboski's monument. Dear friends, these are the practices of trustees. I'd like to remind the trustees that it doesn't belong to you, it belongs to the people's rightful representatives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And there -- even if you find it on the ground -- whose is it? You have to ask -- it was the trust of the people.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0243par0458	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0244par0459	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0243par0460	I submit the motion to your votes... I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's hesitation among the clerks, I'll use electronics to determine whether or not there's enough to decide whether or not there's enough. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Law 1319 in Article 12 of Law Bill 485 shall be changed in the form of the Law on Property Tax 1319. Murat Minister (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Murat Minister wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0245par0478	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 12, and I salute the Veteran Assembly. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about this bill that comes in the form of a bag and a basic law. Dear friends, the law we're meeting with is a method that aims to fast-track the legislative process, perhaps hundreds of times, to shorten the debates and talks in Parliament, to disable the Parliament's will partially, to make the law fast. Is it appropriate for the law-making technique? It's not. Because even the text of the law from a thousand years ago says: "There must be a separate law on every subject." So, what do we do? We're changing 30 laws in order to refer to the head of the legislation as,,,,,,,,,........ in some laws. That's the kind of law that's made, friends, GDK, genetically modified law. Even though it's not the basic law, we're talking about the Civil Code as the basic law, and we're making it look like we're smuggling stuff out of a fire. With this law, we make changes in 30 different laws and laws, from the Law of Olives to the Law of Real Estates, from the Law of Weekends to the Law of Public Contraction. We discuss different issues as a package of laws, each one separately from what should be discussed in this House until the coasts open to development and installation. Guys, a bag of laws is not a legal term and it's not a law-making technique. We repeat it every time, but you don't give up. And we're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Dear friends, let's come to the bill. I don't think there are any deputies in Turkey who won't support the development and production of industry. But you can't correct strategic mistakes with tactical achievements. Turkey, on the one hand, is involved in endless conflicts in the Middle East with new Ottoman dreams, looting natural riches, especially oil and natural gas, ethnic and religious conflicts, the fight against power and hegemonia. The countries that are buying goods from our exporters cancel their orders and while searching for new countries and producers to produce justice for grooms, as we pass by the poor, there is no way to increase production in Turkey with the bill of law, when we have decided to send troops to Qatar, where we have no jobs. Dear friends, strengthening local governments in Turkey, being financially autonomous is a subject that has been in power's tongue since 2002. In fact, the government, which shuts down city municipalities because it lacks economic efficiency, is now destroying one of the most important sources of income in municipalities on Article 12 to reduce the industry's investment costs. The building property tax, which is not important to the single industrialist, will not even affect the production costs, will create a serious loss of income in local governments, in organised industrial areas. For example, in İzmir, which includes 13 organised industrial regions within its borders, local governments will lose a quarter of its annual budget's property tax revenues, investments will fail, plans and projects will be interrupted. If the industry is to be supported -- whether it is -- it should be done from the central budget, not from the back of local governments. Why do you remove property tax, one of the most important income markers in the municipality, and not foresee a change in the Law on Taxes of Institutions? Mr. Secretary, local governments cannot be weakened and the industry can't be strengthened; on the contrary, powerful local governments contribute more to the city's economic development and, by the way, to the industry. Dear friends, this bill has no science, no innovation, no knowledge, no education, no technology. What? There are surface-resolved efforts. The only thing that makes us happy in this bill is that the second article on olives has been withdrawn from the bill. Dear friends, the olive is in the Ancient Age, there is in mythology, there is in the religious texts, there is in the livelihood of 750,000 families who live to be a thousand years old; there was before us, and there will still be after us. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0246par0487	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who do not accept... Article 12 is accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0247par0490	Mr. President, do you think it's possible for me to make a statement based on 60?
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0246par0491	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0247par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. When I asked my fellow officials if they had an Election Law, they brought me the Election Law and the Political Parties Act. (x) When I look at it, the printing date is 2007. The year is now 2017, unfortunately, the Election Law of ten years ago, and there has been a lot of changes. Now, according to this old law, if we make a statement here, we'll be misleading the public. My request from the Parliamentary Presidency must be renewed immediately because there is also a law in our law that we don't know the law. How will our citizens follow these changes if we can't follow the law from here, Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0248par0497	Mr. Tanal, you're an experienced lawyer, you don't leave with a 2007 law.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0247par0498	Look, 2007, let me introduce you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0249par0499	But he's singing for us, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0248par0500	Mr. Tanal, I understand what you're saying, my job is to run the General Assembly, but this statement of yours has been filed, and the relevant departments will take it from the transcripts and make the necessary evaluation. Congressmans, there are two motions on the 13th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Common Law Bill 485 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ertuğrul Kürçcı The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Akif Ekici Tahsin Tarhan İrfan Bakır Tacettitin Büyır Didem Engin Does the commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'll make a promise to those who have motions for the same kind of motions. Alif Doğan Türkmen, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0250par0528	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for the 13th Amendment to the Constitutional Code of Laws in the Purpose of Development of Industry and Supporting Production. Dear lawmakers, after the July 15 coup attempt, the AKP was declared the State of Emergency with the votes of MPHP. The exhumed SECs, practices, individual rights and freedoms, continue to strike, after a coup against the republic and democracy. With these decrees, 102,551 people have been suspended. Many of them were fired for their opposition, not for the fight against ▪. The ones who were fired are the ones who cut your ribbons and put money in the bank where you opened it; the ones who allowed you to build your children, the ones who went to the schools, the ones who worked in the classrooms, the ones you allowed to build. And who else? Those who have struggled with the understanding of Å in their lifetime to make Turkey a secular, modern country. There's Ahmet Karagöz from Adana. A teacher dedicated his life to secular Turkey was expelled from his profession in this furya. The only thing Ahmet Karagöz does is fight against Å and derivative understandings. You expelled Ahmet Karagöz because Ahmet Teacher defended secularism. You exported Nuriya Gülmen and Namih Özakça, went on a hunger strike to return to work, and now you put these people in the cells because they wanted their jobs. Judge Mustafa, you banished Montenegro, for what? Because you don't understand the judge who evacuated the grooms? On July 15th, those who call on the public to the street, called on to the streets, democracras and the republic, today, defend the republic and democracy, are losing their jobs. You know what's the most painful thing about being human? At least 37 of the people who were discharged, arrested, near them, have committed suicide. Mehmet Fatih Shaş, Investigator of Çukurova University, young man, discharged, unable to return to work, committed suicide. Hasan Erkuş, a police officer who called you "good morning" and protected you every day when you came to the House, said on social media, "I am not a traitor." He committed suicide. Dear lawmakers, you're not only exporting these people, you're exporting their wives, you're condemning these people to starvation, you're confiscating their families, you're confiscating their pensions, you're canceling their credit cards, you're confiscating their property, and you're making them unable to work anywhere. It's the principle of universal criminal law, the principle of personality of crimes. What are you guys doing? You're pointing the finger at the whole family, and you think you're gonna get away with this? Those who have applied to the ECHR against your illegal practices also rejected their application to the ECHR. The ECHR rejected it as an internal law. The ECHR also threw the ball and made a political decision. That way, the exporters will crawl through the gates for at least ten or fifteen years, and most of them will die on this road. Now I say to all Turkey and to the world: Do you think you will inherit this kingdom, this power? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0251par0535	Thank you, Mr. Doğan Türkmen. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: Under the regulation, "a week's holiday and a national announcement of the municipality's 58th article of the Law on the Charter No. 2464 is expected to be lifted from the scope of the 25th Article of the Law on the Charter No. 6585. In Article 1 of the bill, the Week Holiday Law has been lifted from the scope of this clause, and according to this parallel arrangement, the additional financial burden of industrial enterprises has been removed from municipalities on weekdays every year as part of the week's work allowance. However, the allowance paid to the municipality to obtain a working permit for the weekend and municipalities provides a partial limit on the work of employers, employees, and weekends. Thus, it is partly preventing labor exploitation by employers to employ workers at their leisure. With this arrangement in the bill, the financial burden on the employer will be lifted, while labour exploitation of workers will deepen, municipal revenues will decrease. There is no feasibility report. Therefore, the situation in which this arrangement has been changed against the workers and the income created by the municipalities from this allowance is unknown, so the item must be removed from the text. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0252par0540	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0251par0541	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. A copy of the 2015 edition of the election laws has been sent to Mr. Mahmut Tanal. (HPP clapping in rows) I think there was a mix-up because they were both green.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0253par0545	There's a difference in tone.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0251par0546	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the head of the Laws and Decisions, Mr. Tanal, in the most recent form of legislation.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0253par0547	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit06spe0251par0548	But perhaps the President of the Laws and Decisions has sent this attention to test you for being a very careful MP. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-13sit07spe0251par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 464, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 477, which is ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be available after this, the decision is made that the bill and proposals will be held to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (June 14th 2017). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
