tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a geneorization, which has been suppressed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Kılıçdaroğlu, I tell you clearly, you're finished." Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu has openly threatened Mr. Kilicdaroglu by saying, "You're finished." In other parts of his speech, he tried to intimidate Mr. Kilicdaroglu with words that could not fit into political morality, which included slander in other parts of his speech. He continued his threats through social media. Criticism and violent debate among politicians are very natural to the functioning of democracy. It's unnatural that a person who has armed powers under his command should resort to insults and threats. In this regard, Interior Minister Süleyman did not fulfill the responsibility required by the Ministry of Nobles, but resorted to mafia methods. The Home Secretary's words are as much a confession to the plot against the CHP as it is to hatred and hatred. He is not an ordinary person who uses these expressions, but the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey. In this regard, the Home Secretary's words are not a simple threat, but an illegal attempt to instruct law enforcement. In these words, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has been made a clear target. Attempting to be designed by the ministry, where politics is antidemocratically bound, means the liquidation of democracy. For reasons declared above, we offer and propose the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution, 98, 99, 99, 99, of the Constitutional Council of the Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu, who has completely lost confidence in his responsibility to act in neutrality, law and rule of the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the law. CHP Group Deputy Chair CHP Deputy Chair It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council or group proposal, covering the day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be taken into consideration, will later be submitted to your approval. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Mr. İsmail Kahraman and the Parliamentary delegation along with him will visit Pakistan to attend the Parliamentary Presidents' Conference on Islamabad, under the 9th Article of the General Assembly on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2018 and the Central Management Act of 2016. Under the schedule, we'll be doing round four interviews today. The fourth round includes the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, Development Ministry, Turkey's Statistical Institution, Regional Development Administration Chairman of the Southeast Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Council of the Ovas Project, Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, Justice Ministry, Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Association of Labor Homes of the Tutuks, Turkey Justice Academy, Judges and Prosecutors Board of Justice and Prosecutors. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0002par0076	But the MPs aren't there, Mr. President, the budget is being turned around by 20 people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0001par0077	Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the fourth round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mr. Baki Simsek, Samsun MP Erhan Usta, Conium MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mr. Gülay Basci, Army MP Mr. Seyit Torun, İstanbul MP Mr. Lale Karabibık, Gaziantep MP Mr. Akif Ekici, Sivas MP Mr. Ali Akyıldı, Democratic MP Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt, Tokat MP Mr. Kadim Durmaz, Muğla MP Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan, Ankara MP Mr. Ali Haydar Hakdi, Çanakkale MP Mr. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Erdal Atash, İzmir MP Mr. Müslüm Doğan, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, İstanbul MP Mr. Celal Doğan, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş and Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; On behalf of Mr. Haci Osman Akgül, MP Mr. Sami Çakır, İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz, Aydın MP Mustafa Savaş, Erzurum MP Mr. Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu, Kopeli MP Mr. Cemil Yaman, Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu, Muş MP Mehmet Emin Yıldırım, Nevşehir MP Mr. Ebubekir Secretgider, Konya MP Mr. Muhammet Uğur Kaleli, Giresun MP Mr. Sabri Özturk, Bursa MP Mr. On behalf of the individuals, in favor of Kayseri MP Hülya Nergis; on the contrary, Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer. There will also be speeches on behalf of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Mr. Baki Simsek, Mersin Millekli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Lightning, your time is twenty minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0003par0089	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we've been on the road to Hakk for forty-eight years, we're on the side of the nation. We always aim for the prosperity and happiness of our people, and we continue to aim. Head up, belly full, happy tomorrow working, working hard, taking our steps accordingly. The subject of our politics is human. Then it is incumbent upon our necks to provide our people with no excuse, and also our spiritual work, our political duty. The late Peyami Safa says that politics is life itself. Dear MPs, of course, before I begin my remarks on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, I'd like to make an entrance to the Metropolitan City Law, which concerns the Ministry. All the people living in the city are disturbed by the Metropolitan Municipality Act; the mayors of the city are disturbed; the mayors of the district are disturbed; the citizens living in villages, cities, and people who have lost their rights are disturbed. After the budget, all political parties must consolidate the Metropolitan City Law and re-open the law, making the necessary arrangements for this law and to address the victims of our people here. We see it as an advantage that our Minister of Environment and Urbanism is a minister from municipalism and that he knows the troubles here very well. In this regard, with the government's necessary support, we'll reconfigurate the Metropolitan City Law and... Now, imagine that a city municipality will be responsible for the burial of a village 200-400km away from the city. Some days, we live, looking for a citizen from the village, saying: "We will dig a tomb, the municipality has no ladle." We are looking for the municipality; of course, a city municipality of 350-400km is responsible for the cemetery in the village. The transfer of such powers to the district municipality... has, unfortunately, dropped to a level of office under a new law. The budget of the mayorate of the capital city is higher than the budget of several municipalities for one science or road asphalt office heads. County municipalities can't produce services other than picking up garbage, collecting property taxes because there is no budget, there is no budget for these services. For him, the Metropolitan City Law has to be put on the agenda after the budget. Again, one of the most important issues that concerns our municipalities is the subcontractor law. With the subcontractor's law, many of the public workers will be recruited and over 400,000 employees will be recruited. Workers in municipalities, OSCEs and private administrations have been excluded from this scope. They're being taken to city companies, which has made the city workers very upset. The subcontractor law will arrive next week in Parliament. Let's all settle this once and for all. Now, we've passed the law, a week and ten days after the law comes out -- if it's available -- 50 of the workers working in the municipality have retired, 100 of them have retired, we'll get new workers, what will the municipality do? I'm asking you. What will the employee who's involved be based on? What rights will this benefit? The date to be placed here is now considered December 5th. What about the position of the workers who are going to take the job after December 5th? So let's not look for a day-to-day solution when we pass this law. As in the Metropolitan City Law, let's constantly extend, change history, repatriate the property tax, extradite the waste tax. Let's not do it this way, make a proper law, and let's not look at every institution in a different way, just as in the civil servants, as in 657. And about the mayors, about the mayors, about the mayors... think of a mayor, who can allow 30 or 40 staff in his own municipality to leave the country, but the mayor himself needs permission from the ministry to go abroad. We see an oxymoron here. So with the mayor's signature or the signature of a mayor who runs a major city or the mayor of a county, 30 or 40 men can go abroad, but the mayor can't go abroad without permission from the Ministry of Interior himself. We see injustice here. Again, with regard to the rights of mayors... many high-ranking bureaucrats take advantage of green passports, VIP services and pensions... but unfortunately, mayors who run 300-400,000 cities cannot benefit from many of these services. Regarding these, we expect you to defend the rights of our mayors as a Minister of Environment Urbanism from the mayor's office again. Of course, today's main agenda is the deed Kadastro. There are nearly 18,000 employees in the province of Kadastro General Directorate of Tapu. And the deed is really one of the most important institutions in the country for our people. But unfortunately, there are many regional directors, especially the General Manager of the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate, many of whom are acting as managers of the province and districts of Tapu Kadastro. As with many of Turkey's institutions, the Tapu Kadastroda has these tasks as well. You know, it's a lot faster to have these guys appointed and confident that you'll be able to do it before the red tape is blocked. The deed was a very useful service at the Kadastro. So today, without demand, the citizens were prevented from confronting the officer, and there were serious measures regarding corruption, bribery. The majority of the Tapu Kadastro employees are people who actually do their jobs without looking out for overtime. However, they need to be arranged for their rights as well. A lot of bureaucrats who don't work at the Tapu Kadastro have been transferred to Tapu Kadastro from other institutions that have nothing to do with Tapu Kadastro, and they've been given positions, positions, positions, and a lot of the bureaucrats at Tapu Kadastro, who are currently working, are struggling to change institutions. For him, especially according to the number of transactions he has performed, the Tapu Kadastro employees must be given a share of return capital, the deed cadastro will be attractive, and the people working at Tapu Kadastro will be given a deed as well as notars. The rights of the Tapu Kadastro employees must be protected by insuring financial errors after lack of intention. Of course, the main problem in Turkey after terrorism and unemployment is planning. Turkey, unfortunately, has not been well-planned in its time, has really used the last 40, 50 years very badly, and has become a country of distorted construction, concreteization. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism must set a serious budget for planning. With such approaches, Turkey will still take decades to plan. All of Turkey, agriculture areas, tourism areas, housing areas must be planned immediately. No matter how much money it costs, I mean, if you need TOKI to stop building three or five projects, a million-dollar condos. Let's transfer this budget to planning, all of us, and plan the whole of Turkey. Let there be no unplanned territory in Turkey, and let's plan things properly, change the law, change the zoning law. You've raised the share of Editing Partnership in Modern Urbanism from 35 per cent to 40 per cent; it's a right and proper decision, but 40 per cent can't even meet demand in areas where there's too much intensity in cities right now. Given the intensity increases, especially in urban centers, because many of our people have almost one car in every house, in many houses there are second and third cars. Traffic suffering is the biggest problem of cities right now, parking suffering is the biggest problem of cities, but unfortunately, we're making so many changes in regulations, we call it the law of justice, we pull it out, all the architects and engineers are trying to build projects. We call it the October Charter, we call it the December Charter, we change regulations all the time. Let's put the building law on the table after the budget, and let's put together a proper, understanding zoning law. Let every citizen who opens the Building Law look at the chapter on what he will do, and see clearly what is happening. I was part of their project work during the construction of two hospitals in my area. There have been three or four changes of regulations until the construction of the hospital started and finished. With the changes made by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization Law and with the changes made by the Ministry of Health's regulations... imagine, the foundation of a hospital is being laid down, construction is going on, sir, whether the room sizes are this big, elevator regulations have changed, so let's say, the parking structures have changed... so Turkey shouldn't be dealing with this kind of work in 2017, and everyone needs to stand behind this law after it's been changed. So there's no way we can solve these problems with constant regulation changes. Of course, in the last 35 years in the world, environmental problems have really arisen, along with industrialization and urbanization. There is also pollution in Turkey, unfortunately, in almost 80 provinces. I don't blame the government's distribution of coal without social aid in 2017, the distribution of coal in city centers. In 2017, if necessary, let's support our people's gas bills, support their electricity bills. The air pollution we experienced in the 1990s is nearing the same level again. So the government should give up this inferior distribution of coal, and especially in city centers -- in villages and cities, perhaps this practice can be continued, but it must be banned as immediate distribution of coal. We're also having a lot of trouble with welfare. Now, think about it: a city; it has no proper way; it can't bring its citizens proper drinking water, it can't organize its social donut fields, it can't solve a lot of the city's problems; it helps with supplies, it helps with coal; it goes, it tries to solve the problem of citizens, poor people. Everyone has to do their job. The job of the municipality is to solve the city's infrastructure problem, solve the drinking water problem, work for decent urbanization. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy should do it one-handedly and have control of it one-handedly. Now, imagine, in 2017, 10 million families in Turkey received social aid, 10 million families. If you think that there are 2 or 3 people in each family, 20 or 30 million people receive social benefits in Turkey; consider the state of the country. This is not something to brag about. In the coming years, the government must ensure that the number of people receiving welfare is reduced and that each person's assistance is increased, and they must work on it. Of course, TOKI does housing projects in many parts of Turkey. There's some really good stuff going on here. So today, really, in some areas, there are some good projects that have been done in recent years that are consistent with the identity of cities, with its texture, and I thank you for these projects. So today, the project at Nevşehir Avanos is actually the right project to do in some parts of Urbana, with its identity, with its texture. But in the past few years, the TOKI has a public housing project in Bursa, a housing project in Adana, so imagine that in a region with a temperature of 40 to 50 degrees [40 to 50 degrees], there have been three fronts covered with walls. TOKI should give up these projects, prioritize urban transformation, and that is the primary task of TOKI. If you give empty treasures -- who do you give them -- you can give them to any contractor and have a million dollars worth of housing built there. That doesn't require special skill, special skill. TOKI must devote all her time and time to urban transformation. Unfortunately, we haven't reached the desired level of urban transformation yet. We talk all the time, you know, we have to build about this much earthquake-resistant housing, because if there's an earthquake, there's about a million houses in Istanbul that need to be destroyed and rebuilt, but unfortunately we're slow to solve problems. So in the last 30, 40 years, we've turned many parts of Turkey, its truly natural wonder, into concrete. I mean, Mughal Pigeons; look at the sheep before it, look at its present state. Look at Ayder 15 to 20 years ago, and look at him now. Look at the state of Longgöl fifteen to twenty years ago, and look at its present state. So we need to get ahead of the concrete, the warped structure. Nature is for all of us, cities are for all of us. Let's not get political here. All politicians here, all people living in Turkey, have plagues, not just the government's plague. Protecting these cities is a priority for all of us, and we need to work towards it. I also want to talk about some of the problems I've been having in my area about the environment. Of course, studies of the nuclear power plant continue about Akkuyu (Akkuyu) in Mersin. We, the National Movement Party, are not opposed to building nuclear power plants. However, in a region where the sea, nature, tourism is so alive, the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant was really unpleasant for the environment, for tourism. Again, the cement factory that was built in Mersin Silifke Yeşilovacık, which was built in the sea, was not pleasant in terms of tourism. We've already submitted a motion to the thermal power plants that will be set up on the shores of Mersin, but we haven't received an answer yet. There are major disturbances in the region as well. To the shores of Mersin... which means today we can see the island of Mersin Silifke Dana, the island of Bossak, 8 to 10 meters deep in the sea, a paradise of the earth. But there are also disturbances in our region regarding the fish farms that will be set up here. If only there was a survey before such investments were made, if there was an investigation, if people wanted to, if they would... We say, "God bless you, from every investment in our country, anyone who nails a nail." In order for our people to make a living, to produce... we have to produce. But in a region with a 350km coastline that's so suitable for tourism, we're waiting for these fish farms to be built, and we're waiting for everyone responsible to raise their voice. Mr. Minister, of course it's about the Bank of Provinces... and the Bank of Provinces, all municipalities, they need to be able to benefit equally from their loans, they need to benefit from the grants. So not just the ruling party municipalities, but all the municipalities in Turkey should be able to benefit from these opportunities equally. Now, TOKI will do a study in Mersin. TOKI is sending a delegation from here. The delegation takes the head of the AK PARTI district or the head of the agency, goes on a trip to the beach. Now, for God's sake, what would those municipalities do if they were from the AK PARTY, not MHP? TOKI visited the municipality at first, looking at development plans from the municipality; that's the right thing to do. We're going to do a study here, where is the right investment, where do you suggest, what should we do? But unfortunately, the delegations from the TOKI are not even coming to the municipalities. Without stopping by the municipalities, there's a lot of wrong places being made, wrong choices being made. Now, you can call from here and ask any citizen who lives in Tarsus: Is it right or wrong to build a state hospital? Call 100 people, if he says 10/u, which is the right place to build a state hospital. I'll apologize to you on this stand. It's always a matter of getting off the hill, which is unfortunately wrong, and the area man is investing both as transportation and traffic in the city centers. So in these investments -- these are the municipalities of the Republic of Turkey -- we have to treat all municipalities equally, even though the political party is separate, with that understanding; that's the truth. In our district, there is a public hospital in Anamur, but two contractors have left work, and the third contractor is now in operation. These projects must now be completed immediately before they are transferred and presented to the service of the people of the region. I trust our Minister's good intentions, his statements on the Commission have really satisfied us, but the whole Turkish nation has really lost its grip on bureaucracy. I mean, there's a project to be done, but unfortunately, for months, years, the preparation of this project, our ministers, our Minister of Development, we're wasting a lot of time, even though we're working on it. A congressman's mandate has been four years; it's been two years; most of the projects that have been promised, unfortunately, we haven't been able to hit a pickax. The bureaucracy needs to pick up the pace. So if necessary, commissions can be set up in large cities, especially in the big city, in the province, in the governor's office, and more urgent decisions on investments can be made. Otherwise, sir, we'll get permission from the Ministry of Forestry. There'll be paperwork from there. We'll go to the Prime Minister, we'll follow him, there'll be a decision. After that, there's credit, there's financing, there's a tender, there's a tender process... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0004par0114	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0003par0115	And months, years, we're wasting time -- making certain arrangements about them -- the country doesn't have time to waste. They're really all in and out of focus, seven duvets united, playing games on our country, playing games on the Islamic world. There is no other country but the Republic of Turkey, which will take care of the United States of America and Israel in this region, where I, especially the Palestinian people, will stop the drama in Jerusalem, and the United States of America and Israel, who will become the gendarme of the world and vomit blood on the earth. At this point, our country has taken the necessary steps -- as a result of the initiatives of the President and Mr. President -- and the necessary decisions regarding Palestine have been made at the Conference of Islamic Co-operation. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked here. The Palestinian cause is our cause; it is the cause of all Turkish people, of the Islamic world. Sadly, many Arab countries did not provide the necessary support for Palestine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute your high council with these thoughts and feelings. I wish our budget to be a blessing to the country, to the nation, and to pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0005par0120	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The second speaker is Mr. Erhan, MP of Samsun. Mr. Master, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0006par0125	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Today we're discussing budgets for the Ministry of Development and the Turkish Statistical Agency. And I made a promise on behalf of the National Movement Party. I'm going to try to express my views on the budgets of our two distinguished institutions and their activities. Of course, myself, we're not used to the Ministry of Development -- I'm a former employee of the State Planning Agency, I'm an expert in the State Planning Agency; it's an institution that I've worked for for for twenty-six and a half years. I mean, I'm about halfway through the agency's history, and I've been in management for 15 years. Of course, the Ministry of Development budget can discuss all Turkey's issues, but we don't have time to talk about it. And, of course, I've expressed some issues in the negotiations on the entire budget, and I'll try not to fall back on them. So, for example, why didn't someone who knew us, who didn't know our first conversation, tell us about these issues? Why didn't Master Erhan tell us about them? For example, because I mentioned it on the first day, I want to sort out the issues that I wouldn't focus on today: the trust facility was the most important issue of the economy, the inflation, the issue of the rule of law, the issue of raising the institution's reputation, the issue of protecting reputation, the question of efficiency in Turkey, the economic security issue of funding, and I don't want to focus on the middle income trap and technology to get rid of this trap, and I don't want to get too much of this business, and I don't want to stop doing a lot of this day. Now, of course, the most recent and hot topic is the third quarter growth issue. In the third quarter, you know, there was an 11.1 per cent growth increase in the same period last year, a real increase. We all know base effect is important here. Although it does have a base effect, of course, a strong growth. But when you look at it seasonally corrected from the previous quarter, growth is 1.2. In fact, considering that the second quarter is 2.2, we have to say that growth is slowing down in the third quarter, in this sense. Of course, more than that, there are quality problems in growth, 6.9 per cent coming from consumption, and net exports are contributing to growth as of the quarters. In the next quarter, we'll probably face a rebalance problem, an economy that's moving fast towards an imbalance. Construction investments are exactly what we don't want. The subject of distortion in the resource allocation -- or rather, this is my point -- is the government's desire -- is apparently going through construction like this, and the growth model is still going through construction. The rapid increase here is, in fact, a clear economic blockage in terms of Turkey's economy. Now, of course, about the third quarter growth and the last growth figures, I shared a comprehensive note with the Minister, saying that there were about 30 pages of notes and graphics, and I shared with him on Tuesday something that we had our own estimates, our own evaluation, and today I just received a 10-page assessment of that. Of course, we haven't had much time to look at that assessment, but in short, when I look at the evaluation, I can say right away: Mr. Secretary, actually, the note confirms us, I'll tell you that. So in a lot of things, although what you're doing is an important indicator of what you're doing, it's not like we're going to be able to do it one-on-one anyway, and I'm going to be. So with one person, we can't do all the functions that TTUK does with two people, but we're trying to evaluate this growth data that TİK is doing with external data, with public data. Many institutions do it, academics do it, but when we do it here, in fact, I have to say that you have serious problems. Especially a few things... For once, it's the consumption of households... you know, 7 percent of growth comes from the consumption of households. For one thing, the explained data doesn't confirm this growth in any way, Mr. Secretary -- if you want, it's a long way to go -- there's no way to show the graphics of this, but it doesn't confirm that. When you model this, I don't think there's a lot of people in this household who can find a 23.9 percent increase in growth to contribute to 6.9% growth. The increase in construction investments is not supported by mortgages. Of course, it's not the only indicator, but it's an important indicator. Looking back, we see that the relationship between mortgages and construction investments has recently been broken. In that sense, when we look at it, I'd like to express that there is such a problem. Another thing: When you go into life -- I mean, normal citizens -- you don't feel much in a life of 11 percent growth. I don't think he believes much of this growth, considering how much the National Bank of Turkey believed in this growth, or the increase of interest would have to be at a much higher level, not 0.50. Of course, in my first day's talk here, I asked a question, "Is Turkey's economy being governed?" I actually think it's important. There is one thing, valued lawmakers: Now, there was a treacherous coup attempt in the country -- growth had already slowed down a little bit in the previous quarter -- growth slowed down. The government has taken a number of measures that will rightly increase growth -- the Credit Guarantee Fund, tax reductions, some of them -- to burden public finances and provide credit expansion. But these measures have been taken so far that what happens after that? Our public deficits are down by about two points. Our inflation has reached the highest levels of the last 14 years with the significant impact of these measures. After that, the heel of the cantar - 11 percent too high, crazy growth. For those who say it's too much, let's make an interest increase to limit them now. If you increase interest in this country, you can't reduce inflation." he said: "O my people! Who's going to fix this conflict now? There is no 11.1 per cent growth in Turkey, friends. So to defend this growth, on the other hand, is to defend the increase in interest, so let's see this. We can talk about this here for a long time. I can send all the paintings I sent to all the academics, to all the curious ones, to the Minister. We're here to... we've already expressed this to Mr. Secretary before we talk here, but I wasn't going to talk about it here today, but since the note that was sent to us wasn't meant to satisfy them, then part of them... otherwise we'd never be able to create a distrust of the government's data, and eventually we'd all be able to continue our work, using this data. Another problem, Minister, imports, exports... now, once in our multinational income series, and in these last quarter series, we have a serious deflactor problem. Now, what we call deflactors is inflation in a sense. Of course, because it's so technical, I don't want to be too boring there. The national income is going through the current prices, so it's going through the prices that happened that day, but the number that we call growth, serial, you apply a deflatizer to those current prices, and then you go from there to growth figures, to fixed prices, that's roughly what it is. Now, the deflatizers used here are often low, and they've always been used to pull up all the marginal growth. I'm not going to go into any more of this because I've lost a lot of time here. Another thing, I'll tell you, is that maybe we should show the Construction Cost Index at the construction site. Now, there's actually a problem with the construction detector. It's something like this: this blue line is the construction deflactor used by TÜİK. This orange line is the Cost Index of Building Construction -- I'm showing it to show it from the other side -- and the Hedonic Housing Price Index. Now, there's a relationship between the three of them in the past years, but then the housing price index goes up, building construction cost index stays lower. TIC prefers to use the low deflater, but in the last three quarters, it's something that's so high that it's starting to feel small in the last three quarters. This time TÜK is changing its mind, and this time it's using a low-income deflater. That's not gonna happen. There's a standard for something. Thus, when it suits you, the use of a deflatizer to use it when it suits you, harms the TÜİK (TİK) as well as the economy. Now, at the end of 2016, TÜİK (Turkey Statistical Agency) has made a series correction. I've expressed his assessments from this council bench, but because it's the first time it's come to our agenda with a budget fund, the new series is a broken series within itself. The new series has its advantages, but when you look at this new series, no one should compare 2015 to 2002, 1998. Now, when a series doesn't go back, it's already broken with other series, but it's a series that breaks in itself. Here, why? In 1998, we have a 2.4 per cent increase in national income, but in the last year, there is a 19.7 per cent increase in 2015. In fact, it's not just an increase, so there's a significant increase in national income. So the average correction in the 2010 section is 0.1; look, growth numbers are only 0.1 corrected, normal, of course there will be a change, but after 2010, growth numbers have been increased on average to 2.7 above the old series. Is that even possible? What kind of explanation is that? The explanation for this is that, after 2010, some of the national accounts are being done to strengthen them -- they're appreciated, we appreciate -- but there's a problem when you take it back. Back there, because it's pulled out of the macro, you go with a broken series in it. This needs to be fixed. Right here, by the way, Mr. Secretary, the State Planning Agency had a good book, the Ministry of Development, this 1950 series... a series of solutions to these serial fractures in part. This didn't come out after 2014, so I think it would be appropriate for the users to publish it as soon as possible. I mean, look at the growth rates, let me put it this way, in the old new series. Orange old series, blue new series. Look, we've seen this one-on-one over the past years, and then after 2010, growth in the new series suddenly bounces. These are not things that can be easily explained, unless, of course, if there's an explanation, Mr. Secretary will share his thoughts about it with us. Now, there's something going on with these exports, these import deflats -- I'm not going to go into his technical difficulties -- exporting from domestic value to UNE, that's true, but because it wasn't done on the import side, and since it was only done after 2010, look, this growth -- it doesn't exist on the set that I sent you -- we did this work after that -- and it's just a shock to growth in 2015, like 0.9; it's like 0.8 in 2013. Look, life is the same life, we're the same life, we're the same currency, we're the same income, we're all the same, but a methodology change changes your growth one point at a time. Now, e, we need to look at this, so I think we need to express that, then, in comparison with these comparisons, it has to be done, or we'd be misleading the public otherwise. Now, of course, I'll tell you one thing about this national income issue: this is our Syrian guests, they have consumption, they have production, they work, they work, the government spends money on them. They're all in national income accounts, but since they're not in the population, they're not in the per capita income. Now, when we include the Syrians, we need to see once again that there's a change in income per person. And finally, about this third quarter thing -- I've also expressed this in my first day's talks -- of course, there's an increase in dollars, but in terms of dollars, there's 1.5 per cent reduction in the last quarter, and there's a 2.8 per cent reduction in income per person. This number of growths is a number of growths that quickly drive us away from the countries of the high income group that we're approaching, or rather a number of national incomes. I don't know how to evaluate such a national figure of income -- I mean, I don't know how to rejoice in the fact that there are great jobs being done. I mean, I don't think we should be happy with a result that drives us away from the high income group. Now, of course, the problems with the new national income series have suddenly been resolved. Read last year's mid-term programme, read the government declaration, read the development plan. Turkey has a domestic savings problem, we call it 14 per cent. All of a sudden, it's up 25 percent, up 11 points. Turkey has an investment problem. Turkey is investing only 19 per cent of national income. All of a sudden, sir, he's up 10 points, up 29, up 30. So now, okay, this could be it. Let's assume that this national income level, everything in this sense, is true, but we need to reflect it on policy documents and our jobs. Last time I said that when this national income level changed, Turkey lost its compass. I said that because we don't have a compass. I mean, all of a sudden, everything's changed. It's not the problem we know as a problem, it's the new problem. Well, then there's got to be a document. Now when you look at how much the new medium-term program will pay for it, unfortunately, it's far from welcome. Now, I think it's time for you to make some suggestions. For example, in terms of concreteization, we've now contributed a government contribution to individual retirement, right, 25 percent. Why did we give it to him? We said our savings were about 14 percent. So now savings are 25 percent. It's almost okay. I mean, it's still three to five points below developing countries, but we can't get that savings level anyway. Now the annual cost of 25 per cent of the individual pension contribution is $4 billion. You know, Mr. President says it's a quadrillion to make things clear, so I'll call it a quadrillion. It costs $4 quadrillion a year. So there's going to be 0.1-0.2 percent impact on saving from there. Why do I have to save 4 quadrillion liras... 11 points more by TİK, thank God. Then why should I spend $4 quadrillion a year on individual retirement? That's something to think about. This should be in the political documents. I can give you a lot of examples like this. That's the way to look at it. Here's the thing about saving: look, that's our savings. The blue ones are the old ones, they're going down, and now this is the new series. One more thing: Turkey is not a tribal state. No, it's not. We have a thousand years of government tradition, two thousand years of government tradition. Turkey has no savings before 2009, officially announced by TÜİK, friends. What's going to happen now? Who's going to match this series, Mr. Secretary? So what do we do? Now, what savings am I going to use in 2008? In the new series... there's no rest of it. That's not possible. How do we use this? I need to take a look at this. It's the same thing with other investments, other things. For example, we were saying that the central management budget's interest-free spending is going up, so they need to be brought down. Here's the graph. What years? 2004-2015. For the Minister to see... Now, here's the old serial blue one. Look, extracurricular spending. The budget's extracurricular spending is increasing, so the public's share is too high, and the public needs to discipline it. E, expenses are going down in the new series. Well, now, then, we need to take a look at our policy sets accordingly. So it's the same thing in taxes. We were saying that in the old series, taxes are increasing in national income. E, now, he's going down. Well, I guess we should take a look at this. Then we need to change all our policy sets accordingly. Is there anything related to this in the new Midterm Program? No. We call it the new Midterm Program. So, in the program, short-term projections, we're saying we're pretty good at guessing. When we say 5,5 today, 6.7... A growth rate of 1.5 to 2 points will not be revised anywhere in the world, not after two months. We call inflation 9.5; expectations poll 10.7; Central Bank 9.8; November 13. It's going to be a little bit of a base effect in December, but what you call 9.5 is going to sound like 12. Is that a guess? Cari, you said $39 billion off the table, it's going to be open for about $43 billion minimum. So, the trade, Mr. Secretary, that's a very important thing. I can't get into these things because I'm on a tight schedule. But the trade is going down from 2016. This is against Turkey. So we export more goods, we import less. There's a trade line that's growing against us. This is a matter of great importance. We need to stop bragging about the public finances. So much money for education, so much for RD. So, what happened? What's the result? The PISA results are obvious. Sir, in other things, the results are obvious in each of them. So we have to give up the bragging work, saying, "We're ruined. " The share of public investments in national revenue is 4.9 per cent in 2002, while there is now 4.2; there is a decline here. Cari, I'm afraid I can't get into the open issue. One more thing I'm gonna do, and then I'm gonna move on to corporate issues. Starting in 2009, a project was launched to make Istanbul a financial centre. I'm not talking about the construction project in Ataşehir, beyond that, the tax system, that and that. The State Planning Agency was the co-ordinator of this project. So I was there from the start, co-ordinator until the day I left because of the election. We, at the time, did, of course, a thorough study with our expert friends in planning. There's this Global Financial Centers Index. When that project started, Istanbul entered 72, to the Financial Index. Later in our work, we raised Turkey to the 42nd place in March 2015. So, after the 42nd row, a descent started again, and Turkey started at 78... six steps lower than it had started, and 36 digits fell in two and a half years. Of course, I left here when I was 42. I don't want to say, "I don't want to connect it," but I need to look here and see why it's happening. Now, I can't get into the employment issue, but I have to say that there's been a strong job increase, but other problems, other problems in employment, we have to ignore. Mr. Secretary, valued MPs, the State Planning Agency is an important institution. The State Planning Agency was massacred in 2011. This has to be fixed. This has to be fixed. I think everyone at the Department of Development feels the same way about it. In particular, in the new system, he must be connected to the presidency. There are some burdens that take the State Planning Agency to the Ministry that shouldn't be in the planning process, that the State Planning Agency should get rid of all of them, and we'd like to see a State Planning Agency that's much more involved in macroeconomics. Now, TİKİK is an important institution... concerning TİKİK. I told you in my first speech, this custody issue has to end, including the president, 36 of the 50 top executives run it with power of attorney. However, it is an institution of scientific and technical autonomy in the 17th Amendment. I can't imagine autonomy in a place with all this power of attorney. Now, other than that, I have a few suggestions for producing more quality statistics. For one thing, the issue of information technologies is a subject that should be on the agenda of the TÜİK (TİK). He needs to collect data using more information technologies. For example, it can do this especially in food through supermarkets. The statistics demanded by international organisations, as well as national statistics that will shed light on the country's governance and policy development, must be produced. The administrative record is important. There's been a lot of distance from administrative records, and at the Statistical Council meetings, we've been going on and on as planning. However, we need to increase administrative use not only in business statistics, Mr. Secretary, but also in household statistics. There is unemployment, housing, income, salary, wages, very serious data, but none of this data is being used as a major part of the data in the ministries, other than business statistics. If there is a problem here, if we have to make law on opening these data to TİKİK, let's make law on it, but TÜİK will have to use these statistics. But while he's using these statistics, he needs to think that administrative records can be difficult, and he needs to use them by analyzing them. In that sense, I propose that an analysis agency be established in TÜİK. Statistics don't come the way they do, they don't come from people who make statistics that are compatible with each other.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0007par0158	He's making interns count, he's starting to blow up a little bit.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0008par0159	Mr. Master, please complete it. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0009par0161	If you're going to give a minute to the five-minute speakers, when we do a linear ratio, you're going to have to give me another four minutes, but, Mr. President, I don't know how you're going to behave. Or five-to-one, twenty-to-one, not so much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0008par0162	Speak and we'll see, Master.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0009par0163	Now, I mean, the status of TÜİK (TİK) needs to be raised. TIC is an important institution, my friends. IT's important to think about it. I work in TÜİK. We need to bring TÜİK (TİK) to the level where everyone who works in TÜİK will be proud. In this sense, his position is in protocol in the 70th row; let's correct it, correct the problems of the 4/C (C) people, correct the problems of the experts. With a healthier statistic, we can make a healthier policy. That's all there is to it. It's a country-ville thing... so the city law is out, we've got the countryside. Yeah, the TÜİK would have to ignore that, it's an administrative division. So, whatever the definition of the field is, it needs to be done on a global scale, on a literary scale, by going from that definition to that definition. Now, as there's no separatism... which means we should be moving it to a much more, in fact, the local community, but not even the segregation of the country remains in Turkey. This is important. I've brought up the agricultural statistics issue before. There's a serious problem here. Inflation, we really need to use information communication technologies a lot better. From the supermarket to the bar code system... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't want more than a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0010par0168	Mr. Master, please complete it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0009par0169	Thank you. It's important. We've been talking about these price index issues. The service manufacturer price index is also a technical issue, but friends know - they need to be produced. Just as we did in exports, imports need to produce a price index beyond the Imported Unit Value Index. Regarding labour market statistics, the survey method for household labour market statistics should also be supported by administrative records and broadcasts must be carried out again in the province. The search for revenue distribution and statistics on poverty should increase sample diameters, supported by administrative records. The Statistical Council needs to increase its efficiency. Other than that, we need a review of TlC communications strategies, and in this frame, I, with much better data, much better policies... if there's such a need, we'll use data to develop politics, but data on one side, politics on the other side, if there's no connection, then you can maintain the system in this way. I have nothing more to say. I salute the General Assembly with the hope that the budgets will be good and good luck.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0011par0175	Thank you, Mr. Master. The third speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Mr. Kalay, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0012par0180	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of KOP, GAP, DAP and DOKAP Regional Development Administrations. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. Today, almost everyone has a specific opinion on the word "moving," and the goal is to raise the welfare level of both the country and the members. Development is always handled financially, and plans and programmes are laid out on the basis of financial evaluations. While investments are being made for financial development, the lack of spiritual importance to the human element to operate them affects the efficiency of material development. Our ability to become a fast and balanced country is closely related to the importance of spiritual development. Spiritual development is the spirit of material development. It is not possible to build up, nor to maintain unity and unity by protecting this beautiful land. It is our national and spiritual values that make us what we are, what keeps us together as a nation, the yeast of our unity and unity. Our national and spiritual values have been embalmed by figures such as Hodja Ahmet Yesevi, Haci Bekmeteli Veli, Yunus Emre, and Mazlana. We have to live with a strong sense of history, culture and civilization among generations. Their legacy offers us unique opportunities for national unity and spiritual development. The 744th Anniversary of Vuslat, which is held between December 7th and December 17th in Konya. This year's theme of events has been defined as "Sister Time." I truly believe that the brotherhood, peace, reconciliation, and life together that we seek and deeply feel the need for is hidden in the ulterior messages of the Almighty. The good Lord is an architect of the heart, an altar of love and loyalty, more to be known, more to be known. As long as we absorb, understand, and take this venerable elder as a sacred relic, they will not be able to infiltrate our nation, nor will they find opportunities to seek wicked and crippled intentions. In the 744th year of his prophecy, I reminisce with respect and gratitude of the Lord, and with mercy and prayer I bear this high morality, which sees eternity as a marriage. I pray to God that Shebiarus is a cause of good and good. We expect everyone from abroad and abroad for the ongoing vuslat anniversary events and the Shebiarus ceremony on Sunday (December 17th). Dear lawmakers, regional development policies and projects conducted within this scope are of great importance to our country, where regional development differences are high. The strategy document for national goals for regional development was systematically introduced in 2015. The Regional Development National Strategy is one of the key steps to co-ordinating regional development, a framework document that determines basic strategies for regional development. However, the strategy document did not include detailed and concrete policy proposals, nor did concrete statements be used. Regional plans are being prepared and implemented in Turkey to reduce the gaps in regional development and implement regional development. In this scope, KOP, DAP, DOCAP and GAP projects are the most important applications of policies to reduce regional development differences. The GAP Regional Development Administration, established in 1989, has been doing an important job for 28 years, but since the GAP project cannot be completed, the administration's mandate is permanently extended. The GAP Master Plan plans to water a area of 1,84,000 hectares. But so far, the watering area is at a level of 503,000 hectares. Watering investments need to be speeded up, and the land waiting for water is to be brought to water as soon as possible. The KOP, DAP and DOKAP Regional Development Administrations were established in 2011 with limited tasks and powers and five years of work, but were unable to reach their goals until the end of 2019. Six years later, the administrations haven't even been institutionalized yet. Nothing has been done in the 64th Government Action Plan, however, in the first six months of 2016 to improve the institutional structure of regional development management processes and the development of staff structures. The issue has been reassembled as a precaution for the 2018 programme. Employees working in regional development management strive to perform their duties under difficult circumstances. In these staff shortages, it is important to employ sector experts. The need for personnel is sought by temporary staff from other institutions. Regional development administration employees are underprivileged. There is a huge difference between regional development management, both of which belong to the Ministry of Development, and development agencies' rights to their employees, and there is a chasm for wages. The arrangements for improving the institutional structure of regional development management, the development of management processes and personnel structure must be made immediately, and the rights of personnel must be improved. Important resources for regional development projects have been earmarked. The laws adopted in 2008 and 2009 envisioned the allocation of resources from the Unemployment Insurance Fund and privatisation revenues to exclusive investments in economic development and social development. The government immediately implemented the GAP Action Plan for 2008-2012. After a long time, KOP, DAP, DOCAP and the second GAP Action Plans were announced in 2015, covering 2014-2018. With action plans, 53.4 billion liras were earmarked for GAP, $21 billion for DAP, $10 billion for DOCAP, $9.9 billion for KOP for five years. Last year our provinces of Nevşehir, Yozgat, Kırşehir, and Kırıkkale were included in the area of Kırıkkale, which consists of Konya, Karaman, Aksaray, and Niğde. In this respect, the KOP Action Plan (KOP Action Plan) must be added to the KOP project's stockpile of projects aimed at increasing the new and allocated resources, especially for bringing water from other basins to the region. In last year's budget talks, the Minister of Development said they would revisit KOP, DAP, DOKAP Action Plans, but so far no changes have been made. Valuable lawmakers make up 48.7 per cent of the total area of the country's area of the country's KOP provinces, which have 19.5 per cent except meadows and mera. Although the KOP region has so much farmland, water resources are limited, only one-third of the land can be watered. Konya, Karaman, Niğde, and Aksaray, of the KOP provinces, have 17 percent of the waterable areas of our country, including a small portion of Ankara. However, only 4 per cent of our country's water supply is found in this basin. Therefore, new projects are desperately needed to bring water from the outer basins. The Blue Tunnel is a great project, but we need new projects to meet the water supply of the Plains of Iconium. The Toros still have opportunities to be evaluated. There must be ways of bringing water from Ermenek Dam, from Manavgat Tea, from Fırat Karasu, from Kızırmak, from Sakaryah, from Sakarya, and the need for water from the KOP region. Studies by the DSI on the Ermenek Tea and Manavgat Basin, the Great Bridgechay and Aksu Tea to bring water should be completed immediately and projects should be put into the program. The regulation on the Protection and Management Plans of Water Basins, published in the Official Gazette of October 28, 2017, has not been referred to as a reference to agricultural water use, nor has a clear case of inter-sea water transfer been established, nor has the importance of the country's food needs and food strategy been taken into consideration. Without water transfer between basins, the basin-based water plan will be a source of persecution and persecution for Central Anatolian and KOP provinces, particularly Consortia. With this reputation, studies on water law enforcement should be considered not only geological data, but also all engineering services, community sociology and environmental impact assessments, water management should be considered nationally, an approach that will allow extra water in a technically possible basin to transfer between basins. The threat of drought facing the KOP region indicates that in the coming years there may be a large shortage of watery agricultural areas. Therefore, it is also important to ensure sustainable use of the region's water supply. To ensure effective use of land and water resources and sustainability, the collection of agricultural land must be completed, all areas in the region must be quickly transferred to pressurized irrigation systems, the old irrigation infrastructure that causes dehydration must be upgraded, the drought must be fought more, the erosion must be controlled, and the wooding efforts must be further supported. Dear lawmakers, despite our country's different incentives, the incentive measures have not kept the goals set so far, but the different bodies have always been mowed in different shirts. It is clear that the current incentive system has not contributed much to reducing the difference in development between regions. In our country, we have been given various incentives, however, and we have given encouragement, and there is no assessment of the outcome. The benefits of the incentives, the economic contribution, the benefits of what is expected at the end of the incentives, and if this is not achieved, the consequences of them should be clearly defined. Otherwise, if you're encouraged to throw money into a wishing well, resources are wasted, and that's what happens. The incentive system also creates instability between regions, creating competition among neighbouring provinces. For example, why would an investor choose the provinces of Iconya, especially the provinces of Iconya, when he would have more incentives right next to him? There should be no evaluations based solely on the borough centers. Today, districts are losing blood, the condition of beautiful villages and towns is miserable because of the migration, and they're turning to ruin. The entire city law, contrary to what is alleged, has accelerated the migration. Our cities have difficulty carrying population density due to migration. The socioeconomic development of cities and counties must be redefined and reviewed by the incentive system. The potential of each residential unit must be assessed by focal, vanguard and support sectors, sectoral and narrow area incentives. The government has prepared a new programme for the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region to reduce the difference in development between the regions. On September 2, 2016, Mr. Prime Minister announced some incentive measures as part of the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian Centres for Attraction Programme, Investment and Support Movement. The scope of the charm centers programme, its source, and its basic issues of support are determined by the Turkish Cypriot No. 678, published in the Official Gazette, November 22, 2016. In the programme envisioning private investment incentives in 23 counties, investors submitted support applications from 24 January to 27 February 2017. A total of 92 billion euros and investment applications for 365 thousand jobs have yet to be decided. Investors have been waiting for the results of their application since February. The continuation of the process also put new investments in the already-needed region on hold. During last year's budget talks, Mr. Finance Minister also announced that there was an estimated $12 billion in funding in the 2017 budget for this programme. Interestingly, in this year's budget talks, neither the Prime Minister nor the Finance Minister nor any other concerned ministers have made any statement, and the programme has not even been promised. At a press conference on September 29, 2016, Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Bahçeli warned that while the programme the Prime Minister has announced is generally supportable, this programme must be prepared, revised with this dignity, and be met with the objective, otherwise the programme is doomed to fail. He also sincerely proposed that the proposed programme be discussed as part of agricultural cities or central villages projects, which have been revised as a model of the East and Southeast Anatolia Development Programme and rural development centres, according to modern developments. These warnings and suggestions have not been taken into account, unfortunately. As a result, the government is undermining the Charming Centers Program. No one has the right to give the citizen great hope and then let him down. It is now said that programme incentives will be changed and its implementation will be transferred to the Ministry of Economics. The Attractive Centers Programme, which creates a good investment atmosphere in the region, should be revised and implemented immediately without losing its charm, as well as the proposals of the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers should basically establish attraction centers in all parts of our country in order to reduce the difference in intergalactic development. In our country, sectoral maps of the resources and potential of the region should be mapped, supporting sectors that have high potential and superior potentials in each region, making certain regions sectoral attraction centers. Plans for spatial development in our country must be prepared, new centers for global competitiveness. Apart from the Marmara basin, a new focus must be set in Anatolia, such as Iconia, Kayseri, Mersin, Gaziantep. The policies and measures that will be implemented in this scope will make a significant contribution to the development of the country and to reducing the differences in intergalactic development. Turkey has a new opportunity to retake Anatolia. The investment of domestic and national automobiles that excite all of us today must be made to Anatolia. The most suitable place in Asia Minor is one of the central cities, Asya. In our country, the province is the largest metal processing capacity that has become the engine of the automotive sub-industrial industry. The cognac has become a very important centre in the world with quality products in automotive. All parts of the automobile can be produced in the name of the automotive. As Iconium, we want to host Turkey's first domestic automobile factory, brand the Turkish-made car Anatolian. The Iconian Organised Second Zone has announced its readiness to allocate land the size required for domestic automobile investment, to create all the necessary infrastructure. There is an even greater potential for defence industry in Iconium. A hunting rifle has been produced for over a hundred years in the district of Beyşehir. The use of all domestic raw materials, qualified labor force, high added value and export-directed production is involved. The world exported about $1 billion in shotguns in 2016, and Turkey ranked second with $138 million. The large majority of our hunting rifle exports were carried out by companies in Beyşehir. A number of studies are being conducted by MEVKA on hunting rifles and military weapons production and development in Beyşehir Grapelı and Küglu. As part of the National Infantry Rifle Project, the region must be assessed and integrated into the defence industry for the production of MPT-76 and other weapons. The area must also be established in a gun-inflicted industrial zone. We expect to be supported and implemented under the 2018 programme by the Institute for Development of Arms Industry Education and Development, proposed by Selçuk University to the Ministry of Development. I wish the budgets would be a blessing for our country and our nation, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0013par0208	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the fourth and final speaker is Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0213	I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on the budgets of the St. Turkish nation, respected lawmakers; Justice Ministry, Judges and Prosecutors' Board, Justice Academy Chairman, Criminal Execution Institutions and Laboratory Institutions. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly, you respected MPs, and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens. I hereby send my love, greetings, greetings to our members, our bureaucrats, our judges, our editors, our editors, our clerks, our bailiffs, our execution guards, all the members of our army of justice. Respected lawmakers, since we've discussed the justice budget, we'd like to first share our thoughts on the concept of justice and justice. Yes, basically, as I tried to sum up in the Plan and Budget Commission, human beings were created first. After man was created, the first legal case occurred among their first children, so to speak, between Abel and Cain. And then the search for justice began. After a long time, the state began to emerge, and in its modern sense today, the state came out much, much later. This is the most fundamental truth that we can be sure will remain valid in the context of the relations between these two, as well as today. The principle of justice has been established. Yes, justice is the foundation of property. While the constitutional lawyers described the duties of the state, political scientists said several things about it. Yes, it's possible to protect the nation against threats from outside, and then to make sure that people live in security, peace, and security within, health, education, and many of their services, although the government can count on many tasks, all of which must be raised under a headline, perhaps it's possible to say that it is justice. In order to ensure the safety of one's nation, when a state does the services of its people, such as education, health care, and social security, but if it acts fairly, it will fully perform those services; no, if it does not act justly in doing these services, there is no way to express that those services are being carried out literally. It must be because of this importance that there are people on one side, who have been trying to put dynamite on the foundation of property, on the basis of state justice, on the other side, who are trying to protect, protect, strengthen the foundation of the state, and I think it's a fight that will continue until the end of the days of mankind as old as human history. Yes, indeed, we experienced one of the most important examples of these struggles once again in the process of the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, followed by a traitorous coup attempt on July 15, 2016. This process was primarily focused on justice and law. At the September 12, 2010 referendum -- I've done a series of tests here -- no one remembers the dozens of different substances -- but there were two important articles -- one of which was to change the structure of the Constitutional Court, and the other was to change the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. So, unfortunately, it was the basis of that constitutional referendum, and despite all the right warnings, despite all the warnings of the Nationalist Action Party and our Mr. President before the test was broken, before it was broken, first, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and then, in a whole system of justice -- unfortunately, I'm telling you in a manner of speaking -- except for the fact that it was invaded. Following the conspiracy cases, the efforts of the state to design politics through the judiciary, the 7 February 2012 MIT crisis and the continuing, the state crises that we are able to express so clearly today, and finally, this process resulted in a treacherous coup attempt by Turkish nation, one of the greatest betrayals of a state's mind since 2014, in which the spirit of unity has begun in the judiciary and has been in a very powerful condition, and has been cornered in a very strong manner. Bombs were dropped from the roof of this Grand Assembly, the Gazi Assembly, the Turkish state was tried to invade, the Turkish nation tried to turn against each other in civil war. And in such a process, we've seen once again how important justice and judgment are. There should be no doubt that such an important notion of justice and judgment should be made important to the cognitive, and in that direction all its needs and all its activities, especially its budget, should be fulfilled in that direction. In fact, as a result of the climate of reconciliation in our country right after July 15th, we established a mini Constitutional commission with three representatives of the three political parties as a common public name, and we did a judicial work on all the grounds that I mentioned in the mini Constitutional commission; justice, law-oriented work, and by which we adopted an important agreement in the 7th Articles, but unfortunately, we have been able to focus on the Constitution as well as on the Constitution, which we were able to bring to a satisfactory consensus on that day in the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors. In the amendments to the Constitution on April 16th, we made a significant emphasis on the neutrality of the judiciary by adding nineth amendments to our Constitution. The decisions of the Supreme Military Court are beyond the jurisdiction of the 125th Article of our Constitution. We have expanded the scope of the judiciary by removing the joke from the scope of the judiciary. In Article 142, we have ensured that there will be no military courts other than disciplinary courts; in Article 146, a new structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall be established under the name of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. With these changes, in essence, we have made fundamental changes to the judicial system, along with fundamental changes to our government system and governance, and just as important as these. Now, at the end of such a process, we are faced with a vast truth, as is the foundation of justice, the property, the state. In such a process, we faced a grave truth, as the trust in justice and judgment has been reduced to 11 percent. It is also a fact that important and positive steps have been taken to eliminate this grave truth. In particular, I say again: The spirit of unity, which has emerged from 2014 and we see as a product of the state's mind, is very important for this, but along with all these truths, there is another truth that we cannot solve all the problems of our justice and our judicial system. And I would like to present to you at the next stage of my speech the basic issues of our judicial system and our justice, and our proposals for solutions to them. In order to solve these problems, we have to improve our constitutional and legal infrastructure above all else. In particular, we have to conduct very sensitive, meticulous, and as should be done in all our legal infrastructure work, not limited, especially in the laws of compliance that stem from our referendum. After solving legal, constitutional infrastructure issues and taking them to a certain stage, but as important as that, we have to solve all the problems of our judicial, justice staff. Really, if we want to establish justice, first of all, we have to solve this issue. When we look at this in the context of headlines, for example, we think that we can take a significant step towards the rights of our court staff by creating a class of justice services, but if we can't do this right away, and again, we have the rights of our legal staff in our judiciary, and we have an offer of law, which is a very important burden in the judiciary, and we have the right to move on to the class of our executives in the last term. For the conclusion of these righteous demands of our bailiffs, all around 5,000 of them, Minister, I assure you, not even tomorrow, but tonight's speech, the bailiffs are now awaiting good news. Let me get this straight. Our lawyers -- yes, I'm a lawyer, Mr. Secretary -- are a lawyer, and we have a lot of lawmakers on the General Assembly right now -- they have major issues. We have to solve these problems. In all of this...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0015par0222	There's a lot of you as lawyers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0223	Naturally, we are many, and may Allah increase our numbers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0015par0224	She was beautiful, too.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0225	Among them, our lawyers, especially our public defenders, have a very important but small request, especially for an additional 3600 indicators. Regarding compensations, additional funds, I think they're easy to solve. We will certainly support our Minister of Justice's efforts in this direction with the Minister of Finance.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0016par0226	What about the engineers?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0227	Well, let the engineers present them, Congressman. Now, once we're done with all this...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0017par0229	Blue passport, green passport...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0230	Mr. Tanal, we can't have all these problems here in the meantime. Once we've dealt with these personnel demands, we'll have to resolve the physical problems of our judiciary. Look, our Supreme Court today, unfortunately, serves under poor physical circumstances. We're going to have to move our Supreme Court to a stable settlement. The Ankara Courthouse, unfortunately, is in a very disorganized state, where lawyers are running around, where judges, prosecutors, court staff are working hard. We have to figure this out. The State of Emergency Commission has to distinguish between right and wrong, the guilty and the innocent, and their righteous demands on this matter must meet their expectations. Due to all these prisoners and all these prisoners, there are also significant problems in our Department of Corrections and the Prisons and the Employment Association. Unfortunately, the fulcrum ratios are way out of line. Prisoners sleeping in shifts, prisoners, and guards trying to operate under very difficult circumstances in this equation. We have to solve all their problems. Turkey's Justice Academy... in establishing the judiciary, of course, makes very important decisions with our prosecutors, judges, and especially with the July 15th process, there was a significant gap in the expulsion of thousands of judges, prosecutors, or traitors in those robes. Although this gap has been tried to fill substantially, it is certain that it still lacks, but as we solve these quantitative problems, we also need to address the quality issues, which is the way to strengthen the work of the Academy of Justice. I'd like to make this call on this occasion. We call on our judges, prosecutors, who are currently in our Academy of Justice, who have been in training before or who will continue after this: our judges, our prosecutors, our judges, our prosecutors, are the most important task to solve the problem of trust in the judiciary, to make justice the basis of property again. It's a huge responsibility, and while that responsibility is being carried out, our judges, our prosecutors, owe no one, no one, no institution. Our judges, our prosecutors only owe the Turkish state, the Turkish nation and justice, and we expect that debt to be paid. Congressmans, I've just stated that our Council of Judges and Prosecutors has taken on a new structure, along with the latest amendment to the Constitution. It's not just one of our judicial and justice systems, but perhaps one of our government's most strategic institutions. Whatever problems he has, he needs to be resolved quickly; better, better, better, better; his staff, for example, has demands for the rights of the Judges and Prosecutors' Board inspectors; they need to be resolved quickly; their physical problems need to be resolved. As I approach the end of my remarks, members of lawmakers, I'd like to make a point. In particular, there have been some assessments in our judicial community recently that some changes to the high judiciary will be made by issuing a new ruling on a new rule of law in our judiciary. Look, we're warning you from here with great and good intentions: we've reduced the number of members in the high court by a law that we removed before July 15th -- perhaps the other one is unique -- that Mr. President had to approve after 15 days of coup attempt. It hasn't been a year and a half since. Now, around 100 high-profile members have been appointed to the Supreme Court, around 15 to the State.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0018par0237	With your contribution.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0238	Look, we know where our contributions are, what they're referring to, and everyone who needs to know knows. Congressmans, this matter is extremely important. We don't find such a change in high judgment right today. While important cases on the anti-terrorism axis continue, especially the PKK, there will surely be movement from the chiefs of the terror tribunal on the platforms, from the prosecutors. There will be suitors, resentments, resentments, first-degree actions within their courts because of those who have gone, and they, not only in their own way, will be able to bring down our entire judicial system once again, with the decision that will have to come out, but with the decision that will have to come out. Not just our judges, not our prosecutors, but their families, their children, will be affected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want an extension, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0019par0242	Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0014par0243	So what we're saying, lawmakers, is that this arrangement is wrong, but if it has to be done today, it's wrong to do it today, after the counterterrorism cases are over. When it is done, however, it must not be removed from driver's license, integrity, and justice, as always and always. For example, 17 years should not be reduced to lower terms. The spirit of unity and the state must not be destroyed in judgment. With these feelings and thoughts -- our Minister's first budget -- I pray to God that our Justice Ministry's budget is good. I salute the General Assembly, you respected MPs, and our nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens once again.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0020par0247	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Congressmans, we now move on to the speakers of the Republican People's Party Group. First speaker, Mr. Bursa MP Tulips. Your time is seven minutes, Mr. Carbage. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0021par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to address the Ministry of Development. But when I say development, I can't help but mention it. Imagine that in the early years of the republic, from the Battle of Salvation, poverty, poverty, and in those first years of the republic, there was only a budget surplus in the ten years of 16 years, there was a budget surplus in the ten years of 16 years, and in another figure, you see, after 1930, there was a steady increase in the current rate. Let's not forget that. Now, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about TIC. TÜİK has made a series change, moved to new series. It's a little more difficult to compare numbers with new series. So let's see what TÜİK has done: once it's moved to the new series, its methodology has changed, its survey questions have changed, they use the weights and data sources of different sectors in the accounts. The change of polling questions has been very effective in the results, which I mentioned in my speech here. Now, what else did they do? Here's the thing: government data actually comes from the Treasury, but these are tax returns figures. Again, slowing down the economy, changing the method of computing economic data, unfortunately, has to be veiled, so we can't see the real data anymore. Let me give you an example of this: the growth rate between 2012-2016 is doubled by the new series, doubled by the new series. For the previous 2019, this connection was not maintained, so your comparisons to 2009 are in vain in the series in which there was a disconnect. There's such a dissonance. Again, another point, what is it? Nearly 4 million of the population of 80 million are Syrian and immigrants. All their expenses and income, unfortunately, are not reflected in the numbers. That's a very different amount of per capita income, and that's where the error comes from. At the same time, the changes in employment, industry and foreign trade numbers don't match the growth data, I'm afraid, precious lawmakers. Now, what did TIC do? He pulled a rabbit out of the hat, explained a growth rate. Okay, good, in numbers, purely beautiful. Look, right now, there's the highest inflation in 14 years, the highest debt figures. The interest rate in developed and developing countries has risen to 15 per cent of us in between 1 per cent and 3 per cent. The unemployment is in double digits. Direct capital entry has declined, and there is a current financing structure, which is funded by 4/5 with hot money. With the support of the Credit Guarantee Fund, the doping was supported by a $210 billion figure, and machine equipment investments increased. Right now, for this year, you're thinking that closing the current deficit is not a problem, you're saying it's a trick to drive. Right now, $210 billion needs to go in and out so he can maintain the current deficit. Inflation, by the way, is 13 percent, and that's just what it looks like. But what happened? The rabbit came out of the hat and the TIC announced 11.1 per cent. I'd like to make a comparison: Between 2002 and 2007, there was a growth in this country. Yes, you're actually very pleased with it, of course we'd like it, but there was already a global capital release in the world that was so important that all the countries were growing, and Turkey grew, okay, it grew. Now, there's also growth between 2010-2017, but there are significant differences between the two growths. Now I want to make it clear to you that we can see some real numbers. Dear lawmakers, there was growth between 2002 and 2007, but the core inflation was 4.8. There was growth between 2002 and 2007, but the proportion of foreign debt to national income was 36 per cent, and at that time it was funded by at least half the current deficit directly. Now, there's also growth between 2010-2017, but core inflation isn't 4.8, it's 12 percent. The external debt rate, not 36 per cent like those dates, is 51 per cent and from the outside, not direct investment, but the quality of financing of the current deficit has been compromised, is at risk, and -- how much -- 4/5 of it can be covered with hot money. See, that's why growing up is growing signs, precious MPs. We have this stability: you know, we have this expression called the fragile five. The fragile five had five countries last year, and so did we. Last year, four countries in the fragile five have been replaced, this year they are no longer, their condition has improved, but we are steadily continuing on the fragile five. Well, we call it development, we call it growth, but it doesn't happen with words, it's going to be the right economic policies, it's going to be law, it's going to be justice, yes, and above all, it's going to be education, it's going to be healthy and it's going to work. Not an ideological goal to shape the future, but a very valuable lawmakers need to have a educational system that will create development in the future. But we see that the education system goes a little further back every day. Well, then, it's best to think about that first when we discuss the Development Ministry budget. It is still stated here that the budget for national education has been earmarked. For God's sake, please, open it, look at the numbers. When you look at the number in the budget... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's too short. I'm almost done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0022par0266	Please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0021par0267	Okay. Thank you. If you look at the numbers, if you look at the rates, the increasing number in the Ministry of National Education is part of the staff costs. A 4.8 per cent stake in education investments has declined according to last year. While the quality between you and the schools in this country continues with an educational system in the shadow of politics without eliminating the differences in quantity and depoliticizing politics, it is not possible to talk about development. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit01spe0023par0272	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 13.30.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The Commission and the Government are here. It is now his turn to speak for the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Grandson, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0024par0008	The hall is empty, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0023par0009	Yes, unfortunately.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0024par0010	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I salute your high council. Minister, I'd like to begin with your presentation speech. You put it beautifully: if life continues, let's protect the air, water, soil, and energy, not contaminate, or destroy, or we'll be left with natural disasters. And you added: "We are conscious of it." But we demand that these words be removed from wish and desire and put into practice as soon as possible. In your 15 years of power, the air is dirty, nature is plundering, the rant is everywhere, but nothing negative is taken responsibility for, and no negatives are taken into account. Let's start with the weather, guys. Starting in 2015, in almost every province of our country, pollution values known as PM10 have exceeded the value set by the World Health Organization. The only province of Çanrı is below these values. This pollution threatens the lives of all of us, our children. Let's look at nature, for example, for example, and it's really happening in virtually every region of us now. Unfortunately, in the first-degree natural sites, in the ecological areas, in the forests, in the springs, in the meadows, in the wetlands, with HES (HES) and thermals and nuclear plants, and especially with mines and stone furnaces, the capital is opened up, and on the other hand, the legal aspects are closed. Will we be satisfied with the value of this destruction that we've acquired? What costs will we face as we recycle nature? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, believe me, these assets of ours are coming out of our hands without mercy. Everywhere, when we go, especially when we travel on planes, we see our forested areas and meadows break down day by day. There's no way we can say good things about our children's trusts anymore. Look at our losses, guys, we say we've been planting trees for 15 years, but when the green area in Europe is 20 square meters, we still have this -- 5 square meters per person. Among 190 countries with the most forested areas, we ranked 139. We're in the 177th place to protect nature, my friends. The amount of land we have lost through erosion is 1.2 billion tons; 2.8 million hectares of farmland have been lost, our employment share in agriculture has fallen to 7.5 million people in 2002, and there are 5 million crops we haven't imported. Rivers, which are imprisoned with HESESTs, are finished with the Green Road, and the irreversible destruction of the ecosystem is increasing day by day. I'm afraid our signatures on international environmental contracts still don't hold up in our country. We've just learned that even before we came to this hall, dear friends, our Mayor of Esenyurt has resigned as well. In cities where 40 per cent of Turkey's population lives, the mayors are no longer elected mayors, unfortunately, either suspended or not represented by the national will. Mr. Secretary, we also have a very experienced, well-equipped mayor. I wonder, when our mayors are being deposed -- who shows their health reasons, some for different reasons, but the real reason is never explained to us. Some of our mayors are forced, some of our mayors are threatened, and some of our mayors are leaving in tears. There's no way to figure that out. Who will account for these cities in Ankara and Istanbul, which have been selling parcels for 20 years? Our great cities are no longer able to breathe. We betrayed our president, Istanbul, and we had a mistake. He confessed. The next day, AKP members in municipal parliament continue to lower their hands to the development plan changes, and still vertical growth continues. It's possible to see it in any area, in any city. So from here, do the mayors not understand the president's instructions, or do they just ignore them? The urban transformation is a project our Minister claims to have entered with great enthusiasm, very ambitious entry, but still, we don't know, what's holding him back? There's not enough work at this point, we're still building our earthquake gathering sites, and we still don't have the resources. We're afraid of the earthquake, we're concerned about the number of deaths in the earthquake, but unfortunately, we haven't been able to get enough work done. And during the Minister's membership in MYK, we had interviewed them about the Metropolitan Law, and we had also presented them with our views and suggestions on it, but there has still been no improvement from that day forward. As the problems of the cities and municipalities increase day by day, their mandates and powers increase day by day, unfortunately, their resources are not sufficient, and in recent days, 81 cities will be made into major cities, and all cities will be covered in all cities. Unfortunately, we don't know anything about that. If this law is to be passed, it must be taken from all political parties and applied for their savings.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0025par0020	God willing, it's a good law.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0024par0021	I hope so, yes, Mr. President. We're excited, too, because our municipalities are struggling with a really big problem. Actually, there's a lot to tell, but there's no way to tell on such short notice. Our local governments are really... especially the fact that our mayors have a ban on abroad is a shame, a shame, a shame in this country. The fact that our mayors only go abroad with the Home Secretary is damaging to our reputation in the world, and unfortunately, it discredits the chosen people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that sense, Mr. Secretary, we expect support from the Cabinet. I say again, when we looked at the budget of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, half of it was spent on staff costs, half of it was earmarked for personnel costs, we would expect that this budget would be spent on urban transformation, the destruction of nature, and that budget would be spent on a beautiful environment where our children would live. Thank you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0026par0028	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. The third speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is İstanbul MP Gülay Basci. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0033	Listen, my people, listen my peasant, listen my unemployed youth, listen my retired Uncle Mehmet, listen to me, Mehmet Teacher who can't be appointed is your future that's lost. Listen, ally media, if you've got the guts, publish it. Not for our nation, but for contractors. Since you're trying to run the economy with the construction industry alone, of course, you look at every green area, every social area you see, even schools, as a zoning, you even make special legal changes to solve your business. Now you've started a new fashion, or rather, I think you're following a new tactic, like I did in the Sener Sen. But ask me why I did it. We've done wrong around here. You say, "We've done wrong." Now you come to our words, and you go back to your sense of rhythm, and you turn the green tree green into dollars without using a mint. Well, don't the ministers have any idea how these studies, how the money in the shoeboxes got there? The Ministry of Environment's job is to create attractive areas, not market them. Unfortunately, our country's environmental report card is one of the worst countries in the world. In the last two years, we've gone 33 steps backwards, and we've become 99th and 177th in protecting nature and wildlife, among 180 countries; with whom, do you know? With Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia. The government, which quickly cemented its habitats from coasts to coasts because of unplanned and warped construction, from farmland to the green areas of the cities, was one of the main causes of environmental damage, the government, who did the crooked construction, who wanted to plant a thermal plant in the belly of Alpu Ovasi, who wanted to plant a nuclear plant in SinopÅ, who wanted to plant a government, mining, industry, and infrastructure during work, did not want the CED report from the contractors, which was one of the most important reasons for environmental destruction. It does not really suit the ministry to call it the Ministry of the Environment, when all it cares about is getting a runt from the construction industry. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which is sure to prefer concrete to concrete, was deceived by their betrayal of the environment, nature, and the city. If I were Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I'd have a vision of a city first. I'd try to explain what it must be like for people to live happily, in peace, in a city where they can live happily, but those who have no eyes at prayer have no ear for persecution. For example, we can't see a city vision in this budget because neither the Minister nor the Ministry has such a purpose. It is clear that your policies are aimed at ending the modern city's life like a hand that chokes our cities. We expect an approach from the understanding that he betrayed the city and said he was responsible for this betrayal, to nuclear power plants, to thermal plants, not to sacrifice coastal areas, not to build green areas. We're fed up with your fake city sense, your fake environment. You are the builders of the streambeds, and you are the builders of every field that he sees empty, and you are the ones that yearn for the city and the city, and you are responsible.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0028par0039	We are not offended; he says to Ataşehir. He says to Ilgezdi.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0040	We all know you're the killers of the cities. We see the empire of fear that you're trying to create, and we know that everywhere without love is dark, and you know that love will defeat the republic of fear. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, in this budget, there's no farmers burning their crops in the dirt, no pensioners who can't even buy candy for their grandkids, no unemployed people, no teenagers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0028par0043	Look at the environmentalist, he's polluting the floor, Mr. President. What kind of environmentalism is that?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0044	No women, no women, no women, no women.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0029par0045	That's pollution.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0028par0046	Respect the bench.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0047	Since Erzurum doesn't have gas money...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0028par0048	Don't throw it on the floor, the worker will get it, the worker will get it, put it upstairs.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0049	Erzurum. Erzurum.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0028par0050	Put it up, up, don't throw it down.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0051	Did you hear about a town called Erzurum? Erzurum is in Turkey. There is no budget for a citizen who burns turds in Erzurum.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0030par0052	That's pollution.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0053	There's no budget on this budget for a student who has to work construction and lose his life because he can't live on scholarships.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0031par0054	Let's not contaminate the environment.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0032par0055	Don't let the crows take them, let him take them himself.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0056	There are no unaccounted paramedics. There's a budget in this budget for a teacher who can transfer a million or so, but there's no budget for a teacher who has to drive a taxi when he's retired.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0032par0057	He imitates Elitas, Elitas, and Elitas.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0033par0058	There's theater people, theater people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0059	There's no budget for a worker who can't even buy his kid shoes, whose bread is low on grammar.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0032par0060	That's why you haven't had power in 15 years, but the show.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0061	There are no students in this budget who can bend their backs at 50 cents on the lunch hour. You know who? Five million euros and the tax debt is expunged.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0032par0062	Elitaş made them, you're late for the show.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0034par0063	What are you talking about? Are you putting on a show?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0064	There are businessmen in this budget who can be richer when they're rich. I am the MP of this great nation that my people have chosen.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0035par0066	What will you say about these documents concerning Ataşehir?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0036par0067	You've come to the wrong place, you need to go to the theater.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0068	And I return this budget to power, which is of no use to the nation, which does not contain any part of the nation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0037par0069	Don't show off, don't show off!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0038par0070	Then don't take your salary, okay?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0071	And we now deserve a national budget.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0037par0072	Is that what you do on people's podium?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0073	Where there are workers, where there are workers, where there are students, where there are teachers...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0037par0074	Shame, shame, shame, is that how you do it on the people's stand?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0075	It's a shame what you're doing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0039par0076	Mr. Backup, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0077	You've been exploiting this country for years. What you do is shameful.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0040par0078	What are you doing, insulting people on the stand? You're insulting people right now, insulting people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0027par0079	We'll give our lives for this country if we have to, and we won't speak in words like you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0040par0081	Come on, you've done your show, your show! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0041par0082	Mr. Backup, I'm asking you, can you pick it up?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0042par0083	Don't take it. Don't take it, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0040par0084	Don't pick it up. Don't buy it, guys. Pick them up yourself!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0043par0086	Mr. Backup, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0044par0087	Here's the CHP mentality.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0045par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0046par0089	It's an insult on the stand, obviously. It's an insult to people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0045par0090	Mr. President, I'm not going to respond to these kind of Greenwood shows, but I don't want any of his friends picking up the bench that he's trashed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0046par0091	Pick up your trash, take out your trash, Congressman, pick up your trash!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0045par0092	That's not a bad look!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0047par0093	Mr. Ozkoc, I'm asking you, after all, a congressman gave a speech, addressed it, but threw the papers in his hand on the floor.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0045par0094	It's so cheap, anybody can do it!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0048par0095	The day before yesterday Mustafa Elitaş threw them down, and Mustafa Elitaş threw them all down. Didn't Mustafa Elitaş throw it all away?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0045par0096	He put it on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0049par0097	He didn't throw it on the floor.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0098	So it would be much more elegant for Mr. Backup to collect them rather than for friends to collect them. It'll be much more elegant. Here you go...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0051par0100	Pick up your trash! Pick up your trash!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0052par0101	If he can't pick them up, we'll pick them up, but the cavat won't pick them up.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0102	One moment, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0053par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0104	Mr. Backup, just a second.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0054par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0106	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0054par0107	Just for the record.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0108	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0055par0109	Shame, you're insulting people from the people's podium.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0050par0110	Mr. Ozkoch, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0056par0111	Just for the record. I don't think it's right that people who make a budget that doesn't respect the worker, that doesn't respect the worker, that doesn't respect the teacher, that doesn't respect the teacher, that people act like they're protecting the rights and the law of friends. To the deputy president of the group who shouts, "Illegation" about the issues that we've explained here...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0057par0113	He left it on the stand, he didn't throw it on the floor.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0056par0114	... When our group vice president took the document away, he tore it off the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0058par0115	He put it on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0056par0116	My speech, when I was speaking from the stand, my friends, during my speech, they attacked me without even grasping the nature of my speech, and then our own friend, although he tore it himself, the AKP MPs tore up my speech and threw it around.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0059par0117	He's not around, he was on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0056par0118	Now, I get that they get up and pretend like they're thinking too much here -- we already know what they are, what they're doing -- and I get it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0060par0119	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0056par0120	But, Mr. Speaker, we respect you and respect your administration, your understanding, and we do what we have to do, not out of respect for them. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0060par0122	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0061par0123	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. I'd like to say something, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0060par0124	Congressmans, we're all in debt to protect the rights of our Kaves friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0062par0126	If he were to pack, we'd pick him up, like we always do. CHP's dirty, AK's clean.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0063par0127	Pick up your trash.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0064par0128	Mr. President, the AKP is showing off as usual. They've contaminated the environment, people can't breathe, people in Zonguldak have cancer, people everywhere in Turkey have cancer, let them go first, let them clean up their particles. It's not a job to pick up three pieces of paper. Don't show off here!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0065par0129	Give the Kavas status and then talk about the cavas.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0066par0130	Look, Mr. President, we've got a crew here from the cavas, we've got a 4/C, we've got a contract.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0067par0131	Thank you, lawmakers. Mr. Backup, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0068par0133	We thank Mr. Mahmut, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0069par0134	Don't let those who don't give status to the Kavasses, who don't have insurance, who don't have seniority, populism here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0070par0135	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0071par0136	We will protect the rights of the Kavas together.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0069par0137	Don't let those who don't give a damn about the Kavas act as if they're defending the rights of the cavas.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0072par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0071par0139	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0072par0140	Mr. President, the group's vice president has been taunting our speaker as he speaks by doing green shows.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0073par0141	He should apologize for that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0074par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0075par0143	It's an insult to greenhand workers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0076par0144	Here you go, Mr. Backup. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Turan, I'll listen to you later.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0077par0149	Mr. President, we're not surprised that a political party whose life is on the show and who's just trying to consolidate its own votes with the show can actually form such sentences in the face of our request for a budget for labour, but we, as representatives of the nation, will continue to defend our nation's rights in every way on every platform. If there are workers in this budget, if there are pensioners, if there are taxi drivers, if there are students, please show me somewhere. There's only side contractors in this budget, contractors who swear at people's mothers...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0078par0150	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0077par0151	...when there's a terrorist incident on Stystilal Street, I have a lot of money, and I leave roses with my middle lady, and I don't leave carnations.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0079par0152	It doesn't suit you! Does it look good on you? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0077par0153	We're against that understanding, and we're gonna fight it anyway. We don't want your show-of-the-art environmental approach here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0079par0154	Don't get people's seats dirty.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0077par0155	Give up the thermal plant you want to plant on Alpu Plain. You, give up all those fillings you've built on the sea, on the shores. ▪ Stop trying to leave the nation unclaimed under the name of urban transformation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0080par0156	Why did you promise, Mr. President? Why did you promise? What does it say?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0077par0157	People's deeds are worthless because of you. There was an I.D., a deed, and now those deeds are worthless. Don't you feel bad, that the earthquake will come, that people will die, that we've opened up the assembly grounds? Aren't you a little afraid of God? Is that even possible? What if people die? There are no gathering sites, and where will people go when there's an earthquake? Empty... says Mr. Secretary: I don't want to say it, but there may be an earthquake. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to tell me, the multi-story buildings you've built for the earthquake gatherings are speaking for you, and they're even screaming the loudest. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0081par0160	Are you running for president or something, Mr. Backup?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0082par0161	Thank you, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0083par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0082par0163	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0083par0164	Mr. President, I stand by my word, everything in the budget is already in the papers, and we'll discuss it until tonight. However, I leave it to your discretion to come in two minutes before his speech, stand on the stand, tear up the papers, and then leave.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0084par0165	Ask Elitaş, Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0085par0166	The citizen understands, you don't, but the citizen understands. It's an empty budget!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0086par0167	Mr. Turan Greencham has insulted his workers, he must apologize to his greenwood workers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0087par0168	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, we're still talking. In fourth place, Mr. Akif Ekici, MP of Gaziantep. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0217	My dear friends, we've all just lived together, he says, "The show is clear and clear, especially our friend, the Deputy Director of the Group Bulent Turan." Really show-offs, really, until today...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0089par0218	I'm not on the stand yet.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0090par0219	I don't think you've ever seen a show.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0220	What else have you seen, he says. Sure, we've seen more shows, you've got a lot of shows, you've got a lot of shows, we'll see a lot more shows. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Dear friends, the day before yesterday...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0090par0223	You're doing a show right now. You're showing off right now.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0224	Yeah, don't all talk, come talk from here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0091par0225	Well, you better speak up, then!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0226	The day before yesterday, Mustafa Elitaş made the same move here. We've all seen how gentlemanly and gentlemanly our group behave together.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0092par0227	What's that now?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0228	The papers were torn again. They were thrown here. We didn't say a word. He reacted here, our friend, and you didn't respect him, and there's no welcome, and we don't expect that. I'm not talking to my fellow deputies, especially the director of the AKP, and I'm telling that to the government.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0093par0229	Come to the budget, to the budget!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0230	Don't be deceived, friends, let's all be discreet about saying wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0094par0231	Congressman, talk about the budget!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0232	Please, where is this country going? Let's say together, please. But you don't have the guts to say it! They call you don't speak, you don't speak, you speak, my dear friends. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Anyway, I'll come up with something. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise today on the GAP budget. I salute you all with respect and respect, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, Gap is Turkey's 40-year project. Sixteen years of these 40 years were also ruled by the AKP government. The GAP was meant to remove the development difference between the regions, bring peace, end terrorism, but the GAP needed to move towards investment in order to reach those goals. In the AKP mentality, you didn't do GAP projects because there would be no capital in the pool, no capital in the AK PARTI management mentality, because it would not be able to provide a share of the orant and the entity, which was formed in the minds of the EC PARTI governments. What did you do? You built highways. What did you do? You built bridges? What did you do? You built an airport? Oh, should these be done? It has to be done. But here comes the money to the pool, the money. How can I throw away this $100 million? You've turned the other one in the direction of the people, because that's what's in the main mind. What? There's corruption. What? There's Rant. What? There's the benefit of the side. This kind of investment doesn't happen where it doesn't happen, my dear friends, you don't do it, you don't do it, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0095par0238	You can't talk without a bet, you can't talk without a bet!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0239	And as our fellow lawmakers, you can't say, "Why are you doing this to your executives?" You can't say, you can't say, they don't make you talk, and you can't say.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0096par0240	Drink your water, relax.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0241	Can you help me? Come, let's drink together if you help. My dear friends, where have you come in these 16 years in the Gap? You've put unemployment on the line in the GAP area. Today, Siirt, Bitlis, Batman -- there are MPs of those regions -- unemployment is up to 30 per cent, and Turkey's average has doubled. The unemployment has gone too far, the poverty has gone too far. Again, I say, friends, why do you not tell those who have done these wrongs, those who have done these wrongs? Mr. President, the GAP is one of the rare projects in the world, one of the few in the world. You always say "national," every word, every sentence has nationality, national, national, national.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0097par0244	That's nice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0245	Yes, that's right, we have to be very beautiful, very national. But why don't you go ahead with this national project, and you'll be co-chair of an imperial project, the Great Middle East Project, my dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0097par0247	Where do you live? Where do you live?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0248	You don't go to BOP, you don't evaluate BOP, you become the co-chair of BOP. Oh, what's the result? Where are we going? You see the state of Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, which is on the verge of disintegration in Iraq, they're in trouble. You, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, what are we doing? We are troubled with all the countries of the world, we are troubled with all the countries of the world, we are troubled in the Middle East, we are enemies with everyone. Why do you make such mistakes? My dear friends, this will all be over, and tomorrow your legislature will be over, and you and your fellow ministers here will be finished. We will go before our people, and we will go before our grandchildren, and they will ask us about it, and they will ask us about it, and they will say, "What did you do there?" They will say, "What did you do?" They will say, "Why didn't you call?" When this country was becoming like this, you didn't make a sound to a government that took the gas can while the fire was burning in Syria. We picked up the gas can. What did we do? We are one of the greatest followers of this work in Syria, one of the greatest in coming here. 3 million people moved, 1 million people lost their lives. 3 million people came to Turkey, 600 thousand in my city. The whole world is filled with terrorists. Where will these terrorists go tomorrow when there is peace in Syria? How will you pay for this, my dear friends? How are you going to pay for this? How are you going to pay for this? What are you going to tell your grandchildren? Is it worth it? Is it worth it to remain silent against all this corruption? Is it worth it to remain silent against all this corruption? Is it worth it? Is it worth it? I'm asking, is it worth keeping quiet about all this corruption? For God's sake, one of you doesn't say, "You've had enough, you've had enough, you've had enough." Where did our people come from, where did the poor come from, where did unemployment come from, where did poverty come from? One of you doesn't ask, one of you, one of you. You're 316 MPs, and one of you won't come out! There are some very dear friends in you I know. Say it, what's the big deal? It's not very often they'll make you MP next term, but you'll walk around with your forehead held high, you'll walk around your city with your head held high, you'll answer to your grandchildren.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0098par0251	Thank God our foreheads are high and our heads are high.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0252	Please, please, please, say good-bye to a structure that can stand against poverty and injustice, and don't say good-bye to everything. Say yes to a public mentality, don't say yes to a single person. We all see where one person will take the country. Today we see Syria, and this is what we see. You speak according to whatever instructions you receive. Please, for God's sake, I'm asking you on behalf of my people, to give up this wrong mentality.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0099par0253	We're on everyone's side. Whose side are you on?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0254	There's so much to say, so much to say, my dear friends. What have you done to this country, what have you done to it? I had a lot of other preparation, another day... and I'm looking at a picture here, and there's a picture here. I've seen some friends in you. You're on your knees next to Fetullah Gülen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Madam, I see your photo here, I see it here, do you see it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0100par0257	Yeah, but what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0258	She's on her knees, she's on her way to get instructions.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0101par0260	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0261	What's December 17-25? He's a 17-25er until December 17-25.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0101par0262	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0263	What is December 17th and 25th? I ask you, what is December 17th and 25th?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0102par0264	Thank you, Mr. Planter.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0103par0265	CHP has been appointed President-General, CHP has been appointed President-General. It means the president comes with the tape.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0266	So you're from December 17th to December 25th, after December 17th...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0102par0267	Mr. Ekici...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0268	Is that a law? Is there such a law? Where is it written in the Constitution? What law does it say? You're from December 17th to December 25th, not from December 17th to December 25th.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0102par0270	Thank you, Mr. Planter.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0088par0271	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0104par0273	Shame on you! Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0105par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0104par0276	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0277	It's for you, it's for you! What else? I'm telling you, it's a shame what happened. It's a shame what happened, what else can I say?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0107par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0108par0279	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0280	I don't know what else to tell you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0109par0282	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0283	It looks good, yeah, I'm doing what looks good.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0110par0284	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0285	I don't do anything that doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0111par0286	It suits you, it suits you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0287	I don't do anything that doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0112par0288	Yes, it suits you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0111par0289	It looks good on you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0290	I don't do anything that doesn't suit me, I don't do anything!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0113par0291	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0114par0292	What you're doing right now suits you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0293	You're talking nonsense. You're talking nonsense. You're an empty man, an empty man!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0114par0294	Yeah, that's right, it looks good on you, what you're doing right now!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0106par0295	You're an empty man!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0115par0296	Mr. Ekici, please...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0116par0297	Mr. President, a man should raise his voice, not his voice. Such speech does not contribute to the CHP, nor to the AK PARTY, nor to this nation. There was a moon in the budget, and they ruined it. We want good talks on budgets, debates. Every paragraph was polemic, we have answers to all of them. For example, I'd like to say this about the last one -- but once again, I'm not going to want to take the stand on the basis of the procedure economy -- a CHP deputy says that I have the text: it's remarkable that four of the five MPs who went to the United States were nationalists. So if we open up the old books, it could be anyone's fault. That's not the right way. Let's talk budget. Your deputy has made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment. Let's talk about it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0117par0302	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0118par0303	Passports, passports!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0117par0304	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0119par0305	Mr. President, as our Republican People's Party, there's nothing we can do about both the Fetullah terrorist organization and other terrorist organizations, both the unjust cases in Turkey and the imprisonment of journalists, MPs, writers. If there's a political party that's going to fall under him and answer to the nation, it's called the AKP, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0117par0308	Well, it's on the record. Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Now, don't talk...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0120par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0117par0311	Excuse me, yes, Mr. Ilılılı had a request for a statement. I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you are, Mr. Ilıcalı.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0121par0316	Thank you very much, my dear President. I'm just saying that Republican People's Party MP Gulay Madam Backup has made a policy through our city -- sad -- that I don't find it elegant. "Who knows Erzurum?" Erzurum is a city that begins the national struggle, and everyone knows Erzurum. Also, as of April 12th, Mr. President Erzurum has announced to the world that Erzurum is the candidate city of the 2026 Winter Olympics; the world recognizes it. Is Erzurum a budget for Erzurum's issues? Erzuruma is earmarked for $2 billion a year. At the moment, our Ministry of Transport has taken over a 1 quadrillion-year-old tram project. Our Minister of Development is here, thank you; he has approved the Dam of Non-Sayer -- 1.5 quadrillion -- with old money. We need to ask the Erzurumians about Erzurum's condition, and we need to do a survey. Ma'am, I'm asking you, we're all lawmakers working very well on Erzurum. The people of Erzurum support us. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0122par0322	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Mr. Responsor, I believe you want a word.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0123par0324	No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0124par0325	I made a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0122par0326	Since Erzurum was talking about Erzurum, he answered, and now Mr. Backup wants to fix it. Here you go, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0125par0329	Now, Mr. President, first of all, let me tell you, there is a painting in Erzurum, other than what our Erzurum MP, Mr. Ilicali, said. They're always using numbers to trick people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0126par0330	He asked me if you were going to see him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0125par0331	But what I'm saying is very clear. Uncle Mehmet, I know, in Erzurum, he has no money to use natural gas, he burns turds. That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0127par0332	Mr. President, don't shout, we hear, there's a microphone.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0126par0333	Look, go see Erzurum. There is natural gas in Erzurum, natural gas.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0125par0334	When the AKP MPs across the street didn't listen to this, what did I say: do you know Erzurum? There's a province called Erzurum, you know? If you know you have a province called Erzurum, why don't you contribute to the people of Erzurum today?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0128par0335	Congressman, how many years ago did you go to Erzurum?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0125par0336	You're Erzurum's MP. What did we say in Erzurum: We asked for a discount on natural gas? Why didn't you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0128par0337	I take it you're telling me about the funeral.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0125par0338	We're here, we wanted to be the Istanbul MP. Why? We want all our citizens in our country to live in peace and joy, and we will do what is necessary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0128par0339	When was the last time you went to Erzurum?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0129par0340	Thank you, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0130par0341	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit02spe0129par0342	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0129par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fifth speaker is Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız. Your time is seven minutes, Mr. White Star. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0131par0051	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, dear employees of our press and Congress, precious bureaucrats and dear citizens watching us on their screens, and I salute you with love and love and conversation. Before I begin my speech, I have many things to receive in these hands yesterday. I ask God's mercy to the land where he longs for, the great poet Ali Kıziltuğ, whom we have hidden in the ground at the foot of the Yama mountains, whom we have sent to Hakkk. At first, my family, my brothers from Mursal, and all your loved ones, my condolences and patience. And I also respectfully salute our brother, our esteemed MP, who has been held hostage in Maltepe Prison for months, despite his innocence and innocence, and at the end of my speech, I would like to present him with a poem from here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have made a pledge on the budget of President of the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration. The aim of the DAP is to achieve a comprehensive transformation in the region, to strengthen sectors such as industry, trade, transport, energy, and to improve accessibility to education, health, culture and other social services; to improve the competitiveness of the region with a innovative approach; to strengthen the economic and social capacity of the region by improving the prosperity of citizens. Now, when we read the purposes and intentions that are written here, it says something that everyone really likes. But that's not the truth at all. Aside from reducing the level of development and development between the regions and the region, there is no need to be a priest today to see that there is a gap between them. So when I looked at the budget for the year 2018, when I saw that the budget of the Ministry of Development had been cut down, I just couldn't believe it at first, and I think I looked at it wrong, and I looked at it again very carefully, but unfortunately, the numbers I saw were real. The budget for the Ministry of Development was cut by 37.5 per cent more in 2017, with the budget of 2018 reduced to 1 billion 764m 378,000 euros. I've looked at the grant for the DAP, and I've seen the same trouble here. The grant for the DAP was earmarked for 157 million and 974,000 liras last year -- 16 per cent less than the budget set aside in 2017. So there's no need for development in our country. Where did the government take it from here and put it? He gave it to the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget. What did they do? Sir, the President of Religious Affairs' budget in 2017 was $6 billion,867 million,117 thousand, while a huge budget was earmarked for the Chairman of the Religious Affairs for 2018, 7 billion 774m 183,000 liras. This is where I propose to the government: if the budget, which is more than the budget of 11 ministries, has been divided into the Ministry of Religious Affairs, then you come, connect the Ministry of Development to the Ministry of Religious Affairs, and the Ministry of Development will be free of this burden, and there will be no need. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I also propose to the President of Religious Affairs: change in agricultural structure; sustainability in tourism; strengthening sectors such as industry, trade, transport, energy; accessibility to education, health, culture and social services; already dealing with fetishes that you can reduce the difference in development between regions; and that would be no longer a burden to the Ministry of Development. Mr. President, I have reviewed the Court's Control Report for 2016 of the Eastern Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration. First of all, I want to thank my brothers and sisters from here in the Court very, very much. They found 15 valuable, valuable findings that I found important and valuable by doing a good study. Because of the difficulties provided by institutions and institutions, they have shouted here that they have not been able to perform enough of their monitoring and evaluation duties, and yet there are 15 valuable findings. Now, I don't have time here to read those 15 findings and tell the Minister. If he wants, I'll present them with 15 findings of this court report after my speech, and I think they might want to take advantage of it. I'm running out of time. I told you at the beginning of my speech. I'd like to complete my vows by offering a poem to our dear brother Enis, who is being held hostage in Maltepe Prison. Again, Sivas Kangalli, a late lover of ours, a poet, the precious Muhlis Akarsu says in his verses: Come on, brother, don't wander apart. Is it appropriate to serve a slave? Don't bow your neck to me. Is it appropriate to serve a slave? Even with your opportunity, We're back to the sea. In the 20th century, Is it appropriate to serve a slave? Even though the water was tight, Though the people of Earth always die, Even if this ends in rope, Is it appropriate to serve a slave? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I salute you with love and respect, and I say, "We did not worship the worshiper, nor will we ever worship the worshiper after him."
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0132par0078	Thank you, Mr. White Star. The sixth speaker is Mr. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you, the Council of Presidents, the esteemed members of the General Assembly, the nation watching us on their screens, and I begin with the desire that his tolerance, the way of wisdom and science, should guide all of us, while we honor and cherish this before Shebiarus. Just eight days ago, on Thursday, December 7, 2017, we watched a press release in Athens. Aleksis Chipiras on one side, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the other as President of the Republic of Turkey. Chipras said exactly this, my friends: Mr. Erdogan, I heard you talk about differences of opinion in the Aegean and Cyprus. I'm 43 years old. It's been discussed all the time. Dear President, this has been going on for forty-three years. Forty - three years ago, there was an illegal occupation, so it came out. Now, I've seen this live, my friends. I expected Mr. President to say something; he must, because the state of the Republic of Turkey is an illegal invader in Cyprus. Such an accusation cannot be left unanswered. As a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and as a member of the Republic of Turkey who served as a doctor during the operation of Cyprus, I feel that this should not go unanswered today, so I have something to say from this stand to Aleksis Chipiras. Mr. Chipras, there was no illegal invasion in Cyprus forty-three years ago. Forty-three years ago in Cyprus, a member of an EOKA terrorist organization named Nikos Sampson, a Turkish-murdering bandit, with the encouragement of the junta, which you have occupied today, Cypriot President Makarios fled to England. There was something that he was surprised or didn't expect, Nikos Sampson, who was then a decent man in Turkey, a Prime Minister and a decent man, a government.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0134par0088	There was Najmuddin Erbakan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0089	He was the Prime Minister and he was the Deputy Prime Minister of Government, Necmettin Erbakan and other parties in parliament -- Justice Party, Süleyman Demirel, National Movement Party, Alparslan Turkesh, and others -- became the only ones. Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit went to England and held talks; then, as Cyrus Vance, the special representative of the United States of the United States, sat across the desk of Cyprus, Kissinger passed through the phone and ordered the Chief of Staff Semikh Sancar to the other room, and Operation Cyprus began. Nikos Sampson fled the island, where constitutional order was established, and Turkey's citizens were prevented from killing Turkish relatives. Forty-three years ago, after this illegal coup in Cyprus was prevented, the second action was carried out by the Greeks in the Geneva talks, and today's status quo was established in Cyprus. Forty-three years there have been no more such massacres. If Major Nihat Ilhan's wife and three children were not murdered in bathtubs, and there is a legitimate government in Cyprus today, that is the result of the incident forty-three years ago. Of course, it's not enough to tell Mr. Chipras. You should have said something else, and we should have said it from here, and it should have been said to Chipras: Mr. Chipras, you have been occupying our 18 islands in the Aegean since 2004. It is not the state of the Republic of Turkey, but the state of Greece. It must be said. (CHP) It is the duty of a person who is the President of this country to say so. If he doesn't know the date, he must learn and protect the honor of the state of the Republic of Turkey both in Athens and elsewhere.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0135par0092	We protect, we protect, don't worry. Mr. President protects it everywhere.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0093	The honor of the state is not by drawing it upon him. It is necessary not to pull, but to do so. Look, I'll tell you something else: Jerusalem is, of course, our first qiblah, very important. Of course it must be done for Jerusalem, but if you don't do what you do for Jerusalem for 18 islands, then you're not going to wave like this, wow, one country, one nation, one flag, one state.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0136par0095	You found out, he found out, he's fine.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0096	Why? Because your only country is divided in Izmir, Aydın, and Mugla, as the Greeks are now upon it. Your flag is not the only flag. As long as the Greek flag is flying there, you can't call it a single flag.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0137par0097	Are you a citizen of another country?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0098	You say one nation, three Greek-born mayors are now ruling the islands and you say, "What single state are you talking about? Is Reza Zarrab the state that stands in front of...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0138par0099	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0100	...the state that was tried in a court in New York, the state where Recep Erdogan, the president of Mr. President, or the state that you handed over to Fetullah Gülen? Now, why am I saying this, dear friends? See, here, after July 15th, four groups of vice presidents met, and the joint statement was announced, a joint statement was issued for Jerusalem. Now, I would like to call on the members of the group, members of the four parties, members of the group, to write a statement in the back room with our Deputy Speaker of Parliament, and write a statement to Greece immediately, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as you often say to Greece, the Gazi Assembly, the Gazi Parliament, the Gazi Parliament... you're taking out an MP because he told you the name of a district in this Gazi Parliament, but the Greek flag is waving over your land, brother. This is totally unacceptable. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) You will surely write a joint statement and say, "O Greece, either remove the invasion of those islands during your time or as the Turkish Grand National Assembly, we know how to lift that occupation. Now, get out here and tell me if these islands are ours or not. I'll tell you, Ismet Yilmaz, your Minister of Defense, said from this stand: "Yes, Greece has created a de facto situation, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0139par0103	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0133par0104	According to the law, but according to the Lauzan Agreement -- those islands are ours. Well, if Ismet Yilmaz did not make an unrealistic statement from this platform, then it is the duty of all the MPs of the Assembly, the MP of the MP, the MP of the MP of the MPHP, the CHP, and the AKP (AKP) to respond to the Greek flag that they deserve and to bring down the Greek flag on the islands. As long as that flag is flying there, none of the members of this House are lawful. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0139par0107	Thank you, Mr. Bozkurt. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0140par0109	Mr. President, thank you. We were amazed to see the Hati's speech. I'd like to think of it as an oversight to say your only flag, your only country, your only state. Otherwise, I think all 550 deputies here know what one flag, one nation, one country, one state, one flag is, the state. Secondly, our ministers from this bench have stated in a manner of speaking, that no pebbles about the islands were considered outside of those agreements, which were recorded in Lausanne and several other agreements. So a country's gonna take our pebble, and we're gonna shut up about it. That's not even possible.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0141par0112	Yeah, that's right, you're quiet.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0142par0113	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0140par0114	However...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0143par0116	Go ahead, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0140par0117	However, it has been stated before, there are some places where the Lausanne Agreement cannot be expressed under technical conditions, cannot be specified on the map, whose name is not mentioned. And that's what our President would say, "Let's discuss, let's discuss, let's take a proud approach to Greece." So there is no new occupation, no new expression, no new approach. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0143par0119	Well, it's on the record, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0144par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0143par0121	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0144par0122	Mr. President, for the record, I'm saying this. Once upon a time, there was an actual situation on the islands. On the islands there, the Greek generals wanted to go out and show the world that those islands belonged to them. The government of the Republic of Turkey has not spoken a word in Turkey. There, along with other generals and officers, it was as if entertainment was being held in the festive mood. It was as if the crime was in the technical details of the Lausanne Agreement, as their ministers have expressed here, but they could not have shown the courage if the reputation of the Republic of Turkey had been shown during the invasion of Greek islands until now. Just for the record.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0143par0124	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0145par0125	There is no invasion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0126	Mr. President, I'd like to give you an answer, if I may.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0143par0127	It's on the record, please state from there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0128	Look, Lausanne needs to be implemented, not updated; it's one. Secondly, a Turkish boat called Figen Akat landed on 25 December 1995, off the coast of the basement, in front of the Cardac rocks. It's a crisis we call a Cardiac Crisis. The Greek government sent warships there, and Turkey... then Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, in his words -- the Vice President of the Republican People's Party, the beloved Deniz Baykal (now being treated) -- says that the government is unable to give up the rights to the sovereignty of Turkey. The Greek flag will either come down from the Cardacic cliffs, or it will. That soldier will leave from there. Now, look, dear President, dear friends, Mr. Bkent Turan; Greece's largest military base is in Turkey's territory, with 5,000 soldiers, 18 bases. Look, I'm presenting photos of some of these bases to the General Assembly's information that this is Aydın Hursit Island, this is Aydın Hursit Island, this is the positioned cannons there, and the barrel is facing our country. Now, my dear President, on the name of the Cardac rocks, we now have the Greek occupation on our 18 islands, which has been going on since 2004. Now, Mr. Bulent Turan says we don't accept such an occupation. I say the same thing, Mr. Turan, none of us will be able to accept it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0147par0134	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0135	No member of any party here is allowed to accept it. It's not enough, it's necessary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0148par0136	Well...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0137	For him, I, again, would like to announce to the government that this Parliament, as Parliament, has made such a decision, that both you and the esteemed members of the group...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0148par0138	Well...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0139	I would also like to remind the members of the government that even though the will has been delivered to the palace, Mr. President, the government is the parliamentary democracy that has yet to rule Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0149par0140	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0141	Our government is on duty. It's a common responsibility.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0150par0142	Give him time to talk. Give him ten more minutes and he'll talk.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0143	See, this is a violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, the state of the Republic of Turkey is undivisable with its country and its nation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0151par0144	Thank you, Mr. Bozkurt.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0146par0145	In reference to him, Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code states that it is a treason offense to abandon all or part of the country's territory to foreign occupation. The sentence is life imprisonment. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please, let everyone know that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0151par0148	Well, thank you, Mr. Bozkurt. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0150	Mr. President, I honestly don't think it's right that this is a matter of polemics.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0151par0151	Yes, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0152	Let alone the island, the land, when there is only one pebble, all history knows how this nation will fight together. Stop giving away a pebble, somewhere...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0153par0154	Your Minister says... your Minister says...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0155	But you can't just not listen, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0154par0156	Go ahead and talk, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0157	Mr. President, this isn't the right style either. He's using the harshest expression, friends, we're listening, patiently, when we open our mouths, he starts screaming. That's not the right approach. Let us talk, and we'll sing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0155par0158	No one's yelling... no one's yelling...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0156par0159	You're yelling.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0160	Now, Mr. President, I'd like to ask why the Firat Shield was built.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0157par0161	What do the islands have to do with the Fırat Shield, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0162	Let alone the government, these steps have been taken in spite of the possibility of being a state. We can't forgive that. So, that sensitivity is common sensitivity. The speaker had just stated in Greece that our President was silent against what Chipras had said. I have the text in my hand. He said it's been going on for forty-three years, Mr. Chipras. I've been following this process, and I know who's running away from the cushion. They're talking about military possession, and Greece doesn't have soldiers? The whole world knows how our president protects our sensitivity, this country's union outside. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0158par0165	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0159par0166	Mr. President, there's something seriously wrong with Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0152par0167	There's no such procedure, Mr. President, he speaks on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0160par0168	Not like this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0161par0169	Mr. Balbay, I'm going to call your other speaker. If there's a mistake, Mr. Speaker, correct it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0160par0170	Tell the speaker, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0162par0171	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0163par0172	There's no end to this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0162par0173	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0164par0174	Well, according to 60, I promise you one minute, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0163par0175	Mr. President, there's no end to this.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0164par0176	Mr. Turan, the MP is asking for a location according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0163par0177	We don't even take the stand, but we don't want to be late.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0164par0178	Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0165par0181	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Yesterday, when the Secretary of Defense was here, I struggled for the promise, but there was another environment. He was, you know, our SIHA, our SIHA, the ones who could get everything to the address, I was wondering if we could at least respect the Greek sign of our islands in the Aegean -- we respect the flag of every country -- but now I'm asking Mr. Turan. I expect the Minister of Urbanism to be here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0166par0182	Is that even a thing, Mayor?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0165par0183	The mayor's name is Evangelos Angelakos, in Greek government records -- first on Sheep Island, off the coast of Izmir. They've appointed the mayor of our Bay Island. Two, Kottoros, mayor of Donkey Island, off the coast of Aydın. Galouzis, mayor of Goat Island, off the coast of Murla. What are you going to do with these mayors? What will you do with these islands in Greece?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0167par0185	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0168par0186	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0165par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit03spe0169par0189	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0170par0048	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point of confiscating him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0049	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0170par0050	There was an argument just before the break, you know, a polemic. I wanted to make a commitment to the importance of the matter. I've spoken to our ministry, and I've spoken to our Minister himself, and as no island in the Republic of Turkey has claimed to be occupied, the actual or official situation in the Aegean has not changed since 1996. I'm giving up the plus and minus until the Kardak crisis, and I want to say that nothing has changed from Kardak until now. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0052	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0171par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0054	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0171par0055	For the record, the situation is that both Turkey and the world know that the Greeks are now circling the islands there. It is known to both Turkey and the world that they, their soldiers, their citizens, their mayors have created a de facto situation; the AKP wants to shadow it. The world knows that, and Turkey knows that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0056	Well, thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0172par0057	Mr. President, I want three mayors to answer my question.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0058	Okay, well, if he answers, I mean, I...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0172par0059	So three mayors, these people are in the records of Greece.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0060	Mr. Balbay, you asked a question, their discretion may or may not answer.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0172par0061	Okay, I want an answer to that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0169par0062	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the seventh speaker is Mr. Khakat MP Mr. Ancient Durmaz. Mr. Durmaz, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0173par0066	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our beloved nation watching us from the start of their television, I salute you all. We wish our country the best of luck for the budget of 2018. The budget is the sweat of every individual living in this country, the table of the minimum wage, the pensioner's salary, the tradesman's life, the artist's life. Your budget officer is the end of the month. The budget is the farmer's field. The budget is our villages, our cities, and the nature we live in. The budget is for people, for citizens, and, in its case, the most basic right to citizenship. The budget is also the source of development, development, prosperity. Well, speaking of all of this, it's also very important that the poor's table does not grow when we're talking about the 11 percent growth we're hearing from the government. We're very curious to know how the economy is growing when the pensioner's pension is improving. I was a young teacher who began to live in the 1970s, and when we were paid a monthly salary, we were able to take away what our children, spouses, relatives expected of us, but today such things are no longer happening in Turkey, our precious government needs to know about them. 70 percent of the villager's watering land is held hostage by 85 percent of its tractor presence, and we're curious to grow up. The answer to these questions is actually very clear. THE AK PARTY is trying not to destroy poverty, but to grow and govern poverty, to gather votes from around here and become power. In 2002, about 20 million of our citizens worked and produced in rural villages, but at the coming point, 16 years later today, 6.5 million villagers work and contribute to production in the village. It's not because you can't feed the poor -- it's important to underline -- it's because you can't just feed a bunch of people. You can take votes, you can have powers, you can have positions, but you have to know that the people of our country aren't happy. Dear lawmakers, sustainable development is the name of a balanced development of a country's environmental, social and economic structure, providing modern, democratic and social justice for all parts of society. If we're talking sustainable development, we should be talking about a balanced development on a local and regional scale in rural and urban areas. We have to develop a development policy that takes into account strategic products on regional and local scale, not in all sectors, from agriculture to tourism, energy to industry, but in addition to new technologies and innovations to environmental problems. At this point, regional development strategies and investments are vital. That's why we care so much about development agencies. We do, but unfortunately, we're not getting the yield we expect from the development agencies. These agencies are tasked with balancing intergalactic differences, eliminating unfair competition and assessing regional features, producing, improving, increasing employment. I'd like to point out to DOKAPP, one of the major projects on the regional level: When we look at the cities that are now covered by DOCAP, we see that immigration and unemployment is the biggest problem. While we wait for further funding and regional investments, the DOCAP has not even been able to use the available funds assigned to it. Again, a significant part of the projects involved in the 2014-2018 Action Plan was unfortunately incomplete due to lack of supervision. 14 projects that have not been launched are also included in the records of the DOCAP. So because of these unplanned, unpredictable, unpredictable approaches to the public, the DOCAP and its boroughs are not developing enough, it can't improve, and it can't stop the migration. Mr. President, do you think that unemployment and immigration have been eliminated in the cities under the DOCAP? No. Have the DOCAP projects eliminated the inequality of income between regions? No. So, how do our regional agencies work, do they really prioritize projects that will help improve the fabric of cities? That's no. Most importantly, do projects make life easier for our nature, our streams, our forests, generations after us? Unfortunately, the answer to that question is no. The projects under DOCAP should be conducted in coordination with public institutions, as well as with NGOs, trade and industrial rooms, agricultural chambers, trade markets and universities. When investments are planned, it is also inevitable that the right results will be taken when they care about these institutions and co-ordinate them. If the legal arrangement is needed, together, all political parties should be able to implement it quickly with a common understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, another important issue is the control of agencies. Do we have enough information on the monitoring and evaluation of the activities of regional development agencies? We're not. A performance assessment should be conducted by comparing the goals and budgets that these agencies have envisioned in their strategic plans, and should be subject to a development race that complements the region's provinces. We need to focus on reducing regional growth differences -- three, five, ten -- and establish long-term goals and focus on those goals. Sustainable projects that are friendly to man and nature, to develop cities, must be our priority. The municipalities certainly shouldn't use the resources of these agencies for their actual work, nor should they be allowed to use them; for this, a framework, a control mechanism must be created. Without the supervision of the agencies, there is also the inevitable possibility that far from science and development results will come out. Mr. President, the precious MPs are Artvin, Bayburt, Giresun, Silverhouse, Army, Rize, Samsun, Tokat and Tripoli. These are our provinces, where there is no industrialization, where agriculture potential and cultural beings are not revealed enough, where unemployment is at its highest levels. The slap is a province with the most plantable watery farmland, and it has precious plains, but as the newly lost Ali Kızıldüğ, a house remained there in the villages, and a house stayed here. In fact, after that, owls are perched at the top of the fountains in villages, watering them not, and beautiful ones. Tokat, who is the head of our most migratory cities, is the unemployment of our young people, and I regret to inform you, dear friends, that there are 46,000 files in the execution of the Tokat, with a population of 140,000 centers. The slap has historical texture, but has not received enough investments, and has lost a lot of value in taking these investments. What we need to do is we need to prioritize projects with a common understanding of civil society and immediately include SODES, such as any other cities under the DOC. Again, the Turhal Candy Factory, which is vital in Tokat, will provide very good touch for the development of Tokat (Kaksar), which I have repeatedly expressed from this bench, has to be completed by the Niksar-Akkuş-Akkuş-Unyah road and the 4,100-metre Pinelibel Tunnel at the altitude, which is located at the privatisation pool, and will immediately be able to serve the cooperative, the manufacturers, the locals, safely. The slap, as you all know, is a province with many historical heritage and culture. Urgently, within the Foundations, whose financial power is also in place, with a change of law, it is imperative that the Foundations, not only restore historical values and heritage from the Ottoman people from Seljuklu, but also implement the historical fabrics that were given to the Anatolian geography before us by a legal arrangement, to see people, to contribute to the tourism of the country. And in this regard, our members of the government are here with a legal arrangement... There is Sebastopolis in the slap, and touch it with the historical touch of 200 households. Dear friends, Sebastopolis Ancient City is a city the size of 3 Efes. When our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism here takes the 200 households from here and takes them to a suitable corner, I say this is a civilization that will make what we call Turkey's tourism a non-violent factory, a stream that won't disturb nature or the environment, and the face of Tokat will change. I wish our country the best of luck for the 2018 budget. I say to our dear MP and other imprisoned friends who expect us to be sensitive to this Parliament: Parliament must come to its senses, establish rights, law, justice without looking elsewhere. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0174par0083	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. The eighth speaker is Mr. Omar Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0175par0088	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have estimated the total budget size of 2018 is $844 billion, and the Justice Department budget is estimated at $1.62 per cent, so the Justice Department is divided into only 1.62 per cent, whereas the share of the republic's founding years was quite high. In 1924, for example, the Justice Ministry budget was 3.5 per cent; in 1932 it was 3.4 per cent; in 1934 it was 4 per cent. From that point on, we can say that the grant to the Justice Department was insufficient. So where are these funds being spent? We say 40.6 percent of last year's grant was spent on prisons, so almost half the budget went to prisons. Prisons are packed, prisoners and prisoners have to sleep in turns. The government can't make it to prison in the country. As a matter of fact, in 2018, 38 new prisons were described as important work during the Commission talks. Nowhere in the world is a country that maintains social peace, modernizes, and, above all, reduces crime. In fact, crime is a consequence. It's an antiquated approach to trying to create social peace by forcing the individual's discipline rather than uncovering the causes that lead to crime. In this respect, the way out of the sane authorities should be to open businesses that produce, employ, and do not give their citizens any anxiety about the future. Instead of looking for political exit routes through social polarization and the tension-based consolidated communities, there should be efforts to improve the culture of reconciliation, and to abandon common position on the heroic or victimic agenda created by the ruling state. The common value of society should be based, not on understanding that dominates the country. On the other hand, when it comes to praising the activities of the Ministry of Justice, either the package of judicial reform or construction. The package of judicial reforms is actually about changing the previous law, and in essence, they're not reforms, they're reflections that are the result of total inability to do business. My dear friends, since 2002, it is possible to see the construction of new courthouses in the country, from the point of view of the understanding that its development has only been a contractor's service, in many places, from the government's mansion below, to the grand court palaces in dust. Today there are large courthouses, campus prisons and huge courtrooms, but there is no justice in these buildings. There's nothing left of the justice that's being distributed today in those ironclad courts and in those difficult conditions. In the country, only the happy few are satisfied with the new judiciary because they have no judicial work because the judges are focused on the word coming out of the mouth of the opponents, not on the pocket. Today, Turkey's most heavy weapon has been the word out of the mouth, and it is unpleasant. In today's trial, no one has any confidence except the one with a conscience left aside, biased, unempathy, arrogant, newly supported ruling minority. In this unsafe environment, the members of the judiciary are included. They too are helpless in an environment where the rule of law is laid aside, the rule of law is ignored, and ultimately there is no independence of justice. In this sense, some of them prefer to take part in the orbit of the execution, while a significant part of them try to be principled in difficult conditions by recording what is happening. Honorable lawmakers, along with those who were discharged after July 15th, will increase the number of judges and prosecutors staying in the courthouses to 10. Currently, the number has risen to 15,600. The number is expected to be 20,000. This means that at the moment, the judge who will serve in the judiciary is either a year old or a year and a half at most -- a large part -- at the most. The trials at the courthouse have sadly turned into a farce. This young fellow should not be burdened with such burdens, he should do his duty to the Academy of Justice and focus on their training. Dear MPs, there are editors and clerks at the courthouses. These are the people who are burdened with great burden. Their tasks are difficult and risky, and they are unable to pay for their labors, and they are oppressed in their workplaces. They also lack risk compensation, judicial compensation. After all, there has been a distinction between the editors of the court and the current clerks regarding additional indicators. This distinction must be resolved immediately, and their additional indicators must be raised to at least 3,000. Members of parliament, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office -- Mr. Parsak also said in the morning -- a plan is being considered as follows: The number is wanted to be increased. So, in a sense, the support of the Justice and Development Party should actually be seen by fellow members of the Judiciary Platform. Right now in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court -- it's not right to say this, but -- as far as we're concerned -- there's a majority of ecclesiastists and social democrats. In order to break this union, the Court and the State's members are asked to be increased by a decree of a law in order to take over this supreme court. My dear friends, our Istanbul MP, Kadir Enis Berberoglu, has been severely wronged. I've been working on his file for three months. If this is happening to a congressman, 80 million people have no guarantees in the judiciary, I'm really sorry about that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In this regard, judges have the necessary assurance under the rule of rule of law and the assurance of the judge, that the jurisdictions are no longer a means of profit, that the principle of separation of powers is that the independence of the judiciary is provided according to the principle of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0176par0100	Please, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0175par0101	I salute the High Assembly with the longing of Turkey, where justice is a place where fair decisions are made for the nation, not the punisher of the executive body, but a place where the judiciary is a factor in the work of social peace and democracy.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0176par0103	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. The ninth speaker is Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakverdi. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0177par0108	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. We're budgeting. We're deciding how much money we're going to raise from who, who, how much money we're going to wire. When we look at the budget you brought in, we can clearly see who the government loves and who it doesn't like. We see clearly in the budget who's got a debt on his back, who's got an eye on his pocket, whether he's rich or not. Well, let's see how you collect the money first. Taxes are 86 per cent of the collected budget. So, what are these taxes? Sixty-five percent of these taxes are indirect taxes, and 35 percent are direct taxes. Let's take a look at this big part, what's this 65 percent? These are consumption taxes, such as VAT, OTV, which are bought equally from everyone, regardless of their income status, and the tax that consumes the lives of a citizen. What's that? Taxes from gas, natural gas, water, bread, vital activities. So, what's the ratio? 65 percent. The remaining 35 per cent are taxed directly. These are taxes on direct earnings, such as income tax, institutional tax. These are the taxes you get from the officer, from the worker, before you've even touched the salary, and the taxes you collect from businessmen who don't smuggle their profits into tax Gardens. Now, the citizen consumes for a living, pays his taxes in advance. The worker pays this tax, both when the officer consumes it and when he earns his salary, before he can even get his hands on it. It's obvious that you're putting the tax on the back of a citizen who's barely making a living. I'm afraid your eyes are in the citizen's pocket. On the other hand, those who open up companies in tax gardens and deliver money to Man. They don't even pay taxes. They don't even contribute to the budget. They're local and national gentlemen. And then there's ally companies. Non-profit corporations that curse people's mothers and wipe out their tax debts, we can't get taxes from them either. We collected the tax from the citizen. Well, let's see where we're spending all this money. The highest cost goes to the debtors, the loan sharks, the interest lobby. We're looking at the presidential budget in the budget, you've raised 30%, 30%. There's no covert waste here, except for the fact that it's a covert waste. And you raise the defense 40 percent. What about training? Let's take a look at the training. For new investments in education, teacher purchase, school production; have you set aside money to support the education budget, education level, and let's see: 24/4/4 of the budget, only 24/1000 of it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0178par0115	Education, health, 45 percent.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0177par0116	The national education budget is the third budget, but what you spend on this investment is 24/1,000ths of the budget. Mr. Vice President, take a look, 24 out of a thousand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0178par0117	It doesn't do that!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0177par0118	The rest of the education budget only covers the current expenses. What does that mean? You'll wait longer for teachers, neighborhoods waiting for school, villages waiting. This budget points to him. See, there is no support for education in this budget; there is no pay increase for workers, for officers; there is no support for farmers. There's no peace in the budget, there's a fight. There's an E.R. in the budget. There's a raise to the public, a waste to the palace. There's a tax on a bridge that the citizen never even crossed. And what else? Unfortunately, there are plenty of prisons, Mr. Justice Minister, prisons. There are 384 prisons in our country, 384. These prisons are capable of 207,000. There are only 230 thousand prisoners. 23,000 more, 23,000 in a row.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0179par0120	Ali Haydar, come to Çorum.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0177par0121	There are over 700 children under the age of six in prison. There are journalists and MPs. I'd like to send greetings to all our arrested MPs in person, Enis Berberoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0180par0124	Send it to HDP people and to HDP people.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0177par0125	Other than that, there's death in prisons, death. There have been 1,558 suicides in the last two and a half years, 1.558. I'm afraid 49 percent of them were killed, Mr. Secretary. With all these dire consequences in the open, the press is giving good news of the opening of a new prison, good news. He says it's good! In five years, 288 new prisons are scheduled to be opened. The entire country has already been returned to open prison with the State of Emergency practices. Every day we get complaints from prisons, inmates, rights violations and abuse. Dear friends, opening up prisons, opening new ones, filling up the place, that's not gonna do our country any good. How do you solve prison problems? First, you will stop raising religious and vindictive generations. You will establish peace and peace in the country. You will remove your hand from the citizen's pocket, relieve the tax burden and relieve the citizen. You will receive more than those who bring the money to Malta, and to Man, and to the ships. You will support a modern, scientific and secular educational system. That way, the crime rate will go down, and there won't be any need for prisons, Mr. Secretary. I salute the General Assembly in the hope of a country where peace and peace are held and their prisons are closed.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0181par0131	Thank you, Mr. Hakver. The tenth speaker is Mr. Muharrem Man of Çanakkale. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0182par0136	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Justice Academy. I salute the High Council. How do you establish an independent and impartial judiciary, a state of law? Is it possible for judges and prosecutors to be independent and neutral if the Justice Academy is not independent and neutral? Because the judge and the prosecutors are training at the justice center, and they're being compromised. Of the three people recommended by the Minister of Justice of the Justice Academy, the Council of Ministers determines your government. The Vice Minister of Justice has appointed the vice presidents, so the Turkish Justice Academy has been made a unit of the government, the Ministry of Justice. What was the Academy of Justice built for? He was going to be independent, he was going to be strong, he was going to be autonomous. And we know very well that the candidates for judges and prosecutors who are trained at the Academy of Justice today are also under very serious pressure. The representatives of certain congregations, certain ideologys, are in the Academy of Justice, with certain organizations, and they're trying to derail the candidates of judges, prosecutors, so unfortunately, we see no lessons being learned from the past. The first part of our constitution states that holy religious feelings can never be confused with state and politics. Here, Mr. Secretary, in training at the Academy of Justice, and in the training of judges and prosecutors, do not involve holy religious feelings in the affairs of justice, in the affairs of state, do not allow it. We've all been through this together very recently. Look, every constitution says that the courts are independent and neutral. It's in the Constitution of Korea, it's in the Constitution of Syria, it's written in all constitutions, because a state has to be a state of law, but here's the beginning of it from the Academy of Justice. If the HSK is determined by a person after the Constitutional Amendment on April 16, 2017, and the Justice Academy is unfortunately in this state, if it has been ordered to act, if it has been turned into the backyard of a political party, then it is not possible for you to establish the legal state, independent and impartial judiciary. During the State of Emergency, you also removed the dam in the written examination of the candidates for judges and prosecutors under the Code 680. The dam was 70 points. Starting with the highest score, the successful judge was interviewing candidates for prosecutors. However, now that the threshold has been lifted with a KHK, with the State of Emergency, a candidate can be called for 55, 60 points in place of a candidate who received 100 points and 90 points on the written test. You destroyed Liyakati, justice, justice at the Academy of Justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, true patriotism is possible by establishing justice because justice is the basis of the state. If justice rots, justice collapses, that's when the government is seriously threatened. We also know that the president of the Justice Academy has a real effect on the interview board, and we know that other people actually have a serious effect. We also know that 90 per cent of the elected judges, appointed to the interview commission, are linked to the AKP. The AK PARTY executives themselves were made judges, prosecutors. Their names are known one by one, I won't mention their names here. The district executives of the AK PARTI have been appointed, district executives, council members, judges and prosecutors. The judge selected from the lawyers, all prosecutors are relatives of the AK PARTI executives. How do we establish the state of law? How do we establish justice? How do we do that? But unfortunately, we're far away from that understanding. The Justice Department also has a magazine, the Justice Academy. This magazine contains an article on the experience of the State of Emergency in France. I share with you a quote from the article: Did the basic rights and freedoms suspended in the State of Emergency serve to capture terrorists and prevent acts of terror, or to open new radicalization channels as a cause of polarization, staining, discrimination, alienation, and insecurity? Here in Turkey, because the State of Emergency has suspended fundamental rights and freedoms, unfortunately, it's now over the war on terrorism, it's turned on all opposition, political opposition. And Turkey continues to bleed rapidly during the State of Emergency. The State of Emergency Commission entered into force in January 2017, began its work in May 2017, and began accepting applications only in July. 102 thousand applicants are waiting for a verdict. Mr. Prime Minister said the first decision will be made in November, the first decision will be made in November.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0183par0146	What November?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0182par0147	Look, what day is it today? 102 thousand applications are a very serious victim, along with their families and indirect victims. You've turned hundreds of thousands of people into allies with Ankara. By the way, Mr. Group Deputy President Elitas, a month after December 17th-25th, it was released to social media. Elitaş says: These operations were carried out because of the elements that infiltrated the building of Fetullah Gülen, which infiltrated Fetullah Gülen. What does that mean? There are lawyers, and everyone knows that, although not within the hierarchy of the terrorist organization, it is a crime of aid and abetting. Today you judge thousands of people, tens of thousands of people in this way. Will the prosecutors of the Republic hold a trial against Elistash? I'm amazed when I listen to your speeches.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0184par0150	Who the hell is Mehmet Soylu?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0182par0151	Süleyman Noble. When we listen to the words of Solomon Nobleman, we see that Fetullah was in love with Gulen. He fell in love with Fetullah Gulen. Can you fight such an interior minister? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your struggle with ▪ is certainly not sincere. May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0185par0156	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0182par0157	Look, valuable lawmakers, here's the independent and neutral justice, starting at the law-state Justice Academy, but since we can't do that, we can't judge those who take bribes in this country, we can't judge those who launder money, we can't establish justice. Where the strong are justified, justice is not expected. That's where you got the country. Finally, I would like to say that the Academy of Justice is no longer the backyard of power. Budget means tax, you can budget with taxes collected, but what are you doing? In this country, the budget made by those who built a company in tax Gardens to avoid paying taxes in their own country can never be the public's budget. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0186par0161	Thank you, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0187par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0186par0163	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0187par0164	The speaker also mentioned a speech by giving the name of our Group Chairman, Mr. Elitas. I saw that speech, too. During the period before December 17th, Mr. Elitaş said that all congregations, with a reasonable amount of support from the state, were doing good work with a number of reasons, such as opening schools, opening homes, teaching Turkish abroad, and training abroad, but after December 17th, they became a terrorist organization. So I just wanted to say that we need to evaluate that process before it gets out of their hands.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0186par0165	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the 11th and final speaker is İstanbul MP İlhan Cihaner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Cihaner, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0188par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the Union Association and the Presidential budget. Now, maybe some of our friends will tell us where this League Association came from in the Judiciary. I added that to the beginning of this speech, Mr. Parsak said something about the spirit of the Union Association still in the judiciary and that it was positive. Of course, I have made a commitment to the Board of Judges and Prosecutors. For one thing, first of all, I salute all judicial workers. I think everyone's handing over how important the Council of Judges and Prosecutors is to power, to the country. What we've been going through since 2005, especially since the trial was either seized by the Fetullahist organization or handed over to them, has made it very clear. The main power struggle, as it were, was given around the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors or the Council of Judges and Prosecutors under its new name, turned into such an arena. When I served as a republican prosecutor, this power had a very witty narrative that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors had the power to do anything but make men and women. Indeed, it is, until you're discharged from profession to profession, the appointment, the promotion, all sorts of powers are in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Moreover, that authority has been increased recently, in recent years. At the time, we used to talk about the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors or the issues of the judiciary when they were discussed: Here, the minister and the undersecretary there, that is contrary to independence, without its own secretory, without its budget, so they were always the factors that reduce independence and neutrality. But now many of them have been overcome. He has a secretary, the Inspection Board is connected to the HSK, and his power is increased. But is the HSK, whose power is growing and its primary duty is to conduct the practice of justice objectively, fairly and effectively, really strong, even though these problems have been solved in favour of this board? Of course, it's up on paper, it can be done. But I'm gonna ask you a few questions. We've had friends who've questioned the necessity and meaning of the budget talks we've been conducting over the last few days, and maybe they'll reveal that, too. Let this be compared to Ece Ayhan's great poem of the Unknown Student Memorial. In fact, the one and only common question of the House, the state and the judiciary is, can a person who the president doesn't want be a member of the Council of Judges if he doesn't want to be elected? Can there be an arrangement in the budget against the President's wishes? Did Congress really choose the members of the HSK? Now, on paper, Congress elected HSK members, and that was one of the most propaganda things in the referendum. The judiciary was said to add independence and neutrality and that the judiciary would increase and strengthen its democratic legitimacy. But we know that this was chosen out of the Court, along with the Union Platform and the current coalition partners of the Justice Department -- given two quotas for them. How do we know that? In the karma commission, you know, there would be three times as many candidates for each candidate -- for the vote -- all 34 votes. Out of 85 members, all the candidates who had landed to three hundred and thirty-four votes. Then came the General Assembly. Even those who voted in the karma commission didn't vote for the men they voted for in the mixed commission, and those who were certain who were to be elected in the first place received all standard votes between 330 votes and 340 votes. So we know that HSK was originally set in another authority, elsewhere, and all of it was determined by a single will. The significance of this is: we saw very clearly on July 15th where the symptoms that this would cause when we pretended to choose the parliament as independent, as if we had done as Mish. So we shouldn't pretend. It could be, it could be a choice. As a matter of fact, the RTÜK model was discussed, but let's call it what it is, whoever chooses it. Now, a hundred high judges will be elected. A very dangerous path has been opened here, especially through the dilute of the high judiciary. Believe me, it's going to be the same with the change in power. First these are inadequate. They will be called, increased in numbers, and then a law will be passed and sorted out. This vicious cycle, this practice of judgment, will unfortunately continue, and perhaps many of the current judges, prosecutors, will account for their decisions now, just as the Fetullahist judges, prosecutors, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will, will. When I talked to the judge about the HSYK budget for 2016, I made a call to the prosecutors. The judiciary produces values, references that hold society together; if it ceases to produce those values and references, if it destroys the opposite, Turkey will no longer be able to keep itself together, and it will be resolved. I'd like to give you a few examples right here, because what we call judgment is objective. For example, a member of the United States called our MP a member of the United States. The D.A. gave it non-observation. Think, please, that a member of the AKP has told a member of parliament that a citizen is a bizibidi, and that's freedom of thought. You're a whore to a congressman again. You are still serving as the servant of the Armenian, Byzantine. He said to our women's MP. They've given this one an instigation, there's no room for punishment. They say it's illegal. But the next thing you know, a political criticism by our Party Assembly is immediately called into question. They'll all be accounted for, believe me. But what's important here is to build an impartial and independent judiciary that will keep society together once and reveal that the judiciary is not something that can be taken. Here, the biggest task falls to the HSK.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0189par0182	Mr. Cihaner, please wrap it up, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0188par0183	The HSK must first get rid of its political guardianship, its presidential guardianship and the custody of unity in the judiciary. The custody of unity in the judiciary... he really seems to be running the original dynamic right now. And it turns out they're making a new move to isolate the social democrat and nationalist elements inside, along with these fixed general board applications. After we don't get rid of it, there will be trial practices that always ask each other to account for it. It is now necessary to accept that this threat of fetullahism has been significantly eliminated, and perhaps to give up this system, which was appropriate at the beginning. I'll give you another example, and if you're digesting it... I didn't get my friend's approval, but since HDP Deputy Leader Ahmet Yıldırım said that he was an asshole, look, think of the insults we've been given, think of the harsh blasphemy, they're all being called freedom of thought, but since he said that he's being granted a non-stop, non-preservation year, maybe he'll be reduced to parliament in the coming days. Is this the kind of practice for AKP MPs to start next term, or is this the kind of revenge process to return? I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0190par0187	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Mr. Bridgel, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0191par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, have just been discussed, but this is a very important issue, and we, as lawmakers, are in charge of protecting this land, and we have to ask our questions on certain issues. Now, on 25 March 2015, Minister of National Defence Ismet Yilmaz, in a discussion with the National Movement Party at that time, says that in response to this arrangement with agreements, the EGADAAK (EGAYDAAK) -- the sovereignty of the islands and cliffs that were not left to Greece -- Greece's actual practices do not change their legal status. This is a decision made by international courts. In this case, the EGAYDAAKs are legally dominated by the Republic of Turkey. Now, Mr. Vice President of the group says: "No, there is no such thing." But today, a minister of the government, the Minister of National Defence at that time, says: "There is. Now, what is the contradiction between these two? Let them come out and explain to you which of the islands is incumbent upon you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0192par0198	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0193par0199	Do I have your word, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0192par0200	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0194par0201	If he's going to explain it, give it to him. If he won't explain it, why are you giving it to him?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0193par0203	Mr. President, dear friends, we're doing budget interviews, discussing the agenda of each ministry itself. Today's Ministry is our Ministry of Justice with Development, Environment and Urbanism. I think it's a good-willed approach to being persistently bringing up other issues when it should be about these things.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0194par0204	That's the answer?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0193par0205	I told you, I'm telling you again: we spoke to Mr. Ozkoc, Deputy Group President of the CHP, and I gave them the information. Our Secretary of State has given us a very detailed report on this in the commission. I'd like to state that it's not right to discuss this in public, that you've given me information about this. I want to say over and over again that it's not right to carry this as if they didn't know about it. But let me be clear: from 1996 to today, there has been no change in the legal or actual state of any island. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0195par0209	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0196par0210	Do you have any before 1996? I do. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0197par0254	Congressmans, now it's the People's Democratic Party Group's turn to speak. The first speaker is İstanbul MP Erdal Atash. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Paper, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0198par0259	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the agenda of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism normally deals with the living areas of man and all living-living beings. Naturally, there has to be a ministry that protects these places, protects their cultural assets, historical values, all of the structures that are made for people's habitats here, and somehow plans them without destroying other elements of nature, without harming them. In the world -- pretty much every area -- there are mistakes and wrong projects made by environmental and urban ministries. But there's a Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in our country that unfortunately began to play a role in opening all the historical sites, parks, meadows, olive groves, green fields, all of their protected areas to large, shapeless, rich buildings that were destroying all of the cities with their historical textures, with trade logic alone. Especially in this recent period, during these few years, this destruction has been completely destroyed. It's a part of the economy that's already been divided into 120 billion, which is the Security, the MGK, the MSCE, the Gendarme, the Defense Industry, the Undersecretary; in addition to this entire budget, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has become almost an event institution in which I can turn the possibilities of this country -- its areas, its historical sites, all of them -- into incomes, all of them -- and somehow I can offer capital to these areas, or somehow to the supporters. So instead of renovating it with its budget, renovating our environment, our nature, rebuilding cities with all its natural beauty, unfortunately, it's become the form of the allow-to board, which completely obliterates them. With every bag of legislation, given that we've studied this last year -- an environmental destruction, a destruction to the cities, a destruction to the coast is coming to our agenda. On one hand, we discussed Zonguldak, Tripoli, others over hospitals, on the shores; again, we discussed all the laws that were brought into all the laws that had been passed in all those laws, which had destroyed Tyre, Cizre, the others, almost thousands of years of history, and that which had been imposed upon them, the olive groves, all the other areas, and all the other areas of the small minority. During this period of power in the area of the city -- as they say in their own mouths -- in this period of power -- in this period of time -- in the form of urbanism -- the betrayed cities that have emerged, the cities that have been sold parcels, all the values of this city, all the land spaces that have been offered to communities and other places, with their thousands of years of history, and only a policy that has been forced to destroy and destroy places like this, and in a new way, we are being able to turn the names of the people who have made fun and opened up all those dates; the road, the bridge, airport projects, the cities that have destroyed all the cities, including Istanbul, and the cities that don't have changed back again, with money; they're being called by a massive transformation. Only today, President Nacmi Kadioğlu of Esenyurt Municipality, which was widely discussed, left his post in hand, leaving behind great destructions, after he was discussed with all his destructions. Despite our opposition to the policies imposed on Cizre and Sur, security and so on, all of them were turned into demolition sites, including the areas of Idil, Silopi, Cizre, Şırnak, Yüksekova, which had no ditch issues, where the people were victims, who were cut off from their economic and cultural areas, who were sent to cities and joined the unemployed army. In the hunt and other cases, a great slaughter continues against animals, street animals, and others. And at this point, unfortunately, in some way, this Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, rather than being blocked by other ministries, is more encouraged, and all of these, including all of those street animals, are left to automobiles and similar accidents in cities throughout their lives. Now they've brought up another full-fledged law, so all the rights earned by fighting against all of these destructions -- all of the courts -- are being re-opened by a new bill of law, trying to eliminate all gains. What's in the new law? The high national interests, the public interest, the strategy, the security, the country's central plans, all of these conservation areas -- nature parks, nature parks, species and habitats, all of them in the form of six stadiums, all of these areas of environmental protection, will have been opened entirely on the ground along with the new law. With four basics, all of the protective armor in this matter is wanted to be removed. What's all this? First, besides all those protected areas, the Forest and Water Affairs Ministry will be able to put aside all other ministries -- so it's Agriculture, it's Environment and Urbanism, it's Tourism -- all of these statuses in one status, so it'll have the right to collect a historical city or any other, one park in one status; it'll have the right to cancel all the statuses. Again, narrowing them down to all of these statuses, lowering them to four positions of protection and use as they please, allowing them to be used in any way by opening them to their Rantfields. So in a way, all of these rights, along with the CEDs or the courts and other challenges, will be eliminated with a decision from the Ministry, and it will be made permanent. Let's say a place with absolute protection today, when a company is applied tomorrow, it will be removed from being a containment field at any time, and it will be destroyed at the same time. All of the destructions that he has done will not be punished in any way, either you will restore it, and if you do not, you will pay small fines, and you will close the matter. All the struggles against nature -- Cerattepe, Gezi, and others -- were considered to provoke one, and the other was the game of the outside forces; and in the fight against the Green Road, there was the runaway building of Mother Havva. On the other hand, they say they're a bunch of peasants. They say they're a game of ideological organizations in Bergama, in Munzur. They're saying they want to do a political rate. It says, "Those who don't have a job or want to make a result out of it are trying to eliminate them with accusations in the form of the Kaz Mountains." At the renewable energy point, 1,500 HES and other dams will be built, as the minister described yesterday; again, nuclear power plants are being built in the same way. Where in the world do all these dams and nuclear plants become renewables? So in the old days, after the Chernobyl accident, nothing happens to us in the Black Sea. And now, unfortunately, we're dealing with a minister who brought Chernobyl to our country, brought him to Akkuyu, who brought him to our country, and we're going to get to the first place in the people's renewable energy. It's not all about the money. So, of course, studies can be done for this country's economy, but there comes a time when we have to give up money and have the wealth of this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Give me a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0199par0271	All right, come in, finish up, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0198par0272	So what we need to do in all of this is we need to continue this issue with the policy of protecting what is present in this country, at least with the policy of adding new ones to it, by competing, by running projects with concepts that include all of these occupational organisations, local peoples, their institutions, experts, and all of those public institutions in the region. In addition to all of this, I say that we, the HDP, will continue to fight against the people, the ecology institutions, all of these destruction projects for all living, lifeless beings, and all of these policies against the Ranta. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0200par0276	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. Second speaker, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0201par0281	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, the Democratic Party of Peoples for the central budget of the Ministry of Development in 2018. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, development is directly related to economic growth, as well as to the level of prosperity and quality of life. The quality of education, access to health care, employment opportunities, income level, utensil areas, or environmental factors, is directly related to development. Therefore, it is not enough to explain a country's indicator of development with economic growth and data alone. In this sense, the United Nations has developed a tool to measure the level of development of countries. What is this vehicle, valued lawmakers? Human Development Index. The Human Development Index consists of three components - health, education and income, each with a lower index. The United Nations has published a human development report since 1990 to measure the level of development of countries. The latest report included 188 countries. Turkey has shown a improvement in education, health and income over the years, but when we look at the world ranking, it is not different from 1995, we are ranked 71st among 188 countries. Unfortunately, in 20 years, we've only been able to maintain our position, and that's all we've accomplished. In other areas, it's not good. We are the 100th ranking in the Rule of Law Index in 113 countries. We're in the 155th place in 180 countries in freedom of the press. We are number 146 in 163 countries in the World Peace Index. Without the rule of law, without freedom of the press, without peace, would there be development, dear lawmakers? The Ministry of Development's main task is to determine economic, social and cultural policy and goals that will be followed by identifying all the resources and resources of our country that are natural and human and economic. So, where is the Ministry of Development in these goals? Taxes form the largest income pen in the country. I'm afraid we can't get any of the mid-term and long-term programs right. This lack of plan is being paid back to the public. An active labour market has not been created for years. We're unable to produce high-velocity value products. In the last 15 years, our exports of high-tech products have dropped from six percent to three percent, and we've become unable to produce high-end products. So as an AK PARTY that's been in power for 15 years, do you realize that you haven't been able to keep up with the programs you've been targeting, or do you get that information? Dear lawmakers, human capital is fleeing our country. The young people of this country, the people with dreams, the people with ideas, leave the country one by one. The universities are being emptied, turned into nonprofits. How's that for progress? Without human capital, without ideas, without imagination, without human capital? Don't get up, okay? What's progress? Of course it's produced. Who makes the production? The workers, the workers. The situation of our workers is pathetic. In unsecured working conditions, dozens of workers lose their lives every day in the exploitation order. At least 170 workers lost their lives in last November and at least 1,851 in the first 11 months of the year. That's no way to develop. A country that can't guarantee the safety of its laborer, who pays on the edges of hunger, can't, unfortunately. When the EC PARTY comes to power, 1 percent of the population has 38 percent of the wealth, while they now have 60 percent. Capital owners, contractors, bosses may have improved, but workers, civil servants, teachers, students, housewives, shopkeepers, unfortunately, can't get up. And while we're talking about development, I'd like to say a few words about regional inequality, valued lawmakers. WHEN the EC PARTY comes to power, East Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia, the Black Sea are now in the same situation, and even some of our regions have worsened. Development agencies have been established to ensure the current and effective use of resources, to stimulate local potential, to speed regional development, to reduce the difference in inter-state and inland development. There are serious sources, but the agencies don't have a strategic plan. Look, I'm not saying that, but the Court audit report says that 26 development agencies don't have strategic plans. How is there going to be development without planning, without strategizing? Are the people who work in these agencies incompetent? Why aren't there strategy plans? How often are these agencies inspected as ministers? Shouldn't the development agencies be doing their duty, dear lawmakers? You know, TÜİK announced regional national income tax statistics from 2004-2014. Istanbul and the Marmara region's share in the national income continues to rise. However, the help of the Aegean Region, particularly Izmir, is falling from national income. Again, Ankara's contribution to national income is falling. Again, the agricultural and tourism region, Antalya and its environment, are reducing its contribution to national income. The contribution of 18 provinces to the national income of the Black Sea lane has again declined. The contribution of 21 counties in the east and southeast to national income was 6.9 per cent in 2004, while only 7.1 per cent in 2014. Now, in light of this data, can we say that development is sufficient? Can we talk about development outside Istanbul and the Marmara District? Dear MPs, education, health care, income level, rule of law, freedom of the press, are actually directly related to development. Another thing related to development is cultural and natural wealth. The 15-year-old AK PARTY is destroying this country's natural resources and cultural wealth, under the name of absorption. Hasankeyf is one of the most important examples. As you know, Germany, Austria and Switzerland withdrew their support for the project due to social, cultural and environmental effects. We, however, decided to destroy a twelve thousand-year-old cultural heritage for a dam that didn't last a hundred years. Without culture, without history, there can be no development, precious MPs. The Green Road Project is the same. For tourism and development, we have to create projects that don't destroy nature, that don't harm the ecological system. Look, we've had the negative effects of the Black Sea Coast Road Project, and we're still living. Because of the road that serves as a set, streams, teas, rivers, unfortunately, cannot meet the seas. Every flood that happens takes its toll, the ecosystem is damaged, thousands of lives are lost. You have to know that if you destroy water-dividing and water-melting lines in nature, these kinds of disasters will happen. What's development without natural and ecological sensitivity? Of course not. Finally, I'd like to say a few things to the Turkish Statistical Agency, valued lawmakers. As you know, statistical data is the key to understanding the past, directing today and planning the future. Turkey's Statistical Agency stands in a very important place for the health-planning of the future, for the creation of effective policies. Unfortunately, however, as in other areas, our distinguished institution is not being properly employed because of the pressure of political power. It serves as a buffer in criticism of the Adeta Government. See, economics expert Kork Boratav Hoxha says, "TİK's new national income accounts are malfunctioning, it contains unreliable elements, and it's not safe to use them as they are. Later, the revisions and corrections that economists can do can't create a common database that everyone can use. As the TÜİK insists, it will undermine healthy, reliable work on Turkey's economy. One of Turkey's most important economists, unfortunately, says that. Playing with numbers just to make the government a little more comfortable is one of the worst things to do to this country. What does Turkey need, precious MPs? In what areas are we short? What are we doing right, what are we doing wrong? What areas should be invested in? What investments are more important? Where are the areas of trouble? We actually need to examine these one at a time. There's no reliable data on these, there's no development, there's no economic growth, there's no investment. In this sense, I complete my words and salute you all again by reminding you of the importance of making the work of the TÜİK (TİK) in the light of scientific data.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0202par0296	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The third speaker is Mr. Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0301	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, believe me, this is almost the way my talks about this GAP. I've been talking all the time for the sixth, seventh year. I've been talking about what I've been talking about before, and I've been reading, and I have to say the same thing today. And I'm a little upset. I mean, I wish there were different situations, developments, progresses, problems solved, and I wouldn't have been like this on April 23rd, when I read the same poem every year, but unfortunately, the same thing happens over and over again. Now, what is this GAP when it's said: GAP, of course, is a story of about sixty-seven years in Turkey, starting from the Menderes period of power, continuing during the period of Solomon Demirel's rule, as of those dates to the entire world -- perhaps even today -- a project presented as Turkey's greatest project. And there's also a well-known expression in all the state's reports, so there's an expression going everywhere, it's said that there's going to be 3,800,000 jobs in industry, tourism, health, culture, education, when it's finished in the districts that include the provinces of Adıyaman, Urbana, Mardin, Şırnak, Siirt and Batman.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0204par0305	72% of this is in Antwerp.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0306	So this is going to be a population of about 20 million, so it's going to be a population of 20 million if you calculate one digits from the average five people in the region. So, how many populations are there today? According to population records dated 31/12/2016, there are 8.5 million populations in these cities, so 11.5 million people will come when this project is completed as of today. E, is there anything better than that, come on, but unfortunately, dear friends, we've been saying the same thing for years... 90 percent of the dams in GAP have now been finished, such as a Urbana Ataturk Dam, Keban Dam, Karakaya Dam, Silvan Dams, dozens of dams and ponds. Some of these were finished twenty years ago, twenty-five years ago, but as of today, 60 percent of the irrigation channels are not finished. The Ataturk Dam was watered 20 or so years ago, but yet the waters of that dam have not crossed the Derik, which is not beyond the Viranşehir border. Now, of course, every year we ask: Why? Why? And we get similar answers. So, sir, there are some years, some years, some years, it's said, "Well, that's not what you know, these are not projects that are going to end in a year, two years, these have time, they have term, they have term." And so on and so forth. Now, as for time and money, let's go to item one and number two. When we look at these 1st and second articles, Turkey finished things so quickly, I'll give you an example. The third throat bridge, the Izmit-Bursa Road -- the famous Gulf Pass -- is the Eurasia Tunnel, which is the same thing as our big airport, where 1,800 trucks and 200 work machines work at all speeds now -- the third airport, which averagely has three years to finish, and each one of them is giant projects, $3 billion, $5 billion, $10 billion, projects. So Turkey has money, and time is no excuse. Well, what could it be? Here's a third claim: sir, this isn't over because of the terrorist incidents.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0205par0311	The government didn't do this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0312	If the government wouldn't let him, if he didn't give up his project, if he didn't give up his contract, his loans were from the Public Bank, the Foundations Bank, the Agriculture Bank. Mr. Tanal, I don't want to talk about this again as a businessman, we all know how it is.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0205par0313	No, the government didn't pay for it, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0314	The government vouched for all of this; I don't go into internal loans, I don't go into external loans, I don't go into these details. You stole a minute and a half of my ten minutes, Mr. Tanal, and I'll take it from you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0205par0316	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0317	Don't mention it. So the government has money, power, and time. Again, as for these events, ye have finished the hees in the mountains of Kulp. You have finished the dam of Ilisu between Tur Abdin and Botan in Kerboran. The Ataturk Dam is finished, Karakaya is finished, the King's daughter is finished, and the Tigris Dam is finished. So, well, this didn't happen or happened on the mountain, and yet these dams ended, but why didn't they end at the Plain of Urbana, on the Plain of Kızıltepe, on the Plain of Diyarbakir, on the Plain of Diyarbakir? Dear friends, we believe there is a deep state mind. Unfortunately, these canals are delayed in order for the migration to continue west so that these 20 million populations don't come, don't gather, socioeconomic status, ethnic structure, social balances don't change in favor of the public. There's no other explanation. So let Mr. Veysel Eroglu, who is the minister or State Water Affairs General, who is the minister of this matter, say, "My brother, this is why this is not over." When the EC PARTI came to power, this would be over in 2012, then it was revised to 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017; when we arrived at 2018. In Diyarbakır alone, there will be a new job opening for 500,000 people after the Silvan Dam Project is finished. The entire social structure will change: culture, economics, relationships, education. For him, dear friends, I say the same thing every year, I say the same things. Please let a minister or prime minister come out and explain why they haven't been finished yet, but let him say something reasonable, if there's anything reasonable. I don't think so, I'm afraid not. And then there's what we call this job, it's called not just the irrigation channel and the dam; there's airports, there's highways, there's universities, there's railroads. It's a big project that's connected. This one has a master's plan; 50 years, 60 years, he's had a master's plan. We don't know how much this has been revised. I mean, I looked at all the sources before I got here, whether these revisions were done or not, there's no serious revision. For example, one of the most important feet is education. Today there are over 100,000 students in Eskişehir, Konya, and Erzurum, which I repeat, in the universities of Eskişehir, Conium, and Erzurum. The population of Erzurum is 400 thousand, and over 100,000, there are 102 thousand students. Diyarbakır, city centre is over 1 million, province population is 1,674,000; one of the oldest universities is founded in the 1970s, and the number of students is 32 thousand. Isparta is less than Süleyman Demirel University.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0206par0323	Why?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0324	Why? A deep mind doesn't want 100,000 young people there. Very good, God bless you, you ask: Why?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0206par0325	There's terror, isn't it possible that people don't prefer it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0326	No, he doesn't have a staff. You're right if the staff stays empty.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0206par0327	No.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0203par0328	Look, you're asking such simple questions. Now, if there were a staff, if there were 100,000 students, as you say -- in the nail -- if the student doesn't prefer it because of terrorism, we'll say, "My brother, the state has opened school, he's given 150 quotas to medical school, 50 people have arrived, 100 people haven't come." Well, why don't you? Flights from Diyarbakır to Europe will begin by air for three years, today, tomorrow, the day after; it will not begin. Some days 21 planes land a day, 21 planes leave Diyarbakır, all planes full, full. I want the numbers -- I'm making a motion to ask -- from Turkish Airlines, Anatolianjet. What's your average number of passengers? What's the average ticket price? What's profit, what's loss? Therefore, the GAP must be planned as a whole, along the highway, as a whole, as a whole, as a whole, as a road, as a highway, as a distance from Urbana-Habur to Mardin, as a railway line to Mosul, as a whole. We're waiting for a reasonable answer, but we know we won't. My respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0207par0331	Thank you, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0208par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0207par0333	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0208par0334	Mr. President, the dear orator has told me a lot about Şanliurfa, the State Water Affairs, the Ministry. The Hilvan district of Şanlıurfa is five miles from the Ataturk Dam, where there is still no drinking water and the drinking water smells of fish. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0207par0336	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Aslan, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0209par0340	Thank you. While the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is here, while the Ministry of Justice is here, and especially when Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate is here, I would like to ask the question: I've already submitted it as a law proposal, including hundreds of thousands of victims of Tapu Kadastro in the region and Turkey. It is that when the first deed is performed, many of our people, our citizens' fields, their gardens, are recorded in treasured goods, and the Treasury, from time to time, sells it and victimizes citizens and citizens. That is why many murders have been committed in the region and different cities in Turkey. The murder of the Wise Village is the most concrete, unfortunately, an example. The ruling MPs in the region, for example -- I know -- in Derizbine, in Keferhuvar, in Künderallap, in Kınderip, in Epse, in Şorizbah, in Hebsines, in the region, have promised, when we come to power, we will relieve you of this injury. Please, let them enlighten us on this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why didn't your citizen get rid of the victim, and why did they say no to our proposal for the law? There's a big problem with that. And for the people is a tillage of their fathers and their grandparents, and a garden in which is a treasure, and it is sold to other people by way of auction. Please, we want information and answers on this matter.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit04spe0210par0346	Thank you, Mr. Lion. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0211par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, after a three - week fast by the Ezidi community for three weeks each year, we celebrate the Eid Festival of Ezidi society. At the same time, three Ezidi children from 5 to 7 years old were rescued by a Syrian family and brought to the consulate of Iraq in Gaziantep during the 2014 attack on Shengal. Our deputy, Ali Atalan, has also contributed here, and our deputy has expressed his thanks to all those who supported the rescue of these children. Meanwhile, thousands of women are still in the hands of ISIS. We hope this holiday will also lead to their salvation. Mr. President, I'd like to make one small point because we're all here under the roof of this House, and I'm afraid it's about a friend of ours, Ankara 13. There's an interesting decision made by the Supreme Court, indeed. After the Constitutional Commission talks, there was a motion to object to the decision to expel our MPs after protesting and leaving the Commission -- in accordance with their agreements, counselors must be present with the MPs -- even though a consultant is constant when he does not utter slogans, which is that he does not agree with anything there, although he does not agree with the environment where he is not disturbed. So today we're in a situation where we're actually being judged by reading intent. We're in a time when there's really a time when there's a trial of intentional reading.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0212par0011	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0211par0012	There's no reason not to be disturbed. We would especially like to express that we are uncomfortable with this decision. In the same way, it is another issue that we are uncomfortable with the Diyarbakır Governor's ban on the Human Rights Film Festival today. Now, if a film festival can't be held at the Human Rights Film Festival, there's really no point in talking about rights and justice in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0213par0015	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. We too celebrate Ezidi people's Eid. Mr. Felaknas Uca, the MP of Ezidi, is in fact saying that we are celebrating the festival of the entire people of Ezidi. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account İstanbul MP Celal Doğan, who is now fourth in the name of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0214par0065	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the Justice Department budget, Mr. Secretary, there is no minister. The Minister was here this morning.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0213par0066	There is no Minister, yes, but...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0214par0067	He watched the other parties talk. He also knows that it will be the turn of the People's Democratic Party. If he's not here on purpose, I'm counting the conversation as a loss, so I don't think it's true.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0213par0068	Mr. Turan, can we reach the Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0215par0069	Mr. President, of course we can, our Minister is here, in the meeting, right next door.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0213par0070	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0215par0071	However, it's a representation of the government. As a representative of the government, our Minister is already here, so I say we keep in touch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0216par0072	But the Department of Justice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0217par0073	Mr. President, he'll be in general negotiations. You can't make it a reality. Many times the ministers are present as representatives of the government in general talks, but we're going to talk about his budget. He's not supposed to be here...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0215par0074	Mr. President, the management style here is based on the Civil Code. It is a representative of the government, which is required by the Civil Code. The government is now represented. But, on top of that, I'm going to meet with our Minister and invite him. But let's get started, let's get back to our meetings.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0218par0075	Well, Mr. Dogan, if you'd like, I'd like to invite the other speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0217par0076	Yes, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0218par0077	Okay?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0217par0078	If he's gonna talk, let him talk.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0219par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0220par0080	Mr. President, it doesn't apply to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0221par0081	Let's take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0219par0082	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0220par0083	No, Mr. President, the government is already here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0219par0084	Mr. President, the same thing happened yesterday.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0222par0085	Now, in the budget for the Justice Department, the lawmakers' demand that the Minister of Justice be here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0219par0086	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0223par0087	Our Attorney General's undersecretary is here, he's here, he's following the bureaucrats.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0219par0088	Mr. Turan, the same thing happened yesterday. There was no Minister of Family and Social Policy, the same way, there was no Minister of Energy and Natural Resources; they came, took a break and came. So that's what happened yesterday. So, Mr. President, I'd like you to take a break.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0224par0089	Mr. Turan, why don't I take a five-minute break, and you guys try to reach out, okay?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0223par0090	We'll get there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0224par0091	At least give me the request.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0223par0092	But it's not the right way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0225par0093	That's what happened yesterday.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit05spe0224par0094	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. İstanbul MP Celal Doğan will now speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0226par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to say that my insistence on the Minister's arrival is partly due to my past-based law. He's the grandson of a very respectable thing. I'd like you to know Mehmet Emin Er. I'd like those who don't know to read it. Except that I had the honor of recognizing the rehabilitation of the feuds in our district. In terms of his knowledge, there's nothing to say anyway. It's out of the question. Most of the people found in the government's bureaucracy, including Mr. Recep, Abdulkadir Aksu, are people who have been through much of the process, including Cemil Cicek. He was born when I was a congressman in 1977. That's why I thought I had that right. I insisted he come. Thank you. A dear friend of mine just complained about Parliament's participation, said it was incomplete. This is not the number of Parliaments, it is the temple of democracy, it has remained open in the Battle of Salvation. Therefore, the lack of numbers or abundance does not mean much, even if it is a person. The government is complete, complete, complete. Now, even if there is no one in Parliament, with respect to its history, we'll continue to speak out of respect for the past of this House. Actually, it's new, I don't think I've seen much of the three ministries, the four ministries' budgets being discussed on the same day. Maybe it was useful to buy time. There are three very valuable ministers. I'm going to address the Ministry of Justice, but there's the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- there's no Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Özhaseki, but let me tell you something about him when he's not around. Mr. Özhaseki is a valued mayor who has been mayor for four semesters. However, there are mayors in Turkey who have a theme. Do you remember Mr. Nalçaçı in Iconya? In his hometown, there's Mr. Cantaloupe. If there are no slums in two cities in Turkey today, it's because of their development. If he were here, Mr. Özhaseki, he was mayor of different parties in his province, and Bahçecioğlu of the Republican People's Party, I have never seen him remove anyone's name from the signs, remove any pictures from the halls, or bring a stain on the names of Mr. Kavuncu. But I've been mayor for fifteen years, I'm a big city mayor, I'm a man who's worked every bit of the city, and Mr. Secretary is a grown-up in that city, one of the first schools we've left, a peaceful city, a clean city, Celal Doğan, in all the districts of Kilis. I'd like to say that I've never heard of you in Besni, Sunday, and Gaziantep. From there, Mr. Minister of the Environment, I'd like to make a statement to our Minister of the Environment that there is such a thing as giving away rights, what is that? The foundation of the Public Housing Administration in Turkey is before the EC PARTY, but there are areas where it is very successful. Sir, the public housing has done this, it has done this, it has created Rant, it is true; it has addressed particularly high-income groups, but in Turkey's tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of homes that are needed in many places, in fact, in its construction, you have to appreciate and give away the speed and performance it has shown, which is one. Secondly, I have a recommendation to Mr. Ozhaseki: I advise the AK PARTY group to give up its role as Metin Ashkunk, especially in creating an agenda. When there is a very scandalous incident in Turkey, it will immediately become an earthquake. It is the role of Metin Ashunk. I advise him not to take it personally. Another issue, Mr. Minister of Development, is here, Mr. Elvan, you know Gaziantep, a truly respectable province of Turkey, and a city we will be proud of. It was a city that produced 585 factories when I left, but it wasn't enough for Gaziantep. $7 billion was a city that exported only to Iraq. And that's not enough, because our Minister of Development will have to be identified at this point: development doesn't happen with the construction industry. It's in the middle sector, it's in the engine, it reduces unemployment. There will be no development in the country without creating added value, especially without shifting employment into industry and added value. There will be no peace or prosperity in the country. That's why I'd like to bring my words to the Ministry of Justice, wishing my fellow ministers the best of budgets. Minister, in 1920 the first Minister of Justice of Turkey is Celalettin Arif Bey. You're the 84th Minister. So if you look at the rankings of the Justice Ministers today, you won't find the name of a Justice Minister that has a lot of themes, three years from 1920 to 100 years from now. You'll find it in other areas. For example, there are people like Hasan Aali Yücel in education. There are very valuable foreign ministers in foreign policy, but there hasn't been an area where a minister of the Ministry of Justice has gone out because ever since this ministry was founded -- the age with the republic -- has always been a troubled ministry, because the authorities have often tried to keep the ministries as their backyard. So we're dealing with a problem where the Ministry wishes each government would remain in its own hands as a lever. This is clear and registered especially in political cases. Despite not being so dominant in petty crimes, private law, you have a troubled ministry in political cases, or rather, a history of scandals, criminal jurisprudence. To think of the very obvious examples of this, at the beginning of the line, the ruling courts are one of them, one of the martial law courts. Especially Ankara No. 1. The court of martial law is a man who, on the day that Deniz Gezmi and the judge who ruled the execution of his friends, grins at the hanging of our friend, grins at the execution, but chokes on the bite of his throat while he eats. Who is this president? He's also not a judge, he's not a lawyer, he's a man who plays almost double-teamed while signing a death sentence with six months of military training and two years of military training. But the problem is that we hung the seas, but we finished the terror. Those who said, "We didn't finish the terror, nor did they finish the terror, nor did we finish the terror that you're so concerned about today, the anti-empericalist with the anti-emperical struggle of life, the Sea Gezdi and the understanding of your friends began to grow in Turkey today. So yesterday, when the Seas were an anti-empireistist -- along with their friends, those who accused him of being a servant of Russia, Moskof, as a servant of Moskof -- were today in the way of giving the anti-Emperical fight against America instead. Therefore, times change, history changes, conditions change. And there's a constant problem with judgment. What is this? Making the judiciary their own backyard in Turkey. It's the way of the trial, and what we should be paying attention to is that, in extraordinary situations in Turkey, when democracy is suspended, there's always been troubled political decisions. One of them is in Yassiada. So this is the statement of the court that hanged Menderes and his friends, the judge's statement: This is how the administration and will that sent you here wants to do so. Following him came to Turkey on September 12th. Again, state security courts, executions... these days, it's only a matter of time since the anniversary of death was celebrated, you've all heard of Erdal Eren. Erdal Eren was 17. It is one of the twenty-five jobs of the 12 September regime, which ordered the execution of 517 people from one right and one left. So our friend was 17. He's one of the ones who's been executed by a grown-up. Now, for what it's worth, where have we come from on this dark page of our criminal history? On July 15, 2016, we were exposed to the Å movement. It's impossible to count any of the parts of the state that July 15th destroyed, but if you ask me, who are the most destroyed areas? One is the judiciary. You're dismissing over 4,000 judges, and now you, in Turkey, will try to organize a system that will promote justice under these conditions. For him, your job is very difficult. You're a nine-month minister, so I don't want to give you any criticism by taking it upon myself to bring you burdens, criticism, but we also have to learn the mindset. Mentality is very important. If you're... the real reason we've had these two problems in the past is that one is government-oriented, the other is imam-oriented judgment. Look, the conspiracy cases we're talking about... what's someone? Especially in Turkey, like Ergenekon, like the Sledgehammer, you agreed that all cases such as espionage were conspiracy, agreed. Who made such decisions come to life and brought them to the agenda of the judiciary in Turkey? Imam-oriented understanding. What is this? Turkey is not bound by law and justice, it is not bound by conscience, it is not based on universal legal values; it is an imam that people who bring in the guidance of an imam, a اcian understanding, have, after all, brought in the destruction of Turkey in this judiciary. When I say state-oriented, most of you may perhaps rebel, saying, "Is this state not our state?" There are two sides to this state: when you use the gun for peace, when you use it for murder, which we've seen a lot of in this state, we've seen the structures of the state, we've seen the structures of the deep state, we've seen how our friends are eliminated, we've seen how we live, when you put some judges in line, state or human rights? He is the ruler of the state who hanged Menderes, and he who hanged the sea is the understanding. So, in the course of the Justice Department, what does he have to do in a place where there's been so much damage? I don't think it's gonna be just your problem, it's gonna be this whole Parliament's problem. Believe me, I don't have anything to say to the People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Party - your group's work is yours, you make a deal, you make a fine, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you get justice, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it. Because justice isn't just for us, it's for everyone, because justice is essential to this country. Today we see the justice we seek most, like breath, like life, like water, as we seek it. Our MPs who should be in this Parliament are in prison. What legal changes have caused him to change his mind as the Supreme Court ruled? The Constitutional Court is the republic of fear and lack of judicial assurances. The Republic of Fear should not be held captive by judges outside the public. They should feel safe. To feel secure, you have to have legal guarantees. In Turkey, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors should have protected the judges' rights, but we are faced with judges, like the sword of Damocles, who are anxious to decide where to go tomorrow. If I don't make this decision, I'll be banished, and if I don't make this decision, I'll be judged, and I'll be arrested. But you've suffered so much damage that we're facing a court order that will be passed on to magazines as a judgment -- not caricature. I'd like to remind you that the sentence of a criminal court is an example. We're looking at the judge's court order: the verb in Turkish Penal Code is from two to five years. In the verdict signed by the judge, he says, "Go to the defendant, I have sentenced you to two to five years. This is a court order. Now, where is this coming from? I want you to know the level of law schools in Turkey. I went to law school for two years. There's one professor, one professor, one assistant, and that's not law school. Mr. Secretary, it's not in your power, but please tell these views to the authorities. First condition: do not open a new law school in Turkey. Opening a new law school is not a service for Turkey. It's not true that opening a new faculty -- we brag a lot -- means nothing but sending customers to a citizen there. In the old days, the soldiers used to do it, or they'd start a recruitment or they'd form a brigade, and there'd be a tradesman there because there were already customers. Now, you've brought universities to the point where they understand that they can prevent unemployment in the cities or profit from the tradesmen. Don't open these universities. It's not even high school quality, believe me, there are colleges that don't have the quality of daycare; you shouldn't open them. Two: There is only one way to repair this missing, and if you sincerely believe, take the Istanbul Law School, Ankara Law School, Marmara and Aegean universities in comparison. You need at least 5,000 prosecutors and judges, minimum. But not with a sense of partisanism, but with a backyard; really, these friends of ours will serve the judiciary in Turkey. Choose 15 years of lawyers and mobilise the rescue of justice as you call them to the defense of a country in a Liberation War. If, with a two-month training at the academy, you don't have 5,000 judges equipped with lawyers who graduated from schools at this level, neither your life in power nor ours has the chance to see this justice improve. He'll grow up from law school, five years from now the student will graduate, intern, something like that, and then he'll come back, and he'll judge Turkey, and he'll hand out justice; that's not possible. The point is, you have a dead-end street -- you can't get out of it -- or rather, you've got justice locked up -- peace sentences. It's a freak in the history of justice to have the jurisdiction of the court of justice do so. When a defendant was referred to court, he went to the magistrate after the prosecution. The magistrate would either arrest him or release him. There was a place for the citizen to object to when that magistrate arrested him. What is it? The main thing was to appeal to the criminal judge. What's the reason he went to the original criminal judge? If the magistrate had a five-year record, the original criminal judge was a judge with a minimum 15 years of record, an experienced judge. What are you doing now? You're making another magistrate object to the magistrate of peace. The prison doors have two keys: one, the people you put in when you open them; the second, the key you use when you leave. They are both handed over to the magistrates. I don't claim, perhaps it's too heavy, all of which are judges who have been chosen intentionally and willingly. They're judges who deliberately and willingly entered under brandage. That's a saying. Now, the way to get Turkey out of this is to hand over the rights to go to the original punishment in the procedures of the judicial courts, which is the appeal, one. Secondly, I've heard a saying recently about the laws of the law. It's not enough for the prosecutor to act in order to retrial the court's decision of non-obsession in the court of justice in order to retribut new evidence, it's one. There's no time, I'll try to take a minute, but I wish it wasn't like this. Second: the Zarrab matter. Don't take the Zarrab case as a national case. Nationality is a very different event. The starting point of nationalism is the Defence-I Law in Turkey, the anti-empiralist fight. You have to come from that drive, that understanding. The case of Zarrab is a matter of................ Mr. President may have said the most ambitious thing, we have the right to trade, these are our neighbours, America can't get involved. This is a stance, look, this is a stance. It has no validity in the world, and it has no validity in this regard, but it does not apply to the courts. It has no validity in preventing the future punishment of the world, but it's a proper stance. So, where are we gonna put those shits, where are we gonna put those pitches? America doesn't tell you, brother, I'll gather your case to judge you. You hacked into my system, used my dollar. You used tools to get into my system to use my dollar. He says. Who did you use? The people in charge were tarred. He says, "They stole." He says, "They were drunk." I wish they hadn't, but they didn't, and we didn't have to get to the point where America's imperialist system courts would put our country on international trial.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0227par0035	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0226par0036	I'm completing it. This bird was here, you know. He was an award-winning friend in this diamond. In what field? Jewelry. Yesterday it was jewelry, today it was tin. I wonder how you got this can out of here. You had it. If this bird hadn't flown out of your hands, as far as I know in the American system, there'd be no judgment in the body -- at least we wouldn't have suffered that humiliation. We're all bees, we're all men of honor, a blow to the nation's court, a blow to our sovereignty. You guys have really big flaws in this, big flaws. For what I'm saying, it's a coup, it's an aide to your general, it goes into your Foreign Minister's private room, it's not a second-class guard in the Presidential mansion, it's a first-class police commissioner. Who managed Turkey? Were you sleeping? I wish you all the best not to sleep.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0228par0041	We've answered them in good faith.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0229par0042	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now, fifth speaker, Batman MP Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0230par0047	Mr. President, it's a little difficult to speak after Mr. Celal Doğan, someone with such experience. But he gave a speech that actually sums up the Turkish legal system, the Turkish justice system. There's not much need left for me to recap from this angle. But in the circumstances we're in today, it's also tragic to talk about the Justice Department's budget in an environment where we're most unfair, we're most looking for justice, we're looking for justice, there's no justice. Because, as you know, we've already been run by the State of Emergency for a long time. We're in a process where justice comes out of one person's mouth in one sentence. Actually, we're in a process where the decrees are issued, not the law, and we're trying to talk about the budget here. Dear friends, I'm going to talk about the budget of the Department of Justice for the General Directorate of Penalties and Investigations. When we look at the justice ministry's budget, we see that the largest share of the budget is divided into the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships, 31.9%. Turkey's Ministry of Justice's budget goes here at maximum. And secondly, it's a very important statistic that we can actually give: according to the population, we were the third countries after America and Israel in the highest prison population. There are probably Palestinians in Israel and Kurds in Turkey. Dear friends, now we need to look at a little punishment and historical infrastructure of crime while we talk about prisons. In fact, punishment and crime have not been invented, but since the world's first existence, since the first day of human history, both known history, unknown literature, and many of the mythological texts have been discussed and discussed, crime and punishment. The Klan has actually been used many forms of punishment from tribal communities until today, but in the modern legal system, it has been left aside in the way that the clan, as in the tribe, takes revenge on families, and the punishments have been personalized. So in modern law, the punishment passed in international law is treated with a preconception that it's personal, that it's personal, if it's actually applied. But it's true, when we look at the Turkish legal system, we actually embrace the individuality of the European Convention on Human Rights and other laws in the Turkish Penal Code, but unfortunately in Turkey, punishments do not apply personally in terms of the procedures in prisons; they are applied to a whole community in order to influence the family in other dimensions of the penal code, and they are now subjected to collectively, socialized punishment. Where do we see this most? In fact, we see them at funerals that are never spoken or talked about. Funerals of the murdered, funerals of the deceased, are being destroyed and shared on social media. He thinks the government is punishing him in some way, but with him, as if it wasn't enough, the whole family and society are being punished. This, as I said, is a completely contrary to the principle of individuality of punishment. How does the individuality of these punishments disappear in prisons? Exiles don't exist. Our Minister of Justice is here, and the final process is the process of the most exiles. The person himself is on trial in Diyarbakır, but on the other side of the country, Edirne is being held in prison. The most important examples are: Look, Abdullah Zeydan is being tried in Diyarbakır, Hakkari, Edirne. He is being tried in Ankara. In fact, he must be tried in Diyarbakır. His family is being sent to Edirde, the furthest, remotest corner of Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0231par0054	Bulgaria couldn't go because it was closed, so if the Bulgarian door was open, they would have sent it there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0230par0055	Of course, they'll send it there. Now, the person is already being punished, and his family is being punished, and his family can't see the person. Besides, what kind of punishment is there? Especially with the last ones to get a phone call, there's a lot of constraints. Phone rights are restricted, family rights are restricted, attorney's rights are restricted, and once again the family is punished with a form of punishment. And it's not just that, as you know, once the sentence is over, the sentence of that sentence must be over, the prison sentence. Do we also have a punishment, a different punishment than a prison sentence, a different punishment? As far as I know, the death penalty has already been lifted, as well as the torture is a crime in the penal code, and we have acknowledged that torture is a crime in international contracts, but also in prison. He's in one cell, he's being abused. In Elazığ Prison for example, for example, for 45 days prisoners have been on hunger strike for nearly four months, unable to appear in the family view, in the phone interview, in the mail; this is also a method of punishment, as well as a method of torture, friends. And since the definition of crime in Turkey is so broad, you see, Celal Abi explained very well, we have a court of law, DGM courts, special authority courts, terror courts, etc., a system that has changed its name, but has not changed its system. And our definition of crime was vast, criminal of thought, political criminal, where we come from, you've put everyone in a bag with holes in it, the concept of terrorists, everyone in this country. Half the prisons are full of terrorists; one who throws a tweet is considered terrorists -- nine years in prison, none at all. At some point, they said -- and the slightest voice of opposition is being compressed into the concept of a terrorist and sent to prison. First of all, by arresting them, depriving them of their freedom, these people are being tortured, but it's not enough, the state needs to align it in its own way. That's why we're not the tribal state that shouldn't be. The clan is being treated in every manner of cruel treatment to prisoners in prison, with that logic, with that sense of vengeance, with a hostile attitude. Can a state take a hostile stand against its own citizen? Is there any explanation for this? No matter what his crime is. He's going to discuss the crime here, he's going to punish me here, he's not going to sanction this sentence, he's not going to be my friends sitting around, he's not going to be in prison, he's going to be in prison. Prison administration and administration execute, that's their only duty, but they don't have the right to abuse or torture those people there. Look, prisoners, prisoners are going to the hospital, and they're also being abused in the hospital. Every hospital they go to for the crime they committed is subject to discrimination. That's what they say. Is that what this is all about? It's not. There are now more than 1,000 sick prisoners in prison. Look, in the process of solving this issue, an agreement has been reached. If this state is not hostile to a ruling citizen, it will make an arrangement with so many sick prisoners in prison. There are reports of forensics, and even though there are forensic reports, they're expected to die in prison. There was a funeral just a few days ago. If it's not a hostile attitude, then what is it? Dear friends, another method of torture: isolation. Today, a human crime is being committed, starting with Mr. Ocalan, starting with Mr. Ocalan, which has spread throughout Turkey, spreading to many prisons; isolation. As I said, you punish him in one way, you execute him, you can't keep him in isolation, but Mr. Ocalan in Imralı Prison for months, years, he can't see his family, his lawyer, anyone. Why? Because of the political approaches of power, and it reflects on other prisons. Dear friends, we don't just say this; international contracts say that, independent institutions and organizations say that isolation is a crime of humanity. You can't keep a man in isolation, you can't approach your own citizen with a hostile attitude; you don't listen. There's another question I'm waiting for the Justice Department to answer. In 2016 and 2017, the CPT came to investigate for prisons in Turkey. We know the Home Secretary's approval is required as we explain the CPT reports. The question from the government, from the power is, since every time we say there's torture in prisons, you say there's no torture in prisons, so why don't you let the CPT explain their reports? If not, let the CPT come and share his observations with the public. Let's not tell you, don't tell me... you won't let us in anyway. Look, we haven't been able to go to prisons for two and a half years for observation, and neither have you. Three or five prisons where the Human Rights Commission went in two-and-a-half years, and he went to prisons he had set up for his own perspective. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I have another minute?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0232par0066	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0230par0067	We can't go, the Parliamentary Correctional Commission isn't going; the delegation is coming from abroad, you won't let him explain his report. It became an unknown area in a sealed box. Turkey is already in an open prison situation. Every day you give good news of prison; surround the whole of Turkey, and we are in open prison. Amenna, okay, we've agreed to this, at least we can talk about it in front of it, we can share it with the public as much as we can. What about them? You are responsible for their health and safety and their lives, and you are responsible for their power. You have to let these reports explain what they say, and what results they have, and you have to let us go, if you don't want to be under suspicion, if you still claim that there is no torture. Let's go, let's go, let's see if international institutions go, let's all sign up together. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0232par0070	Thank you, Mr. Basian. Sixth speaker, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0233par0075	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to budget negotiations for the Academy of Justice. In fact, the Justice Academy is a center where judges, prosecutors, candidates, have passed through the wombeitedria in order to grow more experienced staffs before starting their professions; that's how we can describe it. So, the judge, the candidates for prosecutors, before they take office, are learning from this institution about themselves, about their duties, about their ethics and other details. Think of it as a six-month internship, six months at the courthouse, six months here in training, or so claimed. Now, I mean, frankly, what is the state of his judgment besides being a member of the Academy of Justice when he's talking about the Academy of Justice? So we need to evaluate what these young students, judges, prosecutors, really saw in that training, how judges and prosecutors are deciding now more, whether they are independent or not, how they can be neutral. Because in these academys, the experienced judge, prosecutors, who are more experienced than they are, and who are now making decisions that the whole world is living in the horror of Turkey. Now, how those educators train these young judges, prosecutors, what universal principles they train them for, that's actually our main topic of discussion. Now, a lot of things have been said about the judiciary, and I've said a lot of things about it from this bench, but the word of Supreme Court Chairman Ismail Rügüş Cirit. In fact, says that July 15th had not happened: the confidence in the judiciary in the past was 70 percent, and now it has fallen to the 30 percent. I'm sure that 30 languages are also crawling on the floor, and no one really trusts in the judiciary. I'm sure the high-value lawmakers who sit in the lines of the ruling party won't trust the judiciary after they've been removed from these ranks. And if they do now, they trust them because they're the ruling party MP, but we don't trust the judiciary, we have no reason to trust them. Now, there's no need for other statistics. Here's the thing: we know very well how much Turkey changed the HSK during the AKP administration. After December 17-25, the structure of the HSYK was changed a lot, and the last time it was revised was with the 2016 referendum, and it was fully executed. Now, how independent and neutral can the judiciary be in an environment where the Court of Judges is fully committed to the government? It's a matter that anyone can judge -- there's no need to be a lawyer. Now, here, you know the openings of the court year are now being held in Fivetepe, where it was done, in the palace. The judge says that even the prosecution's drawing of the draw was made in Fivetepe, and the ruling party still has a neutral and independent party. What makes him neutral and independent? Of course it's not, I mean, they're just saying that to say it, because otherwise a party's judgment will never be found in a politicalized judicial state. I mean, there's no doubt a lot of anecdotes about the addiction of the judiciary, but, judge, prosecutors have very valuable views on it. My dear teacher, there are very detailed reviews in a study by Mithat Sancar. I really ask the MPs to study that book carefully. There's a judge who can't make these confessions after July 15th... in the previous years of the prosecutors. Even they said how difficult they were at that time. Dear lawmakers, the precondition for judicial neutrality is independence. An independent judge can't be neutral. How can a board who keeps his record, pays his salary, assigns him where he wants to, sends him where he wants to, arrests him whenever he wants, relieves him of his duties, be impartial in the face of a government? In order to avoid harm, he must make the required decisions, the required ones, and the required ones. We've said this over and over again, the judiciary is not neutral because it's not independent. If he could be independent, if he wasn't connected to someone, if he was taking his salary, his rights, his freedom, his rights to someone else, there's no doubt that the judiciary would be impartial, but there are no minimum conditions for that right now. Now, speaking of the Academy of Justice, there's a question of what is justice? There's nothing in Turkey right now, not justice, but injustice. So according to our research, no other questions in the world have been discussed in such a passionate way, as much as justice, no other question has caused such bloodshed and tears to fall again, no other question has been given any intense interest in Plato from Kant. The concept of justice is one of the most controversial concepts in the historical background. What are the minimum conditions of justice today? I think we can define justice as a concept: recognition of everyone's rights is the right to maintain equality or balance between opposite benefits, and for the establishment of justice to have laws that are absolutely in harmony with the universal principles and fundamentals of law. Of course, the law requires that all individuals living in the community observe their rights and freedom equally. Where do you want it? In our country, the MPs aren't free, our MPs are in jail and they're hostages. Who's to say that the law can be observed when the will to make the law is kept in prison? Laws issued by the ruling party are now subject to a unilateral view. Now, how do you get justice here? Equally provided for everyone. Just yesterday, with Law 2932, Sharq Islahat Plans, with many more laws in the Republic era, the deportation, the assimilation, the denial. The Kurds were rejected, assimilated, denied, massacred; and we have come from Derim, and from Ashepi, and from Koçgiri, and from Roboski, to this day. Yesterday, when I was a child, I was fined with Law 2932 because it was spoken in Kurdish. Today, we have a congressman who's talking about the Kurdistan region on the parliamentary stand. Where's the justice in that? We were being punished for talking yesterday, and today we're being punished for talking, and nothing's changed. That's where we have to discuss injustice and how the concept of justice goes into life. If there is no freedom of thought and expression on this stand, if we can't defend our own language, if we can't defend our own language, if we can't reflect our own culture, if we can't mention the geography that we live in, there is no freedom in this Parliament, there is no freedom in this country, there is no justice. That's why I don't care what they make in law schools. From the decisions that have been made, from who the educators are, I'm speaking from their own side in a very simple way. It's obvious. Now that the Minister of Justice is here, while we're here, Mr. Attorney General, I'd like to ask him directly. I'm about to introduce the document to him. In the defence sent to the ECHR -- Mr. Minister of Justice and the Council have made a statement today -- that rights stemming from its parliamentary status continue. • I mean, the MPs -- including our co-Chairs currently in prison -- including Enis Berberoğlu -- have been able to use their rights from the legislature. We don't know how they use it, I want them to explain it. He can't vote here, he can't participate in any audits, the Constitution is changing talks -- although our demands are persistent -- he can't participate, so we're really asking Mr. Justice Minister how to be a legislator within four walls. After all, we can't see our friends in prison. We're MPs, we can't use our rights as MPs. Why isn't that allowed? I'm passing through calls, petitions, meetings, exceptions. Really explain this segregation to us today. Why can't we visit our co-chairs and deputies? The other one, for all the MPs in Demirtaş's person, for all of them: four hundred and seven days in Demirtaş's prison, 95 hearings were held. Why don't you take Demirtaş to court? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0234par0090	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0233par0091	The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people are fleeing the court. You were insisting, why are you kidnapping the courts from HDP people and Demirtaş people, and why am I asking you to explain this? I have an article signed in your name, and since I can't get an answer, I have to ask here, Enis Yavuz Yıldırım, Judge, General Manager on behalf of the Minister. And in this article, it says that it is considered to be Demirtaş, who is a militant in the position of a member of an armed terrorist organization and is well known and closely followed by the public. It's added to the Supreme Court's decision, and it says: "This is also a directive for the defense of SSEGBIS." And if it is necessary, if it is not processed or processed according to the Court of Appeals, you say that it should be brought to trial without a day. Did you do this intervention in the judiciary? If you didn't do it, we've asked this chair dozens of times, why didn't you answer? Is it your instructions that Demirtaş did not appear in court, that the MPs were not removed? Now, I'm going to introduce this to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0235par0095	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. The seventh and last speaker is Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Sancar. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0236par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the Justice Department budget. I think the area where our deepest wounds are now is justice. Justice is not only a matter of interest to the Ministry of Justice, of course, it has other dimensions, but justice is the first thing that comes to mind. In law and judgment, we are experiencing tremendous tremors and destruction, and we are deeply concerned that if we close our eyes, these destructions will deepen. In fact, it is possible to describe all of this in one piece of data, giving examples of history, and giving warnings about it. First of all, I'd like to bring up a few important issues. My dear friends, who already spoke before me, have given me enough examples of concrete events, but here I feel the need to point out a few issues that may not be mentioned by lack of time. There is a concept called "judgment abuse" (a violation of fair trial in the European Court of Human Rights), which is often referred to as a violation of a fair trial in the European Court of Human Rights. What is judicial harassment? Suddenly, without solid grounds, without evidence, based on assumptions, even rumors, and most of all on confessional statements, the drafting of a trial and indictment. A large portion of the indictments are now made, dear friends without foundation. A few years ago, we did a study on HSYK -- at the time it was HSYK -- and it was published from TESEV. I did a study on indictments that day and 30 years of law teaching, based on my observations and research, and I was wrong about the fact that there were no such serious indictments at all, because I was wrong, and then that painting came and showed me that what I said was very naive. I mean, when we look at the indictments made in the last two years, it's really full of accusations and statements that no mind or conscience can accept. You need to know that this is destroying the right to a fair trial, it's dynamite. The Supreme Court recently said that there were approximately 7 million people suspected of this type of prosecution and indictments. Consider: There is a population of 80 million people in one country, and one of about 10 people is suspicious. This requires the government and, of course, the Ministry of Justice to ask very important questions in two respects. If there really are so many suspects, and these are really suspicious, you fail to maintain the peace of law and justice of society, you fail to achieve the peace of law, and you cannot create a fair life together. If they're based on baseless accusations, baseless indictments, and arbitrary investigations, as I just said, that's even worse. So you don't want to rule fair, you don't have a problem with justice, that's what it means. Now, if I were to set up examples of judicial harassment in Turkey, I'd have to talk here for a few hours. The other day we opened an exhibition of absurdities in the group corridor, a symbolic exhibit. If you just look at a few of them, you'll see. There is no justice-based, equitable investigation and trial process, dear friends. There's an account locked on to political targets. This is also called the historical name of the literature, the political judiciary, or the political judiciary, which I prefer. The aim of the political judiciary is not to enforce the laws, to enforce the basic principles of justice; it is the government's intimidation or elimination of the parties he sees as enemies, opponents or opponents; it is the political judiciary. There are great political cases in history, there are examples. I won't count these cases for too long again, but I'll tell you the first three that came to mind: the Dreyfus case, the Rosenberg case, the Sacco and Vanzetti case. Now, I think we should open the Dreyfus case up a little bit, give us some important lessons, and I believe that important warnings might come out of here. The Dreyfus case began in 1894 with a charge of espionage, but it separated all major contradictions in society like a catalyst. I wrote these lines I read in 2010, because of the NG cases. I'll tie it there, and if you'll excuse me, I'll read a few paragraphs. What's the relationship between the Dreyfus case and the TK trials and the post-op? France was shaking. You know, the debate over the Dreyfus case isn't over today either. Hannah Arendt, a very valuable thinker who had done a very good analysis of the period, sums up the very essence of the Dreyfus case. It says: "Fransa was divided into two, the Dreyfusians on one side, the anti- Dreyfusists on the other." In the 20th century, this division existed in terms of political reflection. The term "Anti Dreyfusci" was used as an adjective against the republic and against democracy and defining all racists. The anti-Dreyfusian front covered a wide range from Monarchism to National Bolshevism and social fascism. It was the most important component of this front by means of the armed forces that created a reactionary shield against the Republic and against all democratic influences. It's important to emphasize that France belongs to the French. The slogan was the most popular slogan of the war. An anti-Dreyfusian front was created against it. Who won or what? Sadly, the Third Republic of France was destroyed by the racist, fascist mentality and efforts of anti-Dreyfusians. Because they're too strong? No, not because anti-Dreyfusians were too strong, but because Dreyfusians weren't strong enough. Now, I'm calling from here to both the government and the ministers, the lawmakers and the public: We need a Dreyfusian spirit and attitude against all political cases. I warned you here, these cases will come and they will surely strike power. Here's the article, October 21, 2010. All right? Yes, it did. We said "composer." We said "Kumplodir." Then they confessed, with the files prepared by the community police, a political liquidation was being carried out by the decision of the district prosecutor and the judges, just as it is now. The same is the case that leads to HDP, MPs, district, and members of the district. Well, there's a reality that's so clear, it comes and goes all the way to the coup, it's July 15th. It was a first-hand trial for the fight against July 15th, so that we could clean up the community judges and prosecutors. If you had heeded that warning that day, maybe July 15th wouldn't have happened. There have been other warnings. I made a suggestion in my speech the other day, and while the Minister is here, I repeat this suggestion. If you're exporting so many people from the judiciary...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0237par0111	Please complete, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0236par0112	I'm completing it. I think 25 percent of the total staff has been exported. Of course, I don't claim that everyone who's been exported is guilty, but exporting is an important process alone. If the government exported it, it was because it believed that people did not operate according to the principles of law and the requirements of justice. Let's do a study together on how we can reevaluate these cases with the signatures of these prosecutors and judges. With your permission, and with all due respect, I've had a lot of work on this, and I'm prepared to present it all to you, including international examples. Let's make a law together. I've got some very valuable lawyer friends in my group, and they've got them in Congress. If we don't destroy injustice, we'll debunk this society. No one has the right. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0238par0116	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. Congressmans, now it's time for the speakers of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Haci Osman Akgül is the first speaker. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0239par0122	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I hereby salute our High Council. The common purpose of mankind today is to reach a greener and more habitable world, where biological diversity is maintained, where resource sustainable use is adopted, hunger and poverty are reduced to the least, and environmental pollution is prevented from being friendly with the environment, greener and more habitable. Knowing its responsibilities under international agreements, our country, which follows work on environmental problems affecting all humanity, has policies that highlight economic, energy, urbanisation and environmental protection in many other areas. The amount of waste produced throughout our country continues to grow from the past years to the present, as a result of increased population, acquisition power and technological improvements. The management of waste, especially the most important problem of our cities, is the need for sustainable and integrated waste management. The dissolving of waste in recycling and recycling process causes serious resource loss, both material and energy. Sustainable waste management, which is associated with technical, economic and social disciplines, is mandatory to focus on waste prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery, to prepare a waste management plan from the formation of waste hierarchy to the ultimate disposal of waste management. For this purpose, the Ministry has prepared the National Waste Management and Action Plan, which includes international norms and national priorities to ensure that our natural resources and ecosystems are protected and developed and liveable environments for future generations, under the principle of sustainability, and under the responsibility of reducing strategy and legislation to a minimum in the source of waste, decomposition, collection, relocation and recycling, energy, and the policy and strategy for eventual disposal. The National Waste Management and Action Plan is a study of the implementation of both our national legislation and the efforts to comply with the European Union's acquisitor. In this scope, the region's geographical structure and waste characterization has been taken into account while the current state of disposal has been determined by analysis and disposal methods in 15 regions across Turkey and 81 districts. According to the species of waste, it is intended to be separately collected, recycled, retrieved in different ways, and expose the methods of disposal. At the same time, it was intended to determine sustainable waste management strategies across the country by reinventing waste into the economy through recycling and gains to prevent rapid consumption of natural resources. With policies and practices under the National Waste Management and Action Plan, our country will be able to have a better integrated and institutional structure, a strong waste management system, as well as a healthier and cleaner environment for our citizens. The EC PARTY considers the environment a responsibility to future generations and a trust. In 2002, the number of solid waste regular storage facilities in our country reached 84. These facilities serve around 53 million people in 1,112 municipalities. Our goal in 2023 is to deliver this service to the entire population. The infrastructure of our cities, which we thought would rise above our civilization, reflect the colors of our culture and hold the lines of our time, is solid.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0240par0130	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0239par0131	We're aiming for it to develop in a way that's resistant and environmentally sensitive. As I close my words, I congratulate our Ministry of Environment, who led the preparation of the National Waste Management and Action Plan, and our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was part of this work and who was founded under his instructions during the Metropolitan Mayorate of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the environmental management company İSTAK AŞ. With these thoughts, I wish our 2018 budget to be a blessing to our country, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0241par0135	Thank you, Mr. Akgül. The second speaker is Samuel Alderman Sami Cakir. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0242par0140	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our nation. I'd like to start by expressing my thoughts about the United States' decision to recognise Jerusalem as its capital. Imperialist and hardheaded skulls order man and mankind to prostrate before the idol of the world's order they set up in their heads. I'd like to remind you that I followed that understanding, that I condemn the decision, that there is no Palestinian issue in the region, that the world is an Israeli problem, and that we don't know and recognize this sense of bondage that is meant to be clothed in our world with our freedom of spirit. I'd like to share with you the lines of the late Akif İnan, of the Masjid-I Aksa: I dreamed of Mescid-i Aksa, She was like a child and she was crying. I arrived and put my forehead on the threshold, It was like an underground river was falling. I keep my eyes on the road, Where were my brothers? There was a voice saying, His first prayer is for me, the great Nebi. Has everyone forgotten that? Burak used to wander in my neighborhood, I was the speed base that led the Miraca. My sanctity is certain from my city name, I was a shining chair. When there were thousands of believers He would run to me with one heart. In honor of the people of my city of Nebis, There were prayers that reached the answer. Now no one will come near me, I am the one and the only. The winds can't wipe away my tears, I'm a lost orphan in the desert. I dreamed of the Masjid al-Aqsa. He was saying hello to the Muslim. I can't stand this separation, Let him embrace me. He called me Islam. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we know our lives will be as beautiful as the city and the environment we live in has been beautified. We know that the country's development policies, regional development strategies and regional plan decisions have been made a maximum effort at the point of their survival and transfer to future generations, as well as the arrangements for architecture, engineering, contractors and advisors to ensure the location and structure. Any work done and done in regard to disaster-sensitive settlement, protection of natural and cultural beings, urban transformation, technical and social infrastructure, local development, urban awareness, governance and local governance, and the nature of the environment, the environment, the city, will have a value to reflect on life's harmony and beauty. When we're reviewing environmental and urbanism, we're not just talking about a longing for green and blue. We're actually saying that we want everything to be in its place. Whatever you want to see, we're the people of a geography where you can get what you want. We need to take into account today the fact that those who left us the legacy, how they tried to make life in harmony with nature, how their work was addressed to aesthetics, eye pleasure, even in the mosque, that they were able to think and implement sound-blowing acoustic planning centuries ago. We're members of a culture that considers lifting the thorn in the road so it doesn't hurt anyone else is part of faith. And while I encourage a guide who, even as the apocalypse, advises you to plant the seedlings, to tell you how bad it is to do a job, I hope that he has prevented the smallest behavior that can cause pollution, that we may be able to convey something to ourselves, to our cities, to our lives, to do something that will make this consciousness a whole for us in every aspect of life, that will lead to an act, an understanding, an action union to our future. With our eyes searching for aesthetics, our hearts longing for suhule, our ability to look at what we're doing in order to be a person of peace with nature, and to be able to do something together, I wish that the budget of 2018 should be better, and I salute the General Assembly and our nation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0243par0171	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. The third speaker is İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0244par0176	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the financial budget of 2018 of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby welcome you and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens, with the most heartfelt of hearts, with longing and conversation. I pray to God that our 16th budget as EC PARTY governments is primarily good for our nation, for our country. And I give thanks to the nation that has signed this historic achievement. FROM education, from justice to safety, from transportation to energy, in virtually every area, we've all been observing epic services for years. And today, I'm going to share with you some of the work that Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate have done. Of course, it's not enough for me to share all of these services, not enough words, not enough time, but I'm aware and aware of that, but in short, let me share with you what's going on in Tapu and Kadastro. The right to property, which is included in Article 35 of our Constitution, is one of the basic rights between rights and homework of the person. This rights facility, protection, registration, deedu and Kadastro are being carried out by our General Directorate. The Tapu and Cadastro General Directorate, which has served our people for nearly two centuries, has kept a record of real estate in our country, such as the tatapu, and has provided the experience of its past, blending with modern, innovative and technological innovations, to preserve, to ensure stately, and to serve our nation. Our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate conducted a cadastro of the average 350 units per year in the country prior to 2003, while the average of 1,750 units per year followed by 2003. This means that if that system in 2003 were to continue, it would take about thirty-five or forty years to complete the cadastro in Turkey today, and it would have been thirty-five years. But praise be to God, in every field, as I have just stated, as a result of the work done here, we transfer epic services to the conscience of our nation, and our nation is doing its due. One of the major changes made in the institution is the TAKBIS Project. This project is an e-government project where the person with property information is conducted with all kinds of questions, follow-up and strategic information about secure, current, fast-moving. In our country, property registration systems based on the map have been completed, and the property cadastro data have been integrated into information technologies and have been served on information systems. So it's a chain of service that goes on like this. Of course, we have a very busy and hot agenda, so I'm not going to be able to talk about some things. I'll tell you a few things about Jerusalem, which is the common value of all mankind. Our esteemed proxy has just combined it with a wonderful poem. Jerusalem is an important place in the Islamic civilization, adopted by the three heavenly religions that have been home to great and old civilizations throughout history. In the period of Yavuz Sultan Selim, Jerusalem, which was valued in all Islamic states, was dominated by the Ottoman Empire, and from this period, important works were made for the development of the holy city of Jerusalem. In the development of the city of Jerusalem, which is exempted from all taxes, the foundations founded by the Ottoman sultans, these great statesmen, were important. Our civilization, which has not occupied the territories under its rule, has also built and preserved the city of Jerusalem, which it considers blessed and honorable. These records that have reached today show that the ties to the past are held in our archives, our past and our spiritual values. In our archives, there are 47 record books covering Jerusalem between 1865 and 1917. The records found in these notebooks are about 37,000 dedicated foundations, 13,000 private property, 18 property records belonging to the treasury, totaling 170,000 records. As you can see from these accounts, Jerusalem, which we know as a blessed and glorious land in every religion, every religion, every language, is an Islamic city, as well as one of our archive records. Unfortunately, in this geography, where blood and tears have ruled for over half a century, Jerusalem is the symbol city of this wound. So for the oppressed people of this persecuted geography, as the poet put it, even if it's gold, I can't tell you what it means to tear it off and break it or shut it off, shout to the ground or shout to the sky or hear it from the sky. If it doesn't come out of the sky, I'm a thousand gods who created a ah/silent slaves. Again, I can't applaud our master poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy. I can't love the tyrant. I can't tell you, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it, I'll get it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0245par0184	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0244par0185	...the decision of the Islamic Co-operation Organization, which has been collected in Istanbul in person of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who cried out on the stand of the United Nations, "The world is greater than the five. " I thank God for the good fortune of this decision to all mankind, and thank you to the opposition parties, the bureaucrats of our Ministry, especially those who have worked so hard to prepare our financial budget for the 2018 fiscal year. I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0245par0188	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. Fourth speaker, Aydın MP Mustafa War. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0246par0193	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to discuss the budget of our Development Ministry for 2018. I salute our High Council. Our Ministry of Development has been known as the secret hero of the economy since the days of the State Planning Agency. The ministry continues its development process, strongly shaped by the planning tradition, today as the Ministry of Development. A close follow-up of global developments, good analysis of changes in our country and region, continuous predicting economic risks, and shaping policies based on it, reveals the role of the Ministry. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as a shining economy in the world and in the region, Turkey is attracting everyone's attention as a friend-enemy because of its position. The political stability we have achieved over the past 15 years has also pave the way for a high, sustainable economic growth. Today, those who feel that the economic growth of stability is coincidental or conjunctural are mistaken. The strong growth course continues because of the sound foundations of the Turkish economy, the right economic policies, the dynamic private sector, the healthy banking system and public financial discipline that have been implemented by our governments since our party came to power. There's no other economy in the world that can run all of its markets after a traitorous attack like July 15th, and then a year later, it's going to achieve a growth performance that's way above the world average. This is an indication of how resistant Turkey's economy is to any threat. As we arrived today, Turkey has set a record in the third quarter of this year, growing 11.1 per cent among G20 member states. We should all be proud of this success story. Mr. President, valued lawmakers can't deny the banking sector's contribution in Turkey's economy's resilience. As a matter of fact, our 15-year mandate has also been a period of transformation and growth for the banking system. During this period, the total assets and loans of the banking system grew rapidly. The development of risk management systems in the banking sector has increased foreign capital interest in the sector since 2005, along with improved international standards, with improved effective public control and active quality. In addition, with structural reforms, the banking sector has a healthy balance sheet, which has endured shocks from internal and external factors, and has played an important role in financing economic activity. Behind the political and economic achievements achieved are the work of planned, determined, and zealous staffs. In the end, behind this great success, we have a nation of saints who have always trusted their country. Those who think they will try to corner Turkey with political and economic attacks must realize that the former Turkey is no longer facing them. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our governments have always implemented policies to support and encourage investments, managed to ensure real production and added value. According to 2017, the budget's share of investment was increased to about 10 per cent in 2018, raising from 78 billion TL to 85 billion TL. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, new ideas and policies have been introduced in many matters, including the Tenth Development Plan, covering 2014-2018. Although domestic and external political developments for our country and have been a difficult economic period, a maximum effort has been made to implement policies involved in the development plan. To achieve our country's goals, we have to transform our industry, our production, our austerity behavior, our education and our human infrastructure. In this regard, I would like to say that I deeply care about our Ministry of Development's work, which is a guide to our country's economy and sectors. Turkey will continue its decisive march towards its goals, as it has so far. As I put an end to my words, the General Assembly salutes, and I wish our country the best and the best budget of the year 2018.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0247par0202	Thank you, Mr. War. The fifth speaker is Erzurum MP Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0248par0207	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Development. On July 15th, I salute our Parliament, which has received its second title, I wish our 2018 budget to be a blessing. As the Justice and Development Party, I would like to express that I have the honor of negotiating the budget for the 16th time again today. Our work in development aims to maintain economic stability as well as to improve investment and capital climate and boost employment. We've done economic growth and high-intensity production, and we've done cross-border development, and we've done social development. We saw the most obvious example of this with the growth figures revealed three days ago. The growth figures of 11.1 per cent in the third quarter are essentially the result of the economic policies that we have maintained as stable for fifteen years. It's the highest growth rate in G20, and we have to say with pride that the world's fastest growing economy has become Turkey's economy. Growth figures have also been an indication of how resistant the economy is to shocks and are also a sign that the economy is safe. We've done this growth by spending more on investments, producing and exporting. We produced 14.8 per cent in the industrial sector; 18.7 per cent in the construction sector; 20.7% in the service sector, which includes trade, transport, accommodation and similar sectors. We did, especially by increasing non-official capital investments by 12.4 per cent, to strengthen investments. And We have produced and put to bed, and We have made the exports. One of the most important developments affecting our economy in the third quarter was the increase of exports by 17.2 per cent. Of course, one of the most fundamental elements of development is the development of human capital. For this purpose, we have increased our education budget by 3.5 years, and by developing infrastructure at all educational levels, we have increased our schooling rate by 110 per cent from 2002 to 2017. With the opening of new universities in higher education, developing the capacity of the currents, we have added 3.2 million students to knitting training. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've been aiming for an inclusive growth in our time of power, and we've been aiming for economic employment, especially for women's participation in working life and labour markets. In this context, Turkey ranked second between 3.7 per cent and OECD countries during the 2010-2016 yearly employment increase. In our country's development, we have prioritized public investments that have been completed in boosting competitiveness, in mobilising regional development potentials, in developing the private sector, in improving the welfare level of our people. The most obvious example of this is that by 2002, the average completion of a public investment was eight and a half years, while the EC PARTY administration narrowed down to 3.5 years. Again, we raised the budget for high technology to R&D in 2002 and raised the budget of 242 million in 2017 to 2.8 billion euros in 2017, and again, when our RD personnel were only 9,000 years old, we raised it to 122,000 levels in 2002. One of the most important measures of development is the United Nations Human Development Index. In 2002, Turkey was number 88 in the Human Development Index, while now ranked 71st. Again, by continuing these studies in 2018, all of which we have done, especially by continuing to invest in public investments, economic and social investments, the development of infrastructure investments, boosting agricultural production, supporting industrial production, increasing efficiency e-government practices, and preventing production losses. And finally, on behalf of my ancient city, I thank the Development Minister for all the valuable work he's done in the field of agriculture, industry and irrigation in 15 years, and thank you all very much for our Plan and Budget Commission members, who have worked on the preparation of our 2018 budget, and for our approval, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0249par0221	Thank you, Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu. The sixth speaker is Mr. Cemil Yaman. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0250par0226	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the TİK budget, and I hereby salute you and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. As I begin with my words, I would like to refer to Jerusalem, the bleeding wound of mankind. Jerusalem is the second mosque on earth. The first qiblah of Muslims was taken in blood, and only in blood is the legacy of Saladin Ayyub (Saladdin Ayyubi), the relic of the Masjid-i Aksa asrisaad, the legacy of the Masjid-i Aksa. Jerusalem is one of the three major cities of our civilization. In 1917, Jerusalem has come out of Ottoman rule and has been suffering ever since it invaded the British. Israel was founded on the Palestinian lands they occupied in 1948 and occupied the west of Jerusalem, and in 1967 after the Six Days War, a large portion of Palestine and East Jerusalem occupied. Israel declared Jerusalem the capital in 1980, and the United Nations Security Council issued Decision 478, which condemned the decision and declared it invalid. Until 6 December 2017, no country recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, but Trump administration signed the decision to move the embassy to Jerusalem and set the new plan to cause chaos in the region. Those who think they own Jerusalem today will not even find a tree behind them tomorrow. I want to remind you again that we are with all the oppressed, especially our Palestinian and Syrian brothers. Also, as Turkey, we recognize Jerusalem as the capital of the occupied Palestinian State, and we invite the world to know it the same way. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, our country's distinguished scientific research centers benefit from the processing of raw information. Periodical reports are intended for the benefit of experts and our citizens on the street. One of these radical institutions, TÜİK, is an important part of the healthy implementation of social and economic assessments for our country on national and international platforms. One of the transforming programmes in our country's Tenth Development Plan is the Statistical Infrastructure Programme. This programme aims to use administrative records, data and information more effectively in production, strengthen interagency cooperation and establish national registration standards. As a result of access to administrative records, TİK has saved a great deal of time and resources by ending field practice in some of its studies where it collects information directly from workplaces. As part of his 94 research in 2017, TÜİK collected information from 1.136 thousand responding units and issued a total of 353 news bulletins. TÜİK gives great importance to international co-operation efforts. In line with our country's foreign policy, it does bilateral or multilateral statistical co-operation projects for various groups of countries and countries. There are extensive studies on managing technical aid programmes, signing co-operation protocols and conducting them in accordance with international agreements. In addition, international organisations continue to co-operate with national statistical offices and regional organisations. As part of these studies, it also provides a broad geography counselling service to strengthen the technical capacities of other countries' statistical institutions. In particular, Islamic countries share experience with many countries from Vietnam to Indonesia, from Qatar to Tajikistan to Azerbaijan with financial support from the Statistical, Economic, Social Research and Education Centre and the presidency of TİKA. As I put an end to my words, I wish the 2018 budget to be a blessing, and I salute our beloved nation, the General Assembly and its screens, who are watching us.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0251par0235	Thank you, Mr. Yaman. Seventh speaker, Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0252par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of 2018 of the GAP Regional Development Administration in our Ministry of Development. The Southeast Anatolia Project is being implemented as an integrated regional development project based on multi- sectoral, sustainable humanitarian development, aimed at boosting the competitiveness of the region, strengthening economic and social integration. Its main goal is to assess the resources of the Southeast Anatolian Region and improve the income and quality of life for our people living in this region, to address intergalactic differences, and to contribute to economic development and social stability at a national level. Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak are one of the largest breakthroughs in development programmes, including the Southeast Anatolian Project, Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak provinces, and about 10 per cent of our country's population. One of the characteristics of the GAP region covering nine provinces is that it has the highest potential for development and evaluation within water basins in the Middle East and Northeast Africa. The production of 22 dams and 19 hydropower plants and 1.8 million hectares of irrigation networks has been envisioned and production of 27 billion kilowatts of hydroelectric energy per year. Agriculture, industry, energy, transport, education, health, rural and urban infrastructure investments have been aimed at bringing economic and social indicators to the country's average. All developments under the GAP in 2008 have been revised, considering the goals of the master plan and regional development plan, and the GAP Action Plan was prepared in 2008 to speed up and complete the basic infrastructure and social development investments, particularly irrigation investments in 2008 and 2014. As part of the action plan, new applications, such as the SODES, the Supporting Centres of Attraction Program, are given priority projects and programmes that will provide significant improvements in the region's technological progress and socioeconomic structure. A significant performance was performed by the GAP Action Plan, which we practiced in 2008-2012, and the resources that were divided were paid for. The second phase of the GAP Action Plan, which includes 2014 and 2018, was built on the foundations that were strengthened in the first five years, with concrete results achieved by planned, programmed and disciplined effort. Urbanization, culture tourism, organic agriculture, renewable energy, logistics, innovation and recursion, social, institutional development, and especially our human resources have been the key elements of the new era. In 2003-2016, $59.4 billion was earmarked for investments at 2017 prices, and 55.1 billion euros were converted into investments with 85.6 per cent of them. About $5.8 billion has been earmarked to the Southeast Anatolia Project in 2017. The share of GAP regional investments in the central budget increased from 7 per cent prior to 2003 to 14 per cent, with the implementation of the action plan. Since 2003, annual investments in regional investments have remained above 10 per cent. From its establishment to date, the head of the GAP Administration, a leading organisation in regional development, has created an important institutional capacity in the region. Studies are being carried out by the GAP Administration to ensure human-based sustainable regional development, and innovative pilot projects that can be modeled in the region are being displayed and conducted. In this framework, the projects we run were earmarked for $110.6m from the central budget in 2017, and were spent 83m euros as of November. In the 2018 investment programme, $118m has been earmarked for projects. With these thoughts, I wish all of you, on behalf of myself and our group, the good fortune of the GAP Regional Development Administration's budget of 2018.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0253par0249	Thank you, Mr. Ensarioğlu. The eighth speaker, Mr. Mehmet Emin Simsek. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0254par0254	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for 2018, the President of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration. I salute your high council. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration was established on June 8, 2011, with the Constitutional Court of Law No. 642. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration was intended to speed up the social, economic development of the East Anatolian Region, to equalise the level of development of the region; to coordinate, research, plan, project, project, monitor, assess the area's level of development in place. Due to the fact that our region is an agricultural and livestock area, between 2013-2017, it has been opened to water 133,000 hectares in the region with a total of 3,348km watering grids for 715 projects as part of the Small Scale Agricultural Watering Programme to increase plant and irrigated land. In the region, 50 projects have been funded by allocations of $10.3m since 2014, to promote production, efficiency and diversity in plant products, to be directed to high-tech production, to address infrastructure problems, and to increase agriculture's level of prosperity in plant production. In this area, 775 decedents were established in orchards and applied greenhouse areas. 76 machine equipment distributions have provided new types of bait plants in 21.373 areas. Again, with the DAP administration of the Ataturk University Faculty of Agriculture Machines in order to prevent the spread of animal diseases in small animal agriculture, three farmers' education centres were set up in the region to provide practical training facilities including improving the physical infrastructure of regional universities in agriculture and veterinary schools and housing for farmers. Between 2014-2017, there were 166 drinking water ponds and facilities in the region's cities, with $33.6m in funding for the development of Mera livestock and raising the income level of local farmers. In the last three years, 27 animal markets and 16 slaughterhouses have been conducted, with 45 million euros to control animal movements, prevent animal disease spread, and to ensure the value of production. In order to increase the amount of green space per person, 311 green areas have been created for 11 projects in the DAP region as part of the development of recurrence areas. There are 96 neighborhood libraries in the region with $12.2m to increase book reading rates and improve reading culture. A total of 34 projects, including youth and culture centres, sports complex, mobileity, repair of village schools and socioeconomic development in the DAP region, were supported by the Economic and Social Development Project in 2015 and 2016. In 2016-2017, 29 projects, including film hall installations, art workshops, science workshops, writer's meetings, dengbej meetings and similar projects, were sponsored by a total of $7.5m, as part of various cultural projects, to enable sub-18-year-olds in the region to develop in terms of their skills in science, culture, arts and sports. Yeah, while we're signing mega projects like highways, tunnels, airports, city hospitals, dams, big irrigation sites, on the other hand, we don't neglect and don't neglect to reach every point with organizations like the DAP in our districts. I wish you the best and the best of the 2018 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0255par0260	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The ninth speaker is Nevşehir MP Abubekir Secgider. Here you go, Mr. Undercover. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0256par0265	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Regional Development Administration budget on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018. On this occasion, I salute you all. The development of cities in the KOP region began in 2011 as a joint organisation of the Development Ministry to speed up development by means of the action plan and to meet co-ordination services for investments and projects in the region; primarily the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Aksaray and Nigde and finally, according to the Council of Ministers' decision in 2016, the provinces of Nevşehir, Yozgat, Kırşehir and Kırkale were added to this area. The number of cities in the administration's area of responsibility has risen to 8, while the total area of service area has risen to 95,579 square kilometers. Of course, while serving in such a large area, it actually operates with 40 staff members and was raised to 213.3 million per cent in 2018, while there was a $184.4.4m budget for 2017. I believe that, if this budget goes to two, three, and five, the honorable lawmakers will not waste a penny by the KOP Administration, and this service that we've already met will continue to be much more efficient. Again, it also co-ordinated 92 actions and a total of 9.9 billion investments for the 243 projects, including the Action Plan, which covered its budget between 2014 and 2018, so it also has services within its budget, and in terms of co-ordination, it has these services for different ministries. Now, of course, in total, we're talking about the Ministry of Development as a senior institution. I want to tell you about a small development anecdote: 1990, Nevşehir. Along with the government party of the period and the leaders of the city -- there is one demand for the city, constant accidents at the Avanos-Ürgup road intersection, loss of lives and property, and the minister is a familiar minister, who goes to the minister, who is currently in charge of the development of that era, all together, along with the rest, at one request. Requests: Can you perform a clover junction? Unfortunately, when the earth and the sky meet, this service can come to Nevşehir. Now, the earth has not reached the sky, alhamdulillah, but the EC has reached PARTİ Turkey, and only in Nevşehir, this service continues in more than five different formats. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, of course, I would never, certainly not like to make any claims to the politicians of that era. Because there was the IMF at that time, there were coalitions at that time, there were rants, there were imports, but thank God those days are over, and hopefully they won't come back. I've tried to listen carefully to some of the reviews, and I think some of the important ones are well-intentioned, but the Plan and Budget Commission also has statistics by our lawmakers, who I think are wrong, who I think are being misled. There is one percent of the total population that dominates the wealth of Turkey. That's not true, that's what I want to remind you of both our MPs and themselves. Back to the KOP, this service that we have just met really has services not only for farmers, but also for students such as the KOP Reading Project. I'm gonna get through this fast. He's established the KOP District University Association, and now he's working on a very important integration that we call a master's master plan, which concerns us very much. Again, there's the Small Scale Water Co-operation Program called CSIP. These, believe me, give life to the villages where it is touched because we are in a barren land, trying to farm in the middle of Central Anatolia. For example, as part of this project, which we have yet to benefit from, as part of this project, where we have just seen its services, we have more than 350 dignitary farmers who benefit from the watering project in the village of Silverville in Gülşehir. So we now hear that the profits from there are three to five times more than that, and we now hear that -- God willing, they will continue to come back to the village. In the same way, we have two projects going on in the villages of Karaburna, which will cost about 10 million dollars. We're running out of time. I also want to say, Jerusalem, that sooner or later, you belong to us, and eventually you will come back to us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0257par0276	Thank you, Mr. Undercover. The tenth speaker is Konya MP Muhammad Ugur Kaleli. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0258par0281	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget for the Office of Development for the Office of Development of the Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration. I salute our Veteran Assembly. KOP is an ancient region of geography, historical and cultural history. The development of this region, which is the centre of our country, means Turkey's development. The KOP presidency was established in 2011 as the province of Konya, Karaman, Niğde, Aksaray. In 2016, Nevşehir, Yozgat, Kırşehir, Kırıkkale districts were added to serve our 8 provinces. The development of the KOP area is strategically important, including a hundred measurement of 96,000 square kilometers and the development of 4.5 million populations. The administration aims to implement investments in the KOP region, including programming, development, monitoring, evaluation and coordination services. In this context, the 2014-2018 KOP Action Plan was drafted and released to the public. The main goal of the KOP Action Plan is the development of all sectors of our region as well as the development of the agricultural sector. The action plan is an integrated regional development plan that deals with the KOP region as a whole. The KOP Action Plan consists of five main axes: the use of land and water resources, strengthening economic structure, developing infrastructure and strengthening urbanization, strengthening human and social structures, developing institutional capacity. A total of 10 billion Turkish liras were earmarked for the KOP Action Plan, which covered 2014-2018, and about 3 billion Turkish dollars were earmarked for the institutional budget of our administration. Dearly beloved, in the last chapter of the 32nth verse of Ibrahim, he is the one who gives you the rivers. It is stressed that our rivers, our streams, are effectively and efficiently used to satisfy drinking water, agricultural irrigation, transportation, energy production and similar needs. When we're called the Plains of Iconium, we first think of the agricultural sector. Water and energy are also needed for the construction and development of agriculture. By the way, I want to thank our government for the Blue Tunnel and other projects to bring water to the Plains of Iconium under the KOP. The implementation of the regional irrigation project, as in GAP, DAP and TRAGEP basins, also applies to the KOP region, the Central Anatolian region, is important for our future. Our country's water supply is 112 billion cubic metres. We're not using 60% of this. There are 4 billion cubic metres of water in the KOP region, and the need is 10 billion cubic meters. There's enough water potential in our country, and if we can use it efficiently, agriculture will develop, and it will reduce our dependency on the outside. The problem of agriculture is not solved until the irrigation is resolved. Water, agriculture, energy sectors are strategic sectors. In strategic sectors, costs are not accounted for. It is important for the agricultural sector that sufficient water is provided from the outer basins and meets with Central Anatolian agricultural areas with an action plan. Our goal is to water our country's farmland and to build projects to make Turkey the world's fifth largest agricultural economy. The KOP region, located at the intersection of the country's east-west and north-south-south-road connections, is a candidate for development bridge and attraction between the west-east with its geopolitical position, sufficient OSB numbers, strong industrial infrastructure and flexible labour potential. Increased share of renewable energy sources in energy supply is crucial to Turkey's energy supply security. The KOP region has begun to take the lead in producing electricity from solar energy with its sunbathing period and unusable flat terrain. It is also a great opportunity for the province of Karapınar to have been declared the Energy İhtisas Industrial District by the Council of Ministers. Using the potentials of the KOP region, it is possible to turn threats into opportunities to make our country's new center of attraction.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0259par0293	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0258par0294	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0259par0295	You didn't want it, but I'm giving it to you anyway. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0258par0297	God bless you, thank you very much. To this end, a total structural transformation programme must be carried out in the region. A improved KOP region could provide significant contributions to Turkey's bids for 2023 and 2071. I wish the central administration and the COP Administration budget to be good for our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0260par0301	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. The 11th speaker, Mr. Sabri Ozturk, is a member of Giresun. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0261par0306	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I have made a pledge here today on the budget of the head of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, whose short name is DOKAP. The Eastern Black Sea region is one of the most important parts of our country with rich historical, cultural values, potential and unique natural beauty. The Black Sea Region was established in 2011 to better assess its potential. The capital of the DOKAP is Giresun, and the service area is Samsun, the army, Giresun, Tripoli, Rize, Artvin, Bayburt and Silverhouse. Our slap district was also included in DOKAP area in 2016, thus leaving the service area with a total of 9. The East Black Sea Project was first implemented by drafting the DOCAP Action Plan. The priority of public investments in the DOCAP area with the DOCAP Action Plan has taken significant steps to attract private sector investments to the region. In preparation for the DOCAP Action Plan, 484 problems have been identified throughout the region and 1,257 proposals for solutions to these problem areas. As a result of all this work, the DOCAP Action Plan was built on five basic axises. These include tourism and environmental sustainability, economic development, infrastructure and urban development, social development, development of institutional capacity at the local level. The budget of the DOCAP Action Plan is set at $10.4 billion. The Green Path Project, including the DOKAP Action Plan, has been planned in many other areas, including the construction of road improvement and development plans of tourism centres, supporting certified seeds and plant productions, boosting the quality of products in nuts and tea, supporting beekeeping, exporting the inventory of medical aromatic plants. The DOKAP Action Plan was envisioned for the implementation of the project from 2014 until the end of 2018, but a very important resource was transferred to our region by the end of September 2017, with 11.7 billion Turkish dollars spent on the plan. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the DOCAP Regional Development Administration, have planned and implemented projects in many areas. In addition to the projects that I've expressed above, the Project of East Black Sea Tourism Masters Plans, the Project for Supporting Tourism Investments on Green Road Routes, the Project for Researching the Teleferry System for Human and Transporting, the DOCAP Area Cultural Inventory Project, the Research Project for Regular Storage Areas for Solid Waste Bertara, the Agricultural Research Project, the Research Project for Renewable Energy Resources Project, the Development Project for Animal Development, the Development Project for Planting Development, the Development of Petting Developmental Developmental Development Projects, the Development Project for Small Agriculture Development Projects, many projects have been successful. Our DOCAP Regional Development Administration has personally implemented Green Road and other projects that have allowed us to invest a total of $278.3 million in Turkish liras since 2013. ONE of the most important projects conducted by the DOCAP is the Green Road Project. This project will lead to the region's rise in tourism. The Green Road aims to improve a total of 2,600km of the territorial provinces as a tourist road network in the same standard. In this project, contrary to some claims, nature is not being slaughtered. On the contrary, there is no new path. This is already 1,000 kilometers of the 2,600km road in the landline network. The remaining 1,600km are the current bowways used by our citizens on the local scale. Currently, studies have been completed in 787km of this 1,600km road. The remaining part of the project is largely intended to be completed by the end of 2018. The Green Road Project is intended to build roads in harmony with nature, with tourism, with the beauty of our pedestrians. Thus, a tourist traveling in the East Black Sea is allowed to see through the plateaus from Samsun to Sarp. For the Green Road Project, I'm going to ask the state's private administration and the city's municipalities... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can you add one more minute?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0262par0316	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0261par0317	...a $225.1 million grant was earmarked by the DOCAP Regional Development Administration in 2012-2017. As I put an end to my remarks, I would like to wish the 2018 budget to be good, and I would like to thank our Prime Minister, our ministers and all concerned parties, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been involved in the adoption of the DOCAP Regional Development Administration. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0262par0320	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The 12th speaker is Mr. Zechariah Birkan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0263par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens, I salute you all. I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Justice Department for 2018. Dear lawmakers, before I speak, I reject the efforts of international institutions, despite the countless UN decrees, to legitimize unlawfully and unfairly occupation by acting with the U.S. occupied Israel, because it was up-to-date and had been in Jerusalem a week earlier. Jerusalem is the capital city of Palestine, the common value of mankind. I'd like to point out from here that we're always with the Palestinian people, along with our entire nation. Honorable lawmakers, justice is the foundation of property. It is not possible for people to live peacefully and prosperously in countries without law and justice. In this sense, the work of our Ministry of Justice is of great importance to our country and our nation. In 15 years of AK PARTY power, our country is known for its services and investments in many areas. These services also took place in the Ministry of Justice. Many new courthouses have been built. From now on, the inn, the break-in, the rental, the rent-in, all over the city, the justice services of judges, the mobile tables, the platforms, the stairs, the executive offices in the basements, are all over history. The new courthouses that fit our nation, where judges and prosecutors can work comfortably, have been operating in almost every city. I'd like to thank our Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, especially Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been involved in the construction of these services. Again, there have been law-enforcement courts that have been talked about for years, but have not been carried out, which have been under second-in-command in the trial, and the district courthouses have been opened. In addition to a new review of justice, the trial has been accelerated, and the Supreme Court and the State have been reduced to workforce. Dear lawmakers, we are aware that justice will not be carried out just by providing physical conditions, by building buildings. The Ministry of Justice has also carried out several studies at the point of the rule of law, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms that are required by the state of law. In this spirit, universal measures have been carried out in the preservation and judgment of fundamental rights and freedoms, as international treaties are considered part of our law. Again, the process of intermediary trial has also begun in recent years. A swift, economic, and mutually-approved trial is taking place with the system brought in. Although it was recently launched, as of November 2017, about 19,000 of the 21,000 incompatibles were resolved by compromise, and the success rate reached about 90 percent. Honourable lawmakers, the acceleration of justice, technological infrastructure work, such as UYAP, SMS, continues. In addition, at the point of the rehabilitation and publicization of our fellow inmates in prison, many changes have been made in our criminal execution system, new and human-promised juvies have been built and built. Our country and our nation are going through a difficult time. We have all blocked the low July 15 coup attempt, as the attempt to repel the 17-25 December coup attempt on the judiciary was attempted. In the repelling of this coup attempt, the worthy employees of the Justice Department are greatly appreciated and highly appreciated by our judges and prosecutors. The use of the justice mechanism as a lever to change the constitutional order of the country has caused many damage. Our Department of Justice has removed this destruction from its work and wiped out the terrorists who infiltrated the community. Dear lawmakers, the staff deficit in our Ministry of Justice is almost complete. I especially congratulate our Ministry of Justice on the fact that certain senior lawyers have been put to work in the purchases of judges and prosecutors. The improvement of physical conditions continues, as well as vocational training for the quality of justice personnel. In the data revealed by our Ministry of Justice, many judges, our prosecutor, have also been sent abroad, studied in language education, master's and international institutions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate the justice community on their efforts in the past period, which has been the supreme rule of law in the course of justice, despite many hardships, adversity, and coups.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0264par0335	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0263par0336	I wish the Justice Department's 2018 budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our very dear Minister of Justice and his fellow workers, to the highest Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0264par0338	Thank you, Mr. Birkan. The thirteenth speaker is Mr. Mahmut Attila Kaya. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0265par0343	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Justice Department budget of 2018. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. To us, democracy and the rule of law are guarantees of prosperity, peace and development. Unfortunately, before that, the judgment had become the focus of custody, and in the coup attempt, it had been a host to the coupters, and most of them had been committed to the coupters from the first hours. This time, however, from the first moments of July 15 coup attempt, there were Turkish judges and judges and prosecutors of the Turkish nation who claimed national will, democracy, the Constitution, the law, the death. I'm thanking all of you from this Veteran Assembly's bench. From 2002 to today, we have made many reforms in order to resolve the complex problems of the justice system. We've expanded our citizens' rights. Regional court courts, regional administrative courts have been active as of July 20, 2016. Thus did We reduce the burden of the Judge and the Prosecutor. The discrepancies -- a more effective trial -- have been resolved faster. Since 2002, there have been significant increases in the number of judges and prosecutors in particular. More than 100 per cent of the staff was also increased. In particular in the service buildings... look, I'll give it to you in square meters: from 569 000 square meters in 2002, there will be now 3,803,000 square meters and 6 million square feet of construction that will be completed. With a public vote on April 16th, we have added neutrality to the independence of the judiciary. The new structure of the HSK has strengthened the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. The opposition has had many criticisms. Look, we make it very clear that no one in our criminal and execution institutions is currently under arrest for pure journalism activity. Article 28 of our Constitution (4) has firmly defined the limits of freedom of the press. Look, when we look at the crimes that are now being accused of incarcerated journalists in prisons, attempting to change constitutional order, becoming a member of an armed terrorist organization, looting, killing, sealing, armed threat, assaulting, drug trafficking, organization propaganda, carrying dangerous material, and so on. What's the legal state gonna do, so when someone called a journalist in his profession tries to break the seal, loot, change the constitutional order by force? We can't possibly accept that. Again, as for the arrested MP, see, on May 20, 2016, we removed immunity for criminal prosecution, along with the temporary 20th article added to our Constitution. At this point, many of our fellow lawmakers have gone, given their statements, the process is ongoing, but look, some of their own friends, I'm calling the prosecutors, don't send us any invitations, brother, we're not coming; if you're taking us, you're going to take us by force. They said, and they didn't leave despite the invitation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0266par0350	Lies, lies, lies.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0265par0351	Then there were warrants made by prosecutors and courts to bring him in and capture him. Later, they said, would such an application be done? But at the next stage, we saw that the arrest warrant was issued, and after the arrest warrant, they said, "Will the MPs be tried?" Look, first of all, after the immunity has been lifted, lawmakers will do the same for a normal citizen of ours as well as whatever practice the judiciary will do on the alleged crime. I'd also like to remind you that two MPs are currently abroad, one of them is at the airport, one of them is caught on the run, and one of them still can't be found.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0266par0353	Who was running, who was running?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0267par0354	Who was running away?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0265par0355	Of course, look, especially because of their speech here, they have claimed that they have been tried as a result of crimes involving the Court of Justice, legislative irresponsibility, Article 83 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0268par0356	Who's running, running, running? Tell us who got away.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0265par0357	I'm here, look, I'm saying it's not like that. When we look at the crimes that are now being accused of, one is propaganda for a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0269par0359	You wrote it down, and you wrote it all down.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0268par0360	Look over there, you'll see them all. You'll see who's walking with the congregation, then, take a look. If you look at who's been walking with him for fifteen years, you'll see very clearly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0270par0361	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0271par0362	Two: to help the organization knowingly and willingly. To be a member of a terrorist organization. Instigating to commit crimes, conspiracy to commit crimes. Building and running an armed terrorist organization. Don't supply weapons to an armed terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0272par0363	Metin Ashünk is doing it to those in Germany right now!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0271par0364	Look, that's the thing. Being a congressman doesn't give anyone the right to commit crimes, if you commit crimes, you'll be tried, and then you'll be punished, the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0272par0365	Metin Ashunk brought it from Germany, go ask him!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0271par0366	All we've done is reforms for more peace and more justice, and we've done these reforms, not on the road, but here, under the roof of this great Assembly, sometimes with the contributions of the opposition.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0273par0367	Yes, that's right, the opposition helped you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0271par0368	I, Minister Abdulhamit Gul, thank all the staff of our Justice Department, our judges, our judges, and wish that the Justice Department budget of 2018 be blessed and fortunate.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0274par0370	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0275par0371	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to say this.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0276par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0274par0373	Mr. Kerestecioğlu and Mr. Ozkoc... Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0277par0375	Mr. Hatti's remarks about both journalists and lawmakers' detention do not reflect the truth. The existence of democracy in one country is subject to improving human rights in that country and a fair trial in law, but our arrested MPs and journalists are currently serving the punishment for their forced freedoms. In contrast to the speech of AKP lawmakers, the speaker MP, they are in prison for freedom, democracy and the future of their children, only because they say what they say. I'd like to report to your information.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0274par0377	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0278par0381	Mr. President, first of all, 345 hearings have been held by HDP MPs. How many other parties have this number, and really, how many cases have there been of the AKP MPs? Now, today, as I just said about one of our advisors, he wasn't disturbed by the environment, even though he didn't use slogans or was in the environment. What kind of judgment can there be? This is what justice is in Turkey right now: it didn't happen, but what's going on inside it? What's the idea? By creating a continuous perception, HDP and our deputies have been tried to be criminalized. For one thing, this is not the way a lawyer talks. Mr. Attorney General...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0279par0385	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0278par0386	And he's probably aware that the police hearings aren't a decision. In fact, the speaker on the stand should also be aware, but we live in a time when the horse is the one to blame, no matter what happens after that. There's no such thing, there's no such thing. We didn't walk on the road. He says, "Mr. Congressman, we walked on the roads, we walked on the roads." We got those international contracts, those rights, those human rights documents to walk those roads. If something happened in this country, it happened the way we did, in favor of justice and law. That's why our deputies lie down for him, for thought, for expression. Akin Atalay has been my friend for thirty or forty years from the Republic newspaper. He went and testified. Why was he arrested? Did he have any doubts about running away? Now, let them look...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0280par0390	He came from Germany, from abroad.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0278par0391	Yes, from abroad...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0281par0392	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0278par0393	He's from abroad, he's from abroad, and he's still under arrest. I mean, really, where they're supposed to take care of themselves right now, as our deputy just said, are those German Ottomans or what are they planning there? What are they planning to endanger the safety of people living abroad? In order for the state of Turkey not to get itself in trouble, it must first look at these. He needs to find out what's going on out there with some weird, crazy people like the State Department. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0281par0395	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0282par0396	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0281par0397	Mr. Pir, Mr. Group Vice President has responded. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0282par0399	That was about our group.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0281par0400	Sir?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0282par0401	And there's a tease about me.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0283par0402	Subject didn't use a name. No, he didn't give me a name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0281par0403	What was it, which one?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0282par0404	One of the people who was taken into custody that night was me, and he said: "O pager went to the MPs." They were taken because they didn't go. I want a promise to fix it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0284par0405	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0285par0406	No, no, nothing like that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0286par0407	Is that what you did? I'm not going, do you want them to take it themselves?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0285par0408	No, he didn't say that, he didn't use a name.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0287par0409	Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0286par0410	Is that what you said? Come and get it yourself. Did you say?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0288par0411	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0289par0413	Mr. President, thank you. We wish that at the end of the legal proceedings mentioned, those who are concerned should be acquitted. In his speech from the bench, our friend has made evaluations of legal services and case managers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0290par0415	It just can't be found.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0289par0416	In Turkey, the law operates in open and public processes, and in the end, it is absolutely the basis of justice and justice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0291par0417	When Erdogan was convicted, did he have rights? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0289par0418	Our position and position as politicians here is of course out of the question, are the legal places to do it. In that framework, we need to remember that our friend's assessment is a political assessment, not a legal one, and that the law will say what it says in its field. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0291par0420	Mr. President, was the conviction of Recep Erdogan a legal decision or was it true? Is that so, Mr. Recep? Don't do this.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0292par0421	Everyone in this country has been judged by political decisions.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0293par0422	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Pir, let me open the microphone for you because you were taken into custody that evening and then released. Here, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0294par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, last year, thirteen months before that, I told the Minister of Justice, and I'm telling him here: he's been humiliated on an international platform, and I said, "You've always lied to him," and you say: "The paper went away, they didn't come to me. I didn't want to speak for myself, but now you're putting a person in that position -- my person, my office, my lawyer, didn't get a page. Our deputy Abdullah had a trial two days ago, and he was not notified; yet he was taken. I told you from here two or three weeks ago, whoever's using that lie after that is a bastard and a bastard, and I repeat that. As for aiding and abetting terrorist organizations: I watched his video myself, and it was in the newspapers, and it turns out that at which address in Germany your MP gave 20,000 euros to which mafia organization. There's research going on right now. You'll see what comes next.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0295par0429	Well, thank you, lawmakers. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account It's Mr. Huseyin Özbak. It's Zonguldak's turn to speak. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0296par0477	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the budget of 2018 of the General Directorate of Criminal and Investigation and Employment Institution. I salute you all with respect and love. Before we begin, I'd like to make a point. An unfortunate step taken last week by the United States has become the footsteps of a new conflict in the Middle East. The coming of peace and peace to the Middle East will only take place as a result of the rightful resolution of the Palestinian issue. I want the nations of the world to know that as long as the world turns, we will be with the Palestinian people. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you some information about the institution. As of early December, there are 384 prisons and execution institutions in our country. The total capacity of these penal and execution institutions is 207,579. In our institutions, there are 83,828 prisoners, including 1,49,846 convicted women, 4,791 women, and a total of 233,674. Some improvements have been made in the field of physics, and the physical conditions of our institutions have been improved as part of our existing criminal and execution institutions' electricity, water, natural gas, plumbing, roof and general renovations. In our seven institutions, which operate as a child-closed execution institution, 17 family interview rooms have been created within the institution, ready to be used, in order to ensure that the family ties of juvenile prisoners and prisoners remain intact and spiritually comfortable. Prisoners and convicts are also prepared according to the daily daily calorie requirement set by the Ministry of Health. The daily price for compensation, which is $5 per day for convicted and for employed personnel, has been increased by 40 per cent to $7 per cent. At the same time, the amount of interest for children and breast-feeding prisoners, imprisoned mothers, pregnant prisoners, and prisoners, has been increased to $10. In addition to daily supply, more than 20 per cent of additional food, fruit, honey, milk, sweets are provided to juvenile prisoners and prisoners, under the control of dietians and doctors, including physical, mental and social development. On the other hand, 1,196 ring vehicles have been purchased for transport of prisoners and prisoners in the last eight years, and the total number has been reached 1,384. In addition, private aircraft is also rented for transport of prisoners and prisoners in special occasions. Mr. President, the capacity of our prisons is a little high right now. With the work done by our General Directorate of Punishment and Investigation, this will be taken care of within a few years and the prisons will be more comfortable. The number of terror prisoners and prisoners in our prisons, 62,000, has now fallen to 59,600. Of these, 45,600 have been arrested and the rest belong to PKK and other terrorist organisations.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0297par0484	Do you include HDP (HDP) in it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0296par0485	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0297par0486	Boo, boo, boo! The same way those who chose you sent you there, so did the politicians in HDP!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0296par0487	Mr. President, it's a huge success that we're growing by 11.1 per cent, despite valuable lawmakers, internal and external enemies.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0297par0488	If it's the citizen who sent you, it's the citizen who sent me!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0296par0489	This success is the success of our nation. We can't be too proud of that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0297par0490	If you say so, we'll give you back ten times as much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0298par0491	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0296par0492	In the meantime, I congratulate all of your staff from the general manager of our General Directorate of Punishment and Investigation to the execution guard, and I wish them all the best in their work, and I wish them health and happiness. I wish the budget of 2018 to be good for our nation, our state, and I salute you respected lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0298par0495	Thank you, Mr. Uzbakir.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0299par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0298par0497	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0299par0498	On the question of our deputy, yes, I'm putting it in. He also declared the HDP a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0300par0499	You asked, and he said yes, so what?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0301par0500	What do you mean, he said yes?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0302par0501	What do you mean, he's here?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0300par0502	You asked him, and he said yes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0303par0503	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0302par0504	If it's the citizen who sent you, what's this here?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0304par0505	Shut up! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0303par0506	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0305par0507	We'll have the Deputy Meral speak.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0303par0508	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0511	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Minister of Justice is here. No one can say you're a terrorist to another MP.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0307par0512	A terrorist who calls himself a terrorist!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0513	If you're looking for terrorists, if you're really looking for terrorists, don't forget that the Fetullahists you walk arm in arm are now involved in terrorism. We represent the people by the vote and by the will of the people... whatever election process you've been through, whatever you've been through. This is a great injustice. It's a disgrace. By turning into a group of parliamentarians under the roof of this Parliament, you are terrorists. My language and culture aren't enough to say that. If you call 6.5 million people terrorists, you divide this country.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0308par0514	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0515	If that's what you're doing to a group of people who insist on democratic politics, despite all this pressure, who still defend democracy, rights and law, then you've ignored a quarter of this country, a quarter of its citizens.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0308par0516	Not six and a half million people, but terrorists are called terrorists. It's not about 6.5 million people, it's about that again.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0309par0517	Not at all, we love Kurds. We don't have a problem with Kurds. You're the one with a problem with Kurds.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0518	We have as much right to this country as you do. We don't have any less rights on this than you do.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0309par0519	You're the one with a problem with Kurds. Don't let people get away with this! Leave the Kurdish nation alone!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0520	We are whatever rights you are.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0310par0521	Unless you consider yourself a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0306par0522	He is the one who calls us terrorists, I say and thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0311par0524	He didn't call you a terrorist. He didn't tell you that. You're twisting it, Ms. Coral.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0312par0525	For God's sake! You're doing the worst damage to Kurds, leave them alone! You can't victimize a people so much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0313par0526	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0314par0527	Mr. President, the President of Osman recently used a word here, which is why he was not allowed to attend the hearing for two days. Likewise, by returning to our group, you are also a terrorist. We demand that a person who says, "Yes, you are a terrorist be processed right now."
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0313par0528	I'll ask for the minutes, Mr. Akdoğan, I'll ask for the transcripts, I'll see what I can do. I'll take a look at the records and evaluate them, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0315par0529	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0313par0530	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0315par0531	There's been an open taunt in the speech of Ms. Meral.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0313par0532	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0315par0534	Mr. President, my dear friends, in his speech, our disciple is giving a number of prisoners and prisoners in prison, and we'll see when the reports come in. A friend from the HDP Group calls: "Are HDP MPs included in this issue?" He says "Yes." It's a statement that refers to the hearings and the legal assessments there. Now, not only did you take it from here and carry it with you, but it's also an accusation against the AK PARTY and it's an extremely shameful and unacceptable form of expression in that sense.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0313par0536	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0315par0537	Dear friends, we, of course, have criticism of the People's Democratic Party. We know that there's a terrorist organization called the PKK on its sociopolitical grounds, and how this terrorist organization plays a decisive role in the way it uses its policy here. The same sociopolitic floor, of course, is the ground where you are represented, as you are, working within the framework of legitimate and democratic ground. PKK's designated, decisive, guiding atmosphere here has a significant effect on the way and style of the Peoples' Democratic Party to do politics. The criticism we bring is a criticism in this frame. Let's not mix them up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And, of course, our people here, they're elected, and they're coming in that frame. But now, in the sense of criticism, you were easy with the terror organization, and they came in... that's both a lack of understanding and a lack of accuracy. That's exactly what I'm returning. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0316par0542	So again, the same taunt came from another direction, and finally he said, "This is not right." We want to talk about teasing again.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0315par0543	Mr. President, I didn't pick on...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0317par0544	What the hell?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0318par0545	He didn't!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0319par0546	What more do you have to say?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0318par0547	Come on!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0320par0548	I've expressed the words, the words, the words that were said just now.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0321par0549	Will you be the last to speak?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0322par0550	When you do it, it's a criticism, and when we do it, it's a tease?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0323par0551	Why are you so uncomfortable?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0324par0552	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here, I promise you your place.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0322par0553	Not in my place, sir, but without teasing, sir, I wanted to talk to you about teasing, so there was the same kind of teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0325par0554	No, there's no teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0326par0555	What the hell? Will you be the last to speak?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0327par0556	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0325par0557	State your position, your position.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0328par0558	This is where the PKK has established our politics...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0327par0559	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0328par0560	Ms. Meral...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0327par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0329par0562	He's giving it away.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0327par0563	No, I call you to the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0329par0564	He asked for your place.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0566	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've had a lot of these discussions, and we're really tired and uncomfortable. That's our congressman, who said he was a former public prosecutor, and I just found out. Rather than a prosecutor's legal evaluations of a lawyer...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0331par0568	You have to look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0569	Mr. Bostanci said it's not a legal assessment, it's a political assessment. So right now, we don't have time to tell each other about terrorism, the definition of terrorism, the history of Turkey, the history of Turkey, but remember, there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey, and unless this Kurdish problem is solved...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0332par0570	There's a PKK problem.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0333par0571	There is no Kurdish problem, there is no PKK problem, there is no Kurdish problem in Turkey!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0572	...this matter will continue to be debated in a vicious cycle. You said on the sociopolitic floor that our policy was appointed by others, PKK, or other organizations, illegal organizations. No. It's a problem with our policy, it's a problem with the swamp. You know what you're saying, analyze it a little bit as an academic. Since Kurds don't have rights and freedoms in this country right now...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0334par0574	That's why you're on the stand!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0575	You are a member of a party that said that the PKK was born from September 12th, which is said by your authority. If we insist on democratic politics, we're just defending the solution to the issue on the basis of democracy.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0335par0576	Who's on the stand now?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0577	These charges here won't get you anywhere, and they won't get us anywhere. We know exactly what we're talking about. If democratic politics and problems in Turkey are not solved, unfortunately, we will die every day in the ground. This has to be solved, it has to be solved democratically, it has to be solved by talking, it has to be solved under this roof. We can't solve with questions like that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0336par0579	You will not axe, you will not open the trenches, you will not open the trenches when democratic solutions begin.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0330par0580	In this country, you have brought him and placed him in the highest institutions. You, let it be determined, put it in, and now you're trying to clean it up; it's a reality.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0337par0582	Stop walking hand in hand with the PKK, stop flirting, come sit here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0338par0583	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0339par0584	Mr. Naci, there's no bullying in the speech, really, honestly, there isn't.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0340par0585	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0338par0588	Mr. President, the Kurds don't have rights and freedoms. The phrase is very wrong, the Rayic practices in Turkey about rights and freedoms that are incompatible with the facts of Turkey are as if ethnically-based as if they were being deprived of...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0341par0589	It's not like we're prisoners, we're prisoners.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0342par0590	Is that why you can talk like that?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0343par0591	You're exploiting Kurds.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0344par0592	This is your group president, friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0345par0594	It's the expression of an effort to establish a formal political approach in a judgmental language. If you look at literature, you'll see a lot of assessments about this, not just here, but elsewhere. Everyone in this country takes advantage of rights and freedoms as equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey, but other than that, we don't...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0346par0595	Some are more equal.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0347par0596	Some are more equal, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0345par0597	...we see a problem with Turkey's brotherhood, we consider it an expression of ethnic instigation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0347par0598	Why can't I speak in my native language on the stand?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0345par0599	On the other hand, it's unfair to show the AK PARTY in arm and arm. It's Turkey's legal system that puts this gang out of its hands, which exposes it, which, of course, puts it in prison, because law will do that when fighting a gang, against the Republic of Turkey, against its democratic ground, but it's also a kind of injustice and injustice to accuse the AK PARTI, who stands behind democracy, rights and freedoms, by missing the role of a strong political will here, by ignoring its role. I made a promise for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0348par0602	We don't have to accept it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0349par0603	You're telling me.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0350par0604	Mr. President, a short word for 60...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0351par0605	Mr. President, for the record, I don't want to say this, but I want to speak openly of bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0352par0606	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0353par0607	Mr. Master, are you...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0352par0608	I'm going to make it into the reports.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0353par0609	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0352par0610	He has just said, "The Kurdish problem." Turkey has no Kurdish problem, Turkey has a problem with terrorism. The Kurds are our brothers. (MHP and AK PARTY) Kurds are a proud member of the Turkish nation, our Kurdish citizens.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0354par0611	Do not use Kurds side by side with the word "problem" anymore. Kurds aren't a problem for us.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0352par0612	Especially the National Movement Party, the Fellowship of the Thousand Year Live and Live Rally. So, there's a Kurdish problem with that. It's called Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0355par0613	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0356par0614	He's got a problem with terrorism. We don't have a problem with our Kurdish brothers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0357par0615	You're the problem.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0356par0616	The Kurds are our brothers. There's terror, terror. Tell me about him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0358par0617	You're the problem, you are. Not us. You're the problem.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0357par0618	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0359par0619	Mr. Kerestecioglu, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0357par0620	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0359par0621	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0357par0623	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've expressed this topic many times yesterday, and in fact, when you're applauding the SIHA here, how do I applaud those instruments of war with horror...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0360par0624	You're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0361par0625	Let's hear it again, let's hear it again, let's hear it again, let's hear it again, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0357par0626	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0360par0627	You're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0361par0628	Let's be victims of the hands that make them.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0362par0629	We applaud the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0363par0630	So I'm sure you'll applaud, and that's what we're doing, and look how powerful we are, and I'm sure you'll try to trick people into saying how we're actually equipped to fight.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0364par0631	We'll do whatever it takes to eradicate terror.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0363par0632	And you can do that. That's right, it's working.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0365par0633	They're against terrorists, they're against traitors.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0363par0634	In general, that's the policy of sovereign, authoritarian states, but you don't win from it, we don't win from it. And I told you yesterday, I got up and...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0366par0635	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0365par0636	Who are you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0366par0637	Who are you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0365par0638	Who are you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0367par0639	I'm a member of the People's Democratic Party. I'd like the person who says, "Who are you?" to report here. I don't suppose you'd mind me saying that, Mr. Bostanci, since I know your kindness, you must give that warning.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0366par0640	And you say, "We-we." It's the state of the Republic of Turkey. Who are you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0365par0641	We're talking about a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0367par0642	They get up, they get in line, they ask you, they ask you, we want bedellite soldiers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0366par0643	Why do you mind the state of the Republic of Turkey making SIHA? That's my problem.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0367par0644	You're always trying to drag people into battle in the form of ver mehteri, mehtereh. No one wants war in this country.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0368par0645	We don't want the war either. There's terror, terror.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0366par0646	Why do you feel uncomfortable fighting a terrorist?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0368par0647	Blame the terrorists from that podium once.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0369par0648	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0370par0649	It means there is no Kurdish problem. Today, the Justice and Development Party has to go back to the factory settings of whoever's doing what they're doing in the same past. That is a great loss. That is a great loss.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0371par0650	Get over it, don't tell us any stories.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0370par0651	Turn around, look in the mirror,
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0372par0652	Blame the terrorists once from that stand.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0371par0653	Why can't you call the terrorist a terrorist? Look at you! Hypocrite!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0370par0654	Look at what you promised three years ago, look at what you've done, and look at what this country has experienced in death. Oh, and here's the thing: you don't want to talk about the Justice Department budget because you don't have any justice. Apparently that's it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0371par0657	The story... skip it, skip it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0373par0658	There's no justice in the mountain, there's no justice in the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit06spe0374par0659	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0374par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Bostanci, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0375par0049	Mr. President, there is no human being, no sane person, no politician who speaks to the masses, let there be bloodshed, let there be no peace in the land, let there be no hostility against one another. The EC PARTY is a party that has been in power for 16 years, with 50 per cent of the vote. Let it be war, let it be war. It's a good thing we're fighting. There's absolutely no way we're going to have an approach like this. Here's the basic issue: SIHA, U.S.A.L.A.S., etc., etc. Since 1984, Turkey has been under attack and threat from the PKK. For the sake of the public's welfare, the state is fighting against the terrorist organization through legitimate means. He must, of course, fight with various weapons, various tools. How well we do it, how pleased we are. Of course it's not going to work with an approach shaped like that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0374par0052	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0375par0053	But the public peace, the future of 80 million, puts such a fight against terror organizations and other terrorist organizations on the back of the state and of course the ruling politicians. So we need to see our approach in this framework. Also, let's not forget that in this country, where all kinds of problems are discussed and discussed are democratic grounds on the basis of the mind. It's up to all of us to protect the democratic grounds, to pay attention to the ways of the people's will here. This Parliament has to maintain Turkey's issues in a non-inflammatory way, but with a mind that considers Turkey's priorities, its priorities, its people's priorities, with a political understanding that always pays attention to the illegitimate line of legitimacy. Our sensitivity is in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0376par0056	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0377par0060	I would like to express to Mr. Bostanci that there is only one point missing. Maybe he'll finish up later, especially the part about terrorism, about the MPs in this Parliament. I'd like to point out that we're asking for this. Yesterday's applause here really reminded me of how during the Gulf War there was no life in Iraq, and how, you know, a comic book or something, the attacks during the Gulf War actually reminded me of that. I especially mean to applaud the SIHA. When I say that, you want war. Not what I mean. No one should want war in this Parliament or in this country.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0376par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0377par0064	It's natural. But the world is in such a state that at the same time, the world knows the ways that, after years of being unable to solve problems that are only called the terror problem, and after decades of loss, thousands of lives, people have been smarter and have been able to negotiate and choose ways of peace. And that's what needs to be done, and there are such methods. Other than that, what we really miss in this Parliament is actually the applause of other achievements, so it's really not the instruments of war, it's the applause of achievements. That's what we mean by that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0376par0065	Thank you, lawmakers. Members of parliament, Mr. Nihat Akdoğan had a request in the earlier debate that a punishment be imposed on the speaker. I asked for the transcripts, I looked at the transcripts. Now, the speaker's speech is that the number of terror prisoners and prisoners with 62,000 in their prisons has now been reduced to 59,600. Of these, 45,600 have been arrested, and the rest are arrested by PKK and other terrorist organizations. Nihat Akdoğan asks, "Do you also include HDP?" Hüseyin Özbaır says, "Yes." Now, there's a problem here, Mr. Bostancı -- if Mr. Özbakir is here -- because there are MPs currently under arrest in prison, HDP MPs, and HDP executives and mayors. If there's any understanding of all this as terrorists, I think it's important to make it clear. Do you take your word for it, Mr. Uzbaır, or does he speak? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0378par0072	Mr. President, I've spoken to Mr. Uzbakir. What Mr. Özbakir said is an assessment of prisoners and prisoners. Of course, HDP has a different location as a collective identity. At the same time, as a prisoner, there may also be some members of the HDP (HDP) as a prisoner; it is the law itself that will decide on them. We're talking about people in there. There could be people from various parties. Mr. Nihat is making an assessment from there, and he says yes. Carrying this in such a different context...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0379par0073	The president already has the context in his own speech.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0378par0074	I also feel it's not right to take him to a place like this, where there's been an accusation called terrorists.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0380par0075	Let him out himself.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0378par0076	The assessment Mr. Uzbakir made is a legal assessment of the people inside. Again, let me repeat what I said in the first place in my last speech: Our wish is that the HDP's authorities will undoubtedly be acquitted and not receive any convictions, but it is the law itself that will decide. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0381par0079	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. There are now two speakers left on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, and then there is a speaker on behalf of himself. I'm going to take a break after I hear these conversations, and we're going to revisit that in the back. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account Mr. Fatma Benli, Istanbul MP, please come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0382par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Turkish Justice Academy. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. Dear MPs, as you know, this is Human Rights Week. We've celebrated the 69th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights this week, and we know that the rights in international contracts -- if we don't secure justice with the necessary mechanisms -- do not really apply it. The present, unfortunately, is the most mentioned of human rights and justice, although war, terrorism, hunger, migration, or so on, is the most violated era of rights. When justice is eliminated... the decision of the United States of America recently made regarding Jerusalem shows that the rights and justice of the states have been eliminated, or that its decision led by the Islamic Co-operation Agency under our own self-respecting President, the decision of Jerusalem to be recognized as the capital of Palestine, and especially the testimony of the president of Venezuela, who said that justice supports this decision from 10,000 kilometers away, is not really related to race, language, religion, religion. After all, justice is a universal term, the spirit of the universe. Without justice, there's no talking about human rights, no security, no rights, no equality. So justice is indispensable to us, so it's particularly important in our country, where more than 6 million cases are being filed in just one year, that the Turkish Justice Academy, which we're talking about today, has the budget to provide the fastest and most effective justice for each case in our country. After all, the main requirement for these cases to end fairly is to have qualified judges, qualified prosecutors. The Justice Academy, which provides the pre-professional education of judges and prosecutors, and then gives vocational services seminars on all judicial members, with their conferences, symposiums, seeking solutions in various legal matters, especially for the pursuit of universal law, has a special importance for each of us, in cooperation with 21 international institutions, in 96 different countries, so that our judges can intern in European Court of Human Rights or in international institutions, such as the Council of Europe. After all, since the success of the academy was internationally accepted, it has now been made available to thousands of different foreign judges from 41 different countries, Sweden to Italy, from America to China to Turkey. The success of the Academy of Justice, especially in carrying out justice, is the success of all of us in the international sense. Because once we get justice done, we'll be able to prevent any further injustices from being done. However, we can prevent the same injustices from happening to different people. So one day a mother came to us and my Yasin was only 16 years old. He was thrown from the 5th floor and his head crushed with a stone. He was cremated and his body was dumped in a dumpster like a garbage bag. If you couldn't stop it, at least other mothers wouldn't be hurt in the same way as me. We've all been through this together. We can't change yesterday, but it's possible for us to fight for today and for the rest of it. It's possible that we're all fighting together to make sure that the sense of justice is actually fulfilled. Despite all challenges today, it is important that this Parliament can take a joint stand against the coup against justice, then civilise the judiciary in the constitutional amendment adopted by our people in a referendum, the military Supreme Court, the lift of military high administration courts or in cases closed to the Constitution, in fact, the opening of the judiciary is a key step towards the principle of justice. May I finish, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0383par0134	Sure, go ahead, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0382par0135	After all, every act of individual justice we do today in order to carry out justice shows the legacy we will give to the generation after us. As we've accomplished this before, I think we can all do together as individuals representing the entire community in the House, such an important task that should not only be left to the Justice Academy or the Justice Department alone. With that thought, I salute each and every one of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0384par0139	Thank you, Mr. Benli. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Denizli MP Cahit Özkan. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0385par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018. I salute the High Council. The Judiciary Board of Judges and Prosecutors shall, as it is known, carry out the administration and control of the judiciary. If we're talking about the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, we must understand the custody of the past. I believe we will come to the right conclusion when we analyze the arguments we've had in the judiciary in the last 15 or 20 years to understand what custody is. Custody justice is a judgment shaped by coupgers, coup constitutions. Custody judgment is a judgment that protects the status quo of the coupgers instead of answering to the public. Instead of making judgments in accordance with the principles of neutral, independent, fair judgment and delivering justice, it is to protect the status quo. That's why he needed to be under democratic control. The way to be an independent and impartial trial, which is open to democratic control, which is legitimate in the eyes of the nation, is to build the judiciary in accordance with its understanding, as it says on the wall of the Grand Assembly. Here, the fight against the guardian justice that existed before the AK PARTY governments has been a fundamental issue of all governments. From yesterday to today, all governments have put up a fight to make the custody court a fair and impartial justice with democratic legitimacy. See, in the past, there was no justice, there was no trust in the judiciary, half of every 100 cases, unfortunately, have been acquitted, and citizens were wrongfully condemned. In the 1990s, political assassinations, social events, and the environments that wanted to determine society and individual through the judiciary and govern Turkey through a specific prototype used the judiciary and look at the decisions of the judiciary at that time; the defendant-defensive, accused-involved, brought this nation face to face with verdicts that no one was satisfied with. We're making decisions on behalf of the so-called nation. They've only been judged on behalf of the Turkish nation by a biased, non-independent, pro-Status, mind-blowing understanding of the coup status quo. So, all the reforms we've done for him, of course, can't fit in five minutes -- and there was only one reason for the constitutional and legal regulations we've made, which is to build an independent and impartial judiciary. We have a long tradition, we have values of civilization, and the modern world has developed decisions that the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, has made about Turkey. There are advanced democracies, countries with high legitimacy, where judicial decisions are being made. We have followed the example of all these countries, and with constitutional and legal reforms we've done, we've brought the Council of Judges and Prosecutors to democratic legitimacy today. Hopefully, as Megelelle wrote in Megelelle... what she said in Megelelle: she will be without sides, she will be judge, she will be judge, she will be judge, she will be written, she will be wise, she will be fit, she will be fit. We're going to take this much further. We have an acquish to imitate, we have historical wealth. On the other hand, advanced democracies have judicial institutions; countries of the Council of Europe have regulations and decisions made by the Court of Human Rights confirm our reforms. Hopefully, with the reforms we've made so far, our judicial organization will walk into the future with a much more democratic, much more reassuring understanding in the eyes of the nation. If we have a constant, let's put it together. Here is Turkey's membership in the Council of Europe, in the direction of the European Convention on Human Rights, and in the court decisions it has made, with an understanding that our nation will meet the need for fair, neutral and independent judgment, in which hope our judgment will meet the need of our nation. Hopefully, the 2018 Council of Judges and Prosecutors wishes our budget to bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and I salute you with respect and conversation, from the great God, that our country should walk into the future with a light, fair, neutral and independent judgment.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0386par0152	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now, on behalf of him, Mr. Hülya Nergis, a member of the Kaiseri. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0387par0158	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge in the fourth round of the 2018 Budget Law Bill we're discussing. I hereby salute your high council. In the period of our governments, important steps have been taken to develop and strengthen the rule of law on the basis of human rights since 2002. For the first time the protection of personal data as a right, the first constitutional protection of children's rights, the development of union freedoms, the right to a collective contract for public officials, the removal of the Constitutional decree on the constitutional level, which stipulates the removal of the parliamentary legislature, which has caused the closure of its party and its actions. During the time of our governments, the legal security of our citizens has been increased and the right-seeking methods have also been increased. The possibility of individual application to the Constitutional Court has been included in our system as a means of internal law that our citizens can apply for after the consumption of all administrative and legal processes. So, on the one hand, the victims of our citizens are quickly resolved, while the number of applications against our country to the European Court of Human Rights has been severely reduced. This has been one of the most important reforms we've had in our judicial system during the time of our governments. The concept of neutrality in the judiciary is as important as independence. The date of April 16, 2017 is an important expression on the constitutional level of the two concepts that complement each other and the normalisation of our judicial system. A public vote carried out on this date has led to a number of radical changes in the Constitutional provisions and a restructuring of issues concerning the judiciary. All military courts except disciplinary courts and the Military Supreme Court and Military Supreme Administration Court have been dismissed. Thus, a matter long discussed in Turkey has been resolved. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been renamed as the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the structure of the board and the membership election system have been reorganised. The election of seven of the members of the HSK by the TBM opened the way for the national will to be reflected in the rule of justice. This step also strengthened the accountability and democratic legitimacy of the judiciary. In the period of our governments, the transition process, which began with the Turkish Penal Code, the Penal Code, the Turkish Law of Debts, the Turkish Law of Trade and Law of Laws, continued with the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law. In addition, important innovations have been brought into the execution of the Law on Crimes, Punishment and Security Measures, including the Law on Law, Controlled Freedom and Help Centres and the Protection Boards Law, the Law on Child Protection, the Law on Information Law, the Law on Knowledge, and the Law on Protection of Personal Data. A pre-investigation mechanism for abstract reporting and complaints has been created by the amendment to Article 158 of the Penal Code. The lengthy solution of the conflict of employment affected our workers, on the other hand, employers. Therefore, it was important that the solution of business discrepancies be met quickly and effectively. In effect, a significant change has been made in our legal system with the Law on Business Courts 7036, which was adopted on October 12, 2017 at the Grand National Assembly of TBM. With this amendment, some business discrepancies are subject to mediation. In the 2018 years that we've been negotiating, I wish the Central Management Budget Law to be good and good for our beloved nation, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit07spe0388par0167	Thank you, Mr. Nargis. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0388par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for a speech on behalf of the government. First speaker, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mehmet Özhaseki. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0009	Mr. President, I'd like to present you with some information about the work and goals of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council. Our ministry has been given a wide range of tasks, from protecting the environment and its natural assets to running urban transformations, planning and approval on all scales, to building public buildings, increasing energy efficiency, controlling structures with building materials, the establishment of national geographical information systems, and financial and technical support for local governments. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, with the Industrial Revolution, people have begun to immigrate heavily into cities. The formation of large cities began to cause people to consume more and dirty more there. We've started to produce a lot, we've started to consume a lot. We used to produce little, we used to consume little, and we didn't desecrate the environment, but with the formation of the big cities, the balance was broken, unfortunately. The ancients used to say: "Life prevails on four foundations: One is the air, the second is the water, the third is the earth, and the fourth is the energy. " Nature is created on a balance. If this balance is broken, and the four major elements that I've just counted may slowly start to become catastrophic, so droughts, floods, disasters, are chasing each other. According to the United Nations report, in 2050, the world reached 9 billion populations, increasing waste-instruction, destroying life and ecosystems. The Earth's surface temperature from 1850 to this side increased plus 1 degree, sea level increased plus 19 centimeters, and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere increased by 42 percent. It's almost time for the world to take a quick step towards the environment and do some very important work together. We see the environment as a trust. Indeed, our most precious asset to our children must be the environment. The thing we're most difficult to do here as Ministry is the environmental balance of investment. On the one hand, we are a country that has to be invested, and we are a developing and developing country, and on the other hand, it's about whether those investments don't contaminate or destroy the environment. Well, that's a pretty tough balance to come by. However, just as a bee travels on flowers to make honey, collects pollen, then does the world's most precious food, if it doesn't harm the flowers, here's the thing about investments, as well as our efforts as the Ministry continue at the same point. In fact, I have not only the AK PARTY, but I have a lot of MHP, CHP, even the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) friends to thank because they're calling me day and night about some environmental destruction that's going around them, all of them together, we're going through disaster in that neighborhood, and we're getting results from all of them. And at this point, I want to thank all of our friends who have helped us. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you some information on our performance as Ministry in about 15 topics in the past 15 years. We have a project that we've just started, and we're going to start at the Presidential Chamber, and we're going to expand it to all public enterprises in Ankara next year, Project Zero Waste. So as a result of this Zero Waste Project, we isolate its source first, and then we make the last remaining organic material into fertilizer, which comes out as zero waste. We'll start implementing this next year in all public enterprises and places where it's lived collectively within Ankara, and then we'll spread it to Turkey. Look, in a few months, in about five months, we've collected 58 tons of paper, 14 tons of plastic, 3 tons of glass, 1.5 tons of metal as a result of the work we've started in our Ministry. According to our friends, we've saved 980 trees because of the paper we collected and the waste we've been able to prevent. Another study of solid waste storage facilities. Dear lawmakers, there were only 15 facilities in 2002, as Turkey, as a country; now, as of 2017, this reached 87. We have close to 1,400. Our municipality, which is 1,112, is now using solid waste storage facilities, which address 53 million populations. By the end of the year, four more facilities are coming online, and we're getting 180MWs of electricity from these facilities. In the past, medical waste used to do nothing as a country, but now there are three burn facilities, 58 medical waste sterilization facilities, which are being safely managed. Thirdly, the hazardous waste recycling plant, as of today, has reached 434. The number of dangerous waste regular storage facilities has reached eight. Another indicator on this is the prevention of environmental pollution, such as wastewater treatment facilities, in order to allow wastewater to be given to the recipient. In the early 2000s, only 35 percent of the population received wastewater treatment services, while as of today, by cleaning up all the waste that 82 per cent of our country's population had thrown out. We've set up an online monitoring facility for the release of treatment facilities with capacity of over 10,000 per day. The number of facilities that have been integrated in continuous wastewater monitoring, which began with 30 facilities in 2012, has now risen to 220. In the last six months, our Ministry has paid 216 million liras that correspond to 50 per cent of the energy costs of wastewater treatment facilities to encourage the management of the waste treatment plant. In 2017, another $63m will help our municipalities in this regard. In addition, we work at six basins, 83 points to determine the quality of water in the basin. The study of integrated pollution in the seas and the study of pollution in all our seas is also done to monitor ecological and chemical quality. In this context, at 272 points, pollution in the seas has been established as a monitoring infrastructure. In 2002, our blue flag beach number reached 454. At this point, we're the world's 2nd, so hopefully we'll get the 1st place soon. In the past, there was no waste-buying service from ships, but in 2017, there was a waste-buying service at 277 ports. Another study is about the air quality monitoring network. This activity, launched in 2005 with 36 stations, has now expanded to 253 stations in 81 counties. The measurement of exhaust emissions... is monitored in real time 24/7 by our ministry of 609 chimneys... with a continuous measurement system and 270 facilities from large industrial facilities and those facilities. In fact, as a result of all the work we've done in 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017, the Medal of Honor was awarded to our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make another point here. Maybe it's something that's been talked about a lot and comes to your agenda, and global warming and climate change are also on the international agenda as the most important environmental problem facing humanity. Our country is faithfully fulfilling its role in fighting climate change. In 2004, we sided with the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol in 2009. In this regard, we also prepared the National Climate Change Strategy and the Climate Change Action Plan. On April 21, 2016, we signed the Paris Agreement. We also reported to the United Nations Change Secretariat that by 2030 we could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 21 percent. At this point, at the Green Climate Fund, we have a conflict. In particular, we have representatives from Turkey who went to the meeting of the United Nations in New York, which was held abroad in 1992 -- frankly, I don't want to disturb you by giving you the names of those who already have mercy -- but while the contracts are being made there, we are not the developing country, we are the developed country, write us down there. And then, when we get to the extracurricular class, the truth is, they won't let us in here now. They say: "You will give money and you will provide technology assistance as well as funding. " We explain that this is unfair on every platform we go to. We are now facing a scene that, because of the mistake of our friends who went to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, China, Brazil, South Korea, India, Singapore, South Africa, will receive help, benefit from financing, Green Climate Fund, and also benefit from technology support, but as Turkey, we will continue to give it money and also support technology. I explained this in a one-hour meeting with the Secretary General of the United Nations in Bonn. When we talk to many foreign ministers, the environmental minister, no one wants us to be given a piece of his own cake, and they insist that we support it. So I told him we were going out. Either you take us into the class of countries that have reached the Green Climate Fund, or you bring us to the extra countries class, or we don't approve of the Paris Accord, and we show them our attitude. In all the meetings in the coming days, I think Turkey's topic will probably continue to take its place as the first agenda. Because we're right about our bet. On the other hand, when we look at the order of countries that are polluting the world, China is getting help, one in the class of countries that are polluting the world by 29.5 percent. The United States said it's already been withdrew, about 15 percent in the ranking countries that are polluting the world. The EU is in the ranking of countries that are polluting the world with 28 countries by 9.6. I'm talking about the EU, where it keeps giving us advice. India is 6.6, Russia is 5, Japan is 3.5, Germany is 2 and Turkey is under 1. We're dirtying and we have to help, and we have to reduce emissions, so we're in a difficult situation. But on every platform, we'll continue to explain what we're right, and we'll continue to express our country's claims about it there. Hopefully, when this injustice is lifted, we'll bring the Paris Agreement here, and we'll talk here, and we'll argue, and we'll put it into effect, and we'll try to do whatever it is that's on us. In fact, in the interest of not polluting the environment in our work, in the name of global warming, not just the Paris Agreement that connects us here, but we are already doing our part as a country; the work of the 12 articles that I've just counted, none of which have been declared to us by the West, and the work we've done with our municipalities to protect our environment in our own interest, in order not to destroy nature. We're not going to learn from them either, but at the point of resolving an injustice, we're going to continue to make a strong statement here. Dear lawmakers, we also have important work at the point of supporting our municipalities for investments in environmental infrastructure in our country. At this point, in the past 15 years, the 12.477 project has also received conditional cash assistance as Ministry for $1 billion,511 million. In addition, 711m euros have been earmarked for our country's environmental sector for the IPA 1 period, covering the 2007-2013 financial aid provided by the European Union. At the point of environmental impact assessment, we all know that investments are an important process for measuring environmental impacts and taking necessary measures. The CED regulations were revised in May, in accordance with the European Union's integration efforts and the needs of our country. In the regulation, the process of public participation has been further strengthened, and regulations have been fully harmonised with the European Union's CED directive, except for issues that are crossing the border. The CED report on one of our fellow speakers' mining projects here is an unwanted Ministry. I've heard something like the expression, and I'm sorry to say, well, there is no such thing as a CED exemption, and we need to know that. Our Ministry is also carrying out an important mission regarding the detection, registration, protection of protected areas. Natural sites, all planning and implementation of private environmental protection zones are run by our Ministry. In 21 counties, the demands of citizens and public institutions for natural status areas are quickly and effectively concluded with 27 regional commissions to protect nature's assets. In fact, at some point of renovation work, and actually before we announce all the information that we have, friends within our General Directorate are going to the area to gather citizens, call municipalities, hold meetings with NGOs, and explain how their territory is going to work out in the future, and I think we're doing our part of the job. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have a few words to say in the area of urbanism. Our cities are especially ancient and ancient cities, and when we look at the history of our cities, we see that even governments are too old for life. These cities are living organisms, they're alive, they're not supposed to be rock, they're dirt, they want care, and we all need to know that they need constant care. On this land, we have established two important ancient civilizations, one Seljukian civilization, and one Ottoman civilization. Now, hopefully, we're building a republican civilization, and I wish that we could all live together in peace, in peace, building this civilization in our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But while we're expressing our cities, there are a few things that I have to say to any party, especially here, that I don't mean by it, that I don't mean by it. At the point of our migration, especially at the point of the floods of the great cities starting from the 1950s, our municipalities were sadly caught off guard, unaware of what to do with those migrations, and some of our municipalities were a little ideological. In that case, it would be correct to say that in the face of this wave of migration that began in the 1950s and 1960s, our municipalities suffered a complete loss. Another unfortunate thing is that we're here to plan late. The first plans in Turkey coincide with almost 1925, the 1930s. When we go to New York, when we go to Washington, when we learn that the 1711s are being planned, I am really depressed as a Turk. In a country that has 300, 400 years of history, planning is three hundred years old, but come to our country, where there's been a civilization that has lived for 10,000 years, which has lived many nations, which have established civilizations, and we boast that we have ancient cities, but our plans are eighty, a hundred years old. So when we come to the 2000s, we get caught off guard by the wave of migration, sometimes our ideological attitudes, sometimes, you know, our late approach to these plans brings us a sad picture. What is this? First of all, we have unhealthy cities. And secondly, we have unidentified cities. We all have to accept that. Now that we're all together, you've done what we can do with our heads in our hands, and I've done it. We need to get out of there and take the right steps. It's 1/100 to plan in that sense. As the Ministry for planning the environmental order, we have completed over 99 per cent, preparing urban design projects. We've prepared urban design guides. We're still working on it with all our municipalities. We're also a little short on planning the coastal areas, and we're going to finish planning our country's integrated coastal areas soon, hopefully. I'd like to emphasize something about zoning legislation here. Our municipal friends know, there was a code called Planned Areas Type Development. Our municipalities were a little freed there, so they were applying whatever regulations they could use. Our complaint was that it was a great abuse door. We've even seen the right to build 100 square meters of construction up there to 150 to 200 square meters. How did they do it? They're putting in a 50-metre winter garden, not zoning. They're putting 200 square feet of balconies, not zoning. So we're looking at a huge area, 100 square meters of houses, up to 250, 300 square meters. Everyone was doing it. I don't need to name names, this party, this party, I don't need to say, their names, they're all ruined by me, so I'll give them to anyone outside. So we've prepared a Type-Builder Act that will get in the way of that. We've cut and identified areas that don't count as zoning there. And that's 35 percent, so they can't get out of it, so they're going to solve the hallway spaces, elevator shafts, balconies in this, no abuse. And secondly, we've established different zoning regulations, according to the municipalities. We've written down the unchanging regulations of the development, we've written down the articles, but there's also private spaces that we've left for them so it doesn't become one with Istanbul and Songsh. They will continue to determine for themselves from now on. Oh, by the way, parking regulations will be out soon. The parking lot has tripled the obligation. There used to be a parking structure for three buildings and now it's a parking lot for every independent unit.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0036	What happened to all that parking money, Mr. Secretary, all that parking money?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0037	Parking money, which used to be collected, cannot be used outside the parking lot. In this gathering district, they were melting it in its own budget, rather than being sent to major cities that were going to build parking. And since that wasn't a criminal procedure, everyone was on top of it, using it, and nothing was happening to them.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0038	No, yes, there is, my dear Minister, the penal code of misconduct is in 257.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0039	I know, nothing's ever happened to anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0040	No one's complaining. I complained. They said mine was very comfortable, Menfaatin, no harm done. In fact, if you did it as a ministry, everyone would be punished.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0391par0041	We're listening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0042	Here's the thing about malpractice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0043	He says it's bad.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0044	He's either gonna get himself something, give it to the other guy, or he's gonna hurt the public. Now, he's got the money for the parking lot, he's using it in the city, which one of these is it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0045	It's pointless.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0389par0046	That's what the law says.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0390par0047	No, it's in the law, but it's out of the question.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0392par0048	Dear Regent, let him finish, ask questions.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0393par0049	Minister, let's continue.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0394par0050	Madam Secretary, Tanal always says we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0395par0051	Mr. Tanal, let's hear from the Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0396par0052	I'm saying something constructive.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0397par0053	Yeah, we're just having a conversation. It's okay, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0398par0054	I think it's important.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0399par0055	In fact, it's a very good subject, a subject of Turkey's gangrene.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0397par0056	So, guys, here I'm actually -- we're running out of time -- I want to talk about two things. One of them is about earthquakes. Yeah, I don't like to bring this up, but, guys, let's just say, look, I'm talking about the data that I have. That's not what I made up in my imagination, and that's not what I'm saying to come up from time to time. That's one. In the last hundred years in this country, there are 6,00 and 56 earthquakes above, 100,000 people lost, 100 billion dollars in losses. The northern Anatolian fault line is now on our doorstep as a threat. Whether you want to hear it or not, tell me what this guy's saying all the time, but there's trouble like this.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0400par0058	Sir, we've heard that they've opened the earthquake sites in Istanbul, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0401par0059	Mr. Tanal, please listen.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0402par0060	Let him finish.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0400par0061	Gathering grounds, I mean.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0403par0062	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0063	Look, my friends -- they're saying from time to time -- the gathering areas are: since I was mayor in my day, there are no zoning notes in the development plans, such as housing, such as green space, there are no plans, either friends, or gathering areas. The mayors meet with the AFAD, meet with the governorate, and they say, "Where are the empty spaces? When an earthquake occurs here, where will the people gather? For this reason, regardless of the status of property, empty spaces for any citizen, zoning conditions are found, books are processed, skims, municipalities, and citizens are told: "When you're depressed, you'll come here." This will be the tent city, and this will be the container.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0405par0064	But they built the green area.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0406par0065	No, Mr. Secretary, there's nothing stopping the operation, nothing stopping the construction.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0066	Look, it's like this: it's not fair to say in general, but that's how it's done. The latest studies in Istanbul are already highly public. At the moment, 2,275 concentration sites have been identified, one by one, as to who it belongs to on the Anatolian side, and which ones are on the European side. It's no bigger crime if someone actually comes in here and builds a green field. I don't have that kind of sin, not in the mayor's office, not now. I'm fighting this to the end.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0405par0068	He's the only one who's just seen it. It's the old-timer's fault.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0069	I'm especially sending people back from Istanbul with the deed. We're just making public plans. So we're signing projects about planning a hospital or planning a social home that needs to be done there. There's nothing more beautiful about that than everyone being sensitive. The only way to avoid these humiliations is to act collectively. Now, for example, there's an incident in Copperville, and Mr. Garo is coming, and the Copperville team is coming, and we're moving together. We're gonna stop, guys, there's no other way, that's all we have to do. Thank you all for being so sensitive about this.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0407par0070	The previous ministry gave it to him, and the ministry before you gave it permission. I mean, that's the worst part.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0405par0071	Okay, this department canceled it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0072	Let me tell you something, fellas: there's a joint responsibility in development, and I mean it. Please, as a friend of yours who's been mayor for years, there's a joint responsibility in development. If there are more than 10 institutions in Turkey who are now authorized to make zoning plans, you can't follow the construction in Turkey, it's very difficult.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0408par0073	Not in the big cities.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0074	And the city has the authority to make the real plan. The mayors are coming in for five years. For example, my plans... even though I was mayor in 1994, friends, began implementing plans made in 1985, the plans of the late Niyazi Bey. Now that I'm gone, someone else is following the same plans. Who did it, who did it, and we're looking at it as a whole other field. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear President, if you'll just give me a few more minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0409par0077	I think you should give me ten more minutes, Mr. President. I'm sorry I took the time.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0078	It's from you, Mr. Mahmut, I know.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0410par0079	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0080	Now, sir, we've set up a set of plans, especially for urban transformation, and we've set the groundwork. Look, I'm going to take this very seriously from now on: If we're doing an urban transformation somewhere, the first is the transformation in place. We're not going to allow municipalities that can't be transformed in their place. It's easy; it's the transformation in its place. Second, if there's a citizen whose house has been destroyed, we'll definitely give him a house -- a municipality or a government -- if we're doing it, we'll have to give it to him. Third, the areas we've evacuated will be social donuts. And we're not gonna let the municipalities that don't bring it as a social donut. We've seen it abused before, and we won't let them. By the way...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0411par0085	What are you going to do to Hecin, Minister, that the Hecin are listening to you now, the Straight Hecin? The Straight Hecin are very important.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0086	Let them listen. In particular, the work in the new reserve areas will be based on the neighborhood plan, so the neighborhood plan that we're all missing is, you know, friends, not high, it's about the ongoing neighboring relationship.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0412par0088	With squares...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0089	That's right. We allow that kind of project to come in, and other than that, we don't allow it. I, if you'll excuse me, would like to give you a few examples of the work we've done on the seven districts called terrorist zones. There were over 70,000 damaged houses there. We talked a lot about how this happened, so I never go in there. Except I'm on the production side now. There's about 26,000 unusable houses. We started all those houses and we're doing it. At this point, our agreement rates are 93 per cent in Şırnak, 92 per cent in Silopi, 76 per cent in Idil, 75 per cent in Cizre, 51 per cent in Hakari and Turkey. Why are some of them low? The citizen says, "I will fix my house and I will sit down." You give me my money. We'll make sure you don't look weak and sound here. It'll break down. Come and we'll give you a clean house. In many places, I built houses and delivered them, but some of them do. Let me show you some examples of them. Friends, this is the last of our constructions in Idil. There were also one - story houses in Idil, built about 350 of these houses, with a garden, because the citizen wanted one - story dwellings. We're giving these houses away.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0413par0094	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0095	The silopi, friends, are the homes that we built in Silopi.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0413par0097	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0404par0098	We've delivered these houses, too. Of course, some citizens...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0414par0099	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0413par0100	Let's see these, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0414par0101	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you a three-minute extension.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0415par0102	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0414par0103	We interrupt the other minister's right to speak.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0416par0104	You're using it for AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0417par0105	What about five minutes of me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0414par0106	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0418par0107	Friends, these are the multi-levels that were made in Silvio.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0419par0109	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0418par0110	This isn't animation, is it, friends? Now, friends, I want to come to Sur. Wall is worth something to all of us. There was a shootout there. Some 35-40 per cent of the area in which there was conflict. There's a lot of work to be done there. We're dealing day and night with an environment where we can build those traditional houses without all those high-rises that we're really uncomfortable with.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0420par0112	They don't want to go out.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0418par0113	I'd like to show you some of the work there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0420par0114	They don't want to go out, they want to live there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0418par0115	That's Burn Market. This is what Burn Market looks like now, my friends. There we started healing the streets. The view on Veteran Street is friends. This is the view of Veteran Street. (AK PARTY) (Bravo (PLAYING, CHEERING) In the same way...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0421par0116	You're changing the demographic structure there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0418par0117	Let me explain. If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you about it. I'll tell you what we're offering the citizens there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0422par0118	They don't want to leave, and right now thousands of people don't want to emigrate in the snow and winter conditions.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0423par0119	You address us, Mr. Secretary, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0424par0120	Minister, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0425par0121	Guys, those shops.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0426par0123	So you're applauding 35,000 people on the street.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0425par0124	They're old friends of that Great Mosque. The most beautiful, oldest mosque in Anatolia was built during the Hazreti Omar era.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0427par0125	The mosque in Diyarbakır, in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0425par0126	Diyarbakır. Here's how it ends, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0427par0129	What does it have to do with the wall area? Where's the wall, where's the wall?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0428par0130	That's public service.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0425par0131	Friends, this is the old place with the sacred Solomon Mosque and the sacribe shrines. And that's the new one, guys. This is the new one.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0429par0133	Congratulations to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0430par0134	And don't offer it as a thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0425par0135	Friend, at least say thank you, please! It won't go away! Say thank you!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0429par0136	We thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0431par0137	No, no, no, no! If the bangs say it!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0432par0138	It's the people's thanks that counts.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0433par0139	You've been mayor there for years, so why didn't you do it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0434par0140	You destroyed history, history.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0433par0141	I have a right to ask that. (AK PARTY) You should have done it. Those houses are being built, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0435par0142	There's no change there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0434par0143	So, is there a date, Mr. Secretary? Tell me about history. You spilled concrete, you did it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0433par0144	Look, my friends, these friends talk a lot, this is the house next to the Great Mosque, that was history.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0436par0145	That's what they call history, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0433par0146	So, that was the date; now these guys, here's the date.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0437par0148	But you've been in power for 15 years!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0438par0149	It's very good, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0439par0150	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0440par0151	Next to the Great Mosque, there are no houses, there are shops; there are shops, not houses. Minister, there are shops at the end of the Great Mosque, no houses, they're deceiving you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0152	Mr. Mahmut, please... I go there more than the Diyarbakır MPs.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0442par0155	We've never met!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0156	I'll tell you step by step, step by step, I'll tell you. And we have assigned this house that we built to the imam of the Great Mosque, because it is next to the Great Mosque.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0443par0158	I know, look, I've prayed in that Great Mosque, so may God accept everyone's, but it's not.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0159	May God accept it, how wonderful! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] These are the houses we built in Diyarbakir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Guys, look, we've built about 6,500 houses in the Triads position, in the Deserty Seas.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0444par0164	Can you give me one more minute, Mr. President? One minute.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0445par0165	Mr. Secretary, one minute, please finish.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0166	We say to the citizen, friends, look, I say this for our citizens who live in the area, who live in Tyre. One: Have your homes been destroyed here? Yes, it has been destroyed. Let's pay for the land if you want it, and let's pay for the land. This is the first choice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0446par0167	Freedoms are not for sale, Minister. Is that even possible? I mean, I take freedom, I print money, there's no such rule.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0447par0168	You don't get the deed to the house with the money you give, Mr. Secretary, the deed.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0169	If you'll excuse me... just a minute. Two: do you want an open house? If you want an open house, go ahead, there are these houses I showed you, you can go out and sit down.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0447par0171	It's a loan, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0172	We pull back 30 percent of the cost, we give out these houses for almost free, that's our second choice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0447par0173	Free? Name your price, your price. It's free!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0448par0174	Don't, Minister, don't!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0175	Three, we say, do you want to build your house in your place, your house is destroyed?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0449par0176	He doesn't want to go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0177	Let's give you the money for the destruction, help you with the project, build your house.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0450par0179	How much are you paying? What's all the money you call it? Name me a price.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0180	The fourth choice: if you wait a moment, we'll build these historical houses, you have the first choice, we'll give it to you, brother.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0451par0181	How much will you get, Minister? How much will you get?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0441par0182	We're going to give it to the people who live in it. We're going to give it to them. We're going to give it to the people who live in it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0452par0183	They give a hole, you give a house.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0453par0184	You'll give it to him if anyone gives you more money?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0454par0185	How much will you sell it for?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0455par0186	Why do you bother with what I'm saying?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0456par0188	They dig the hole, you give the house.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0454par0189	No. How much will you sell it for?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0457par0190	No, how much are you getting paid? Give me the money.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0458par0191	Answer my question.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0459par0192	Why do you bother with what I'm saying? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, at the same time, every citizen we agree to, we give them rent money, whatever it takes to get out of the house from the day we call it an empty house.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0458par0196	How much are you paying? Enough to stay in the henhouse?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0459par0197	Honestly, I'm doing the best I can.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0460par0199	Way to go! Good work!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0458par0200	Yeah, yeah. Go out, go out in public, see if you can get out.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0459par0201	Bottom line, guys, this is what we do.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0458par0202	You steal it and play it yourself!
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0459par0203	We're not really doing it to get a thank-you. We believe we're doing it for the brotherhood's law to show the state's compassion there, to show that it's covering the wounds. I'm doing it as a mission, and I'm honored to do it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0461par0206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0462par0207	We're not only doing it in Diyarbakir, we're doing it in Susova, we're doing it in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0463par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0461par0209	Mr. Timberboy, I can't hear you, just a second.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0463par0210	Mr. Secretary, I go there more than the Diyarbakır MPs. A deputy of ours would like to explain his information on the current situation, if you promise.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0461par0211	Okay, in your place. Mr. Heroalp, here, I'll turn on your microphone. As Diyarbakır MP, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0464par0216	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says he's been there more than the Diyarbakır MPs. That's right, compared to the AKP MPs, he's doing the right thing, so he's probably staying there to cover it up.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0465par0217	What kind of language is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0464par0218	Let's just say there's still a ban going on, five neighborhoods. For a year and a half, former Home Secretary Efkan Ala, who said the operation was over, is still banned, no one has been able to go there. In the winter conditions of 35,000 people, their electricity was cut, their water was cut, their sewers were blocked; they were forced, forced, forced to migrate. In these conditions, people want to live like this in their homes, and with what right, with what power, with what force, do you have to send people out of there, design a house for yourself, and sell it to them over tens of times their purchase power, and explain it as a gift? And worst of all, the people here were able to applaud the migration of 35,000 people. I invite you to be a little conscientious.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0466par0221	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0467par0222	Mr. President, everyone knows why we applaud.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0468par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0469par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0470par0225	Mr. Secretary, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0468par0226	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll be brief.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0470par0227	I'll give you a minute...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0471par0228	I asked for word according to 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0470par0229	All right, Mr. Ozkoch, I'll give you time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0232	She's just talking about people being forced to move out of there, planning and selling it in our own way. Look, we don't have anything planned for ourselves here. There's a zoning plan built by your previous municipality. Did you hear that? You don't know.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0233	How do you know we don't know?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0234	You're just talking because you don't know.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0236	How do you know?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0237	We're implementing a protection zoning plan there, a protection zoning plan.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0238	Why did you take over the house?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0239	How do you know it was us?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0240	I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. Are you asking for an answer from here?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0241	Guys, I'm speaking to you right now.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0242	I don't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0243	No one's being relocated there, no one's being sent. And we're explaining every single one of the proposals I've just made to the citizens...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0244	Thousands of years of historical houses were destroyed.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0245	...and our rate of agreement is already 100 percent there. If he wants an outside house, we'll go home, offer him a place to stay, and we'll keep paying rent from the first day he gets out.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0246	Thousands of years of historical homes...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0247	There's no victims there, and people just want their homes done fast.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0248	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0472par0249	But it's kind of hard. Why is that so hard? After all these plans have been made, he enters the protection boards, he gets approval from the boards, we do it after approval, and they're right about that delay.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0474par0250	Minister, did you leave a place to protect yourself? You've destroyed them.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0473par0251	Mr. Secretary, thousands of years of homes have been destroyed. If I don't call you "sir" to speak from above, you can't call me "ma'am."
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0475par0253	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0476par0255	Mr. President, I listened very carefully as the Minister spoke. I'm also a Clumsy Congressman. Sakarya is an earthquake zone, and we suffered a great deal of pain there. Mr. Secretary, as you describe it, you say that the gathering areas are not legally shown. In this regard, the governor, the county co-ordinating board, meets with the mayors to identify empty spaces -- regardless of who it belongs to -- and we will use those areas. The site of the old stadium, which will be used as a gathering place in Sakarya, is now sold, and a 40-acre plot of land has been opened. If the areas to be used as a gathering area in these areas were to be developed by municipalities, how would these areas be identified and used?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0475par0258	Mr. Ozkoch, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0476par0259	Mr. Secretary, I'm saying that from the moment of the earthquake, you go out to save your life, and when you go out, you look at your family, and then you turn your head, and the building is completely destroyed, and there's noises coming from under the rubble. What comes to mind at that moment is: How can I ask for help? Where am I gonna go? In Sakarya, people don't know which meeting grounds to reach, they don't know what areas the health care services will be in, they don't know which schools have the equipment and how to reach them. If an earthquake were to happen today, we would experience the same pain and suffering in Sakarya. For this reason, the gathering areas are required by the state, where these areas are collected in earthquakes, and this area must not be opened. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's one or two more things I'd like to say, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0477par0262	I know what you mean. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0476par0264	Mr. Secretary, after the earthquake, also about the fault, my future -- our citizen, he builds houses and gives property to people in that earthquake area with his own property. By law, as in Sakarya, citizens hand these houses over to the state to be delivered to the citizens. But the government here is lending the buildings to the citizens, including the cost, that's not true. Each of our citizens receives money from the earthquake tax, and the money from the earthquake tax must be paid here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0478par0265	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0476par0266	Mr. President, if there were victims in Sur....then the people in those houses did not feed the terror. The people who live there are innocent, citizens of the Republic of Turkey. It's the government that lets the terrorist militants in there open the tunnels and put bombs in the vents because we're going to bring an agreement that feeds terrorism. The reason for this, Mr. Secretary, is that after they've been in there, after those people's homes have been destroyed, you'll get $30 billion, get out of here, and I'll give you this much money if you want to move into your new home. It doesn't apply to the conscience of the state of the Republic of Turkey to tell the poor and the victims, Mr. President. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0479par0268	What are you talking about? What's that got to do with anything? What are you talking about? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0480par0269	Let's do this in QA, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0481par0270	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have something to say.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0482par0271	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0481par0272	Mr. Secretary just told me about his work on the stand. We thank you, one minute, plus two minutes, and then you added three minutes from our ministers. Mr. Secretary, you'll give me three minutes to explain your actions here, but Mr. Deputy Secretary of the Group, if so, let him go out and talk to the Minister, tell him about the matter with Sakarya, explain it; he's got good ideas, let him do it, but there's no such procedure, Mr. President, please warn me if I'm doing it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0483par0274	Mr. President, just for the record.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0484par0275	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0483par0276	Mr. President, thank you so much for your sensitivity to the dignity of the House. Just as the AK PARTI MPs spoke, they each asked you for almost a minute and two minutes to finish their vows. You made a promise to them, and we really appreciated it, even though it wasn't a procedure like this. If a minister is not finished speaking, then you must promise him three minutes, five minutes, because he is the minister of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0485par0277	Good.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0483par0278	...is the minister of all of us, it's our business. And I don't understand why a group of vice presidents can't handle another group of vice presidents talking one minute too much. I blame them for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0281	I'm sorry, group vice presidents must be the best fit for the procedure. The majority of the group's deputy presidents must comply with the procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0487par0282	Well, thank you, lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0283	The majority of the group's deputy presidents must comply with the procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0488par0284	Let's continue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0487par0285	Mr. Elitaş, it's all right, it's on the record, your reviews, your proposals.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0286	He must warn those who are out of order.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0489par0287	That's very rude of you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0288	It's not a shame, it's a shame what you did.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0289	After all, he's a congressman, a group of vice presidents...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0489par0290	You need to digest a little.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0291	Mr. President, we can't talk for ten minutes, but this is business.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0292	...one minute less talk, one minute more talk, and let's not do the math, please. 80 million people are watching us here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0294	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0295	Sir, you didn't turn on the microphone, either, you know.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0296	No, I didn't.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0297	We'll be fine if we turn the mike on.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0298	But I can't stop you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0299	That's nice of you. The opposite must show the same courtesy.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0300	Since I've shown everyone the same courtesy...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0491par0301	He's showing the same courtesy to AKP lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0486par0302	Mr. President, thank you, you're being kind.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0490par0303	Thank you, thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, Mr. Elvan, in his speech in the previous session, Mr. Özbakir, the number of terror prisoners and prisoners in our prisons has now dropped to 59,600. Of these, 45,600 have been arrested, and the rest have been arrested by PKK and other terrorist organizations. Then Mr. Nihat Akdoğan, MP of Hakkari, asked him, "Do you include HDP?" He answered, "Yes." On the other hand, both the HDP Group and Mr. Nihat Akdoğan had a request for a sentence against Mr. Özbakir. However, Mr. Uzbakir has requested a statement to clarify this issue. Now I promise Mr. Uzbakir. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0492par0308	Mr. President, thank you. I was actually going to ask for a word earlier, and you took a break, and I couldn't say it. Let me put it this way: I've been a prosecutor for many years. Unless a certain decision is made regarding the charge made against a person, I am you. I cannot say, nor can I say, because he is innocent until the verdict is final. Now, there was a noise there when I was talking, but I didn't hear the word "HDPli" Honestly, I didn't hear the word "HDP". I just realized from there, are the arrested MPs included in this number? In answer to that number, I said yes. I said yes. Otherwise, I don't mean, I don't blame it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0493par0312	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Uzbakir.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0492par0313	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0494par0357	Now, on behalf of the government, the second speaker is Mr. Lütfi Elvan, Minister of Development. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty-two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0495par0361	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and wish you the best of our budget talks. The Ministry of Development, Turkey's Statistical Institution, GAP, DAP, KOP, DOKAP Regional Development Administrations have made a commitment on the basis of budget talks in 2018. First of all, my Ministry, I'd like to thank the friends who have expressed their views, opinions, and criticism regarding their committed and relevant institutions. I would like to present my views and evaluations on three main axes: First, where is the world going, and as Turkey, I will try to answer the question of how and how we can benefit from it. In this chapter, I will also review the latest macroeconomic developments in our country, our structural reform priorities and our development approach. In the second chapter, I'd like to make a brief assessment of the issues within the ministry's mandate and responsibilities and give you a brief discussion of our regional development perspective. And in the last chapter, we want to take our country where in the long run, what's our vision, and I want to talk about what we're going to do about it. Dear lawmakers, the global economy is now in a new phase. This stage brings both risks and opportunities. In the post-crisis, especially developed countries have introduced unusual measures in money and finance policies. Despite these measures, the world economy did not show any particular recovery until 2017. However, as of 2017, we have seen appearances and expectations change. Along with developing countries, a sense of recovery began to take place in developed countries. The trend of economic recovery towards continuity has also led to review of existing policies. As a matter of fact, central banks, especially the Fed, have also reviewed and passed their current policies, following enlargementary monetary policies so far. As a result, they began implementing their strategy for exiting policies after the crisis. In terms of economic and financial development, this phase differentiates the speed of technological change and transformation from the previous period. Information and communication technologies penetrate every area of production in a much more intense way. Artificial intelligence, the Internet of objects, the rapid technological advances in large data, cloud information, has opened a new chapter in sharing and effectively using information. Thus, traditional production models began to replace a digitally based new approach, and industrial value chains became more important. From all the changes and transformations I've been talking about, it's impossible to think of Turkey separately. Our government is driven by this consciousness. The steps planned for our country's most effective use of the global transformation process are determined. Despite many internal and external negative developments, good lawmakers have shown the opposite positive performance when the world is in recession after the global crisis. See, the numbers are pretty impressive. In 2010-2015, our country grew by 7.4 per cent, and the average growth rate of developing countries is 5.5 per cent, including India and China. Even this solo performance shows that as a country, as a government, we have accomplished our homework. I wish 2016 was a year when we moved the 7.4-percent average up even higher, but, you know, the impact of the treacherous coup attempt prevented us from growing 27 quarters, and we closed the year with 3.2 per cent growth. Don't let that rate get to you. You can be sure that if what we went through had happened in another country, not in another country, growing up would be a very large proportional reduction. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked for this success separately. And our growth performance this year is really stunning. In 2017, our third quarter growth rate was 1.1% of the country's most advanced and developing countries. In this quarter, significant increases in industrial and service sector integration have been recorded. The industrial sector is 14.8 per cent; the service sector has really contributed to our growth by 12.3 per cent. And in terms of spending, I would like to make it very clear that the increase in investments is above private consumption. When we look at the first nine months of development, we see a 7.4 percent growth. Here we see investment, consumption and net exports contribute both positive and balanced to growth. In addition to quantity, the quality of this growth reveals a very healthy picture. At the end of the year, we aim to rise above our OVP target. Indicatives, such as industrial production, especially capital production, capacity use of 80 per cent, and exports, which exceed 10 per cent, confirm that. We expect growth of at least 7 per cent for the entire 2017. For 2018, we programmed a 5.5 per cent growth. I'd like to point out that as long as the world's economic resurgence continues, we can also rise above the middle-term program goal. In recent years, good lawmakers have been monitoring inflation a bit high under the influence of increasing foreign currency dry, food and oil prices. In particular, we've made important decisions about improving and lowering costs from the production stage in the food field to the product's access to the consumer, and we're continuing our additional work. The main source of the upward-direction movement, which has recently been observed in foreign currency courses, is the speculative attack on our country's economy. Hence, there is external pressure that is effective on the courtship. Thus, the recent surge in the wolf will surely balance. During the mid-term programme, we will fight inflation decisively and reduce it to the level we target. In employment, the Turkish economy has the capacity to create a strong employment. Increased growth rate in 2017 also reflects on labour market data. Over 1 million net jobs have been created in the last four periods, according to the same period of the previous year. As a result, the September figures announced today show that this trend continues strongly. As of September, a year-on-year employment was provided to 1,33,000 people from the same period last year. In this direction, our unemployment rate was at 10.6 per cent, with a reduction of 0.7 points from the same period last year. The unemployment insurance and Industrial Production Index data indicate that unemployment figures will continue to decline later. Another important area is the improvement of the current balance, valued lawmakers. Although we have an export performance that exceeds 10 per cent increases and goes to record, our growth performance, the increase in domestic demand, the increase in domestic demand, the increase in international price of commodity, the courtship and parite effect has caused the current deficit to increase a bit this year, but we have taken important measures to lower the current balance further in the midterm, and we continue to take it. The access to more markets with products and services that are high in addition value and quality, providing domestication in many products that we depend on imports, encouraging private sectors in global supply chains, reducing dependence on energy with the use of domestic and renewable energy resources and technologies, facilitating customs and logistical operations, is one of our priorities. Our tourism strategy will be renewed to increase the diversity of countries and species. While Cari's talking about balance, I don't think we should discuss our country's need for foreign financing. Dear friends, by many, Turkey's annual, current external debt, including short-term debt, is about 210 billion dollars, and this figure creates vulnerability because it corresponds to 25 per cent of national income. I don't think the approach is right. First of all, I would like to point out that Turkey's current sum of short-term foreign debt is about 173 billion dollars as of October, but about 96 billion dollars in deposits, revenue-responsible accounts, and at least a little bit of public obligations. 173 billion dollars is 77 billion dollars in loan debt. That amount was 80.6 billion dollars in 2014, 79.2 billion in 2015, 73 billion in last year, some more this year. But I don't see a problem in financing foreign debt, as alleged. Besides, Turkey has never faced such a situation in our time of power. We will never compromise fiscal discipline, one of the most important anchors in the Turkish economy. The treacherous coup attempt we experienced in 2016 and other domestic and external developments that lower our potential for growth required an active attitude in finance policy. In this scope, budget spending was intended in 2017 to be directed to jobs and revenue-making areas, to contribute to growth in the medium term and to support economic stability. In other words, when our financial space was needed, we used it as needed, and we saw the positive results together. Turkey is in a better position than many developed and developing countries in terms of budget balance and public debt supply rates. There was a particular mention of the fragile five here today, particularly the highly valued MPs, who stated that Turkey was in the fragile five. But I want to point out that this is the result of a completely biased approach, and I want to give you a few examples. Argentina and Brazil, for example, out of the fragile five. See, in five indicators, we are much better than Argentina and Brazil, but in just one indicator, although we are worse than Argentina and Brazil, these countries are not included in the fragile five, but Turkey is included in the fragile five. An example? See, in Argentina the national rate of public debt is 53.4; in Brazil 83.4; in Turkey 28 per cent. The budget deficit is minus 6.6% in Argentina; Brazil is minus 9.2; Turkey is only 2 valued MPs. Cari's out in the open better than us, I'll tell you that. Inflation is about 26.9% in Argentina and roughly 11 in Turkey. Let's look at GDP growth: 2.5 in Argentina; 0.7 in Brazil; 7 in Turkey. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Look, the five key indicators we've received are better at 4 ▪ Turkey is better but Turkey is kept among the fragile countries. I'd like to express that in particular. When we look at investments, very valuable lawmakers, we see that investments have increased fourfold in the last 15 years. In 2002 -- in public and private investments -- there was an investment of 242 billion dollars at 2017 prices -- and in 2017 there was an investment of 929 billion dollars, about 4 times that. Next year, hopefully, we'll cross a trillion liras together as public and private. Dear lawmakers should not be forgotten that strong and sustainable growth is not accessible unless supported by structural reforms. Our structural policies are a very important complement and dragger of our macropolitics. Yes, the only thing that caught everyone's attention when we announced our medium-term program was macrosized. I regret to inform you that the media has not settled enough on the structural reform agenda, particularly the media. Some basic economic assumptions, particularly the exchange rate, have been ignored by the original spirit and content of the program. On this occasion, I would like to address some of the issues that are actually very brief in our medium-term program. The inevitability of our growth and stability is the most important component of macroeconomic stability, efficient and inclusive growth -- the five capital, the labor force -- and, of course, the areas where we're going to concentrate -- and the high-velocity value of production for the sustainability of growth, the improved business and investment environment for the development of quality investments, and the strengthening of corporate quality and service in public. Our policies in the field of human capital are intended to enable the labour market as a result of increasing the level of education and quality. In this context, we bring measures in the areas of adapting to digital transformation and technological change, the integration of skills between work and labor, the increased employment of private policy-seeking groups and the reduction of off-the-book employment. We also have the pride of keeping our promise to our fellow workers, who have thus worked as subcontractors. I wish this arrangement to be good for our fellow workers and their families.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0496par0384	The subcontractor isn't getting up, his name is changing. City companies are subcontractors, right?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0495par0385	Again, another area that we're focusing on in our medium-term program is high-intensity production. If we want to increase our exports and our production more and more value, we have to concentrate on the dense areas of technology. At this point, hopefully, during the mid-term programme, we'll focus a lot more on areas with particularly high concentration value, and we'll increase our support for these areas. If it is intended to improve institutional quality in public, we will give special attention to public relations, public relations with NGOs, public relations with citizens. In public relations with the public, it is also one of our priorities to shorten business processes, to meet the demands of the private sector in a short period of time, and to increase citizen satisfaction. Precious lawmakers, it is clear that the primary and necessary requirement for development is macroeconomic stability. It's an important leverage for development, but we don't see high growth as the only determinant of development. In this context, we address development with a much more comprehensive and broader perspective, and we make the ultimate effort to meet the requirements of sustainable development. We take decisive steps to improve the quality of life for each of our citizens, to ensure that they can look to the future safely, and to improve the distribution of income. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me in this part of my speech -- our time is short -- I'd like to briefly mention the area of regional development. You know, we have two important institutions that are making an effort to reduce the difference between regional and regional development, one of which is that we have two important management structures: our regional development administrations, DAP, GAP, KOP...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0497par0391	Mr. Secretary, I'll take two minutes of Mr. Gül's time and give it to you. When Mr. Rose speaks, God is great.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0495par0393	Let's do this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0497par0394	Here, I'll give you two minutes. God is great for him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0495par0395	At least you're giving each of our friends an extension.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0497par0396	Okay, then use it first. Here you go, two minutes. Then I'll take it from Mr. Gül and give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0399	So here's the thing, very briefly, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to move on to the final part of my speech. You know, we've started working on the 11th Development Plan. At the moment, about 3,500 people are involved in the work of this plan. Besides, we'll have local and regional meetings. Hopefully, as of June, we are working hard to carry out our 11th Development Plan -- which will be our final plan for the year 2023 -- to reach our century. Your contributions are very important, and I want to express this in particular, the contributions of our MPs are important.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0401	When will the Gap be finished, Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0402	With many of our commissions, we will meet again under the 11th Development Plan, and we will establish Turkey's vision for the future together. As for the GAP...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0404	When will the Gap be finished? The Jaffa are waiting for you, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0405	Since you've asked, very briefly, we've earmarked $65 billion in GAP in the last 15 years.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0407	But there's 20 percent of it, 80 percent of it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0408	Please listen to me.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0409	But it's 80 percent.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0410	And 500,000 hectares have been watered. Every year, believe me, compared to the past, we allocate twice as much money as the past.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0411	There's money, no job.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0498par0412	No, it's being done, sir. It's being done.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0413	No, it's 20 percent.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0500par0414	Minister, we're listening. We're listening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0415	It's not 80 percent done.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0501par0416	Look, when our Silvan Dam is completed, 70 percent of the irrigation projects will be completed. When our Ilisu Dam is complete...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0499par0417	It has nothing to do with Ilisu.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0501par0418	Please excuse me. ...in terms of energy investments, we'll be able to complete 90 percent.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0502par0420	When will the express train come to Karaman? The Karamans are waiting.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0503par0421	Minister, we thank you for all your contributions to Erzurum, and to East Anatolia.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0501par0423	No, thank you. So we're really investing in our Southeast Anatolian region, and we're going to keep doing it, it's the right of our region. We're doing everything we can to improve the development of that region. He says we'll continue to show it in the future, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0504par0426	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0505par0427	Even Tanal applauded, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0504par0428	Now on behalf of the government, Mr. Abdulhamit Gul, Minister of Justice. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0432	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you to present our ministry's budget for 2018 years, to inform you of our ongoing and planned activities. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. I would like to begin by strongly condemning the unlawful and inhumane practices of our first qiblah of the faithful, Jerusalem, to the Holy Mosque. Despite hundreds of UN rulings, we would like to say once again that we will never give up this fight until Jerusalem, the first of the Muslims, becomes the capital of the independent Palestinian state, in order to avoid a massacre, a massacre, a legal massacre, a massacre with a sense of a bandit state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In fact, for centuries, the whole world has seen that those who want to eliminate the identity of Jerusalem, which is a common sanctuary for every religion -- Muslim and Christian -- for peace, peace, peace, peace -- for every religion -- and that those who want to destroy that identity again will not be able to contribute in any way to the peace of the region, peace of the world. On this occasion, the meeting of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in our country, and the registration of this meeting into the history of the world, has indeed been an important step in the name of world peace and human history. Our intention and our expectation is that all the countries of the world recognize these decisions, accept them. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the most important element of the state of law is the presence of a functioning judicial system. In a state model based on the rule of law, the judiciary is a referee. Its ability to perform this function depends on its objective and fair resolution of any problems. This makes the law a measurable value. Therefore, making our judicial system operational and functioning as a tool for our citizens will continue to be one of our top priorities. The way our governments have followed for the past 15 years is a line of reform that is in line with that priority. The development of the services of justice, the strengthening of access to justice, is also one of the most important decisions and road maps of our government this year, as a constant focus and excitement. Studies that our citizens can benefit from faster, more effective, fairer decisions and judicial processes give positive results in all areas. In the last 15 years, justice services have increased twice as much from the central budget, and our institutions' physical resources and structural transformations have gained speed. With new institutions and examples of good practice as well as the physical face of justice, understanding and quality in the services of justice have risen again. Our topic has been revised by democratisation and a human-oriented approach, and our basic laws have been greatly renewed. The amendments on the constitutional and legal level included measures to strengthen the independence, efficiency and neutrality of the judiciary, while the basic rights and freedoms on one hand are a strong guarantee. As you know, the regulation of the protection of personal data as a right is also the reforms of our governments during the period of the Constitution, which we will briefly consider as one of the most important developments recorded in the process, in which children's rights are again under constitutional protection, the expansion of union freedoms, the opportunity to give public officials collective contracts, the expansion of political freedoms. The institutional capacity of our country has also been developed in order to protect and improve basic rights and freedoms and prevent violations. In accordance with the principle of secondaryity of the European Court of Human Rights, the individual application path to the Constitutional Court, which we have established in our internal law, is also a crucial reform in the period of our governments. Again, Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation is one of several regulations that will be set up as an example of the implementation of Public Rights Agency, the establishment of the Human Rights Agency, and the redevelopment of this agency within our Ministry, which allows democratic control of administrative operations. Again, the Human Rights Compensation Commission, established in 2013, has been among the diversified rights-seeking routes, and has been very important reforms in terms of a transparent and transparent way of giving its own citizen the compensation of a right to control, if there is one right violation in that sense, to a transparent, accountable judiciary and state system. Again, during the time of our governments, the right-seeking ways have always been open. Finally, it is one of the key reforms and regulations that have been demonstrated in this sense by the opening of the judicial control path, and the independent introduction of this Commission against the decisions of the State of Emergency Commission. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important reforms in structural transformation on behalf of the Turkish judicial system is the constitutional amendment on April 16th. With the approval of the Supreme Assembly and the approval of our nation, the amendments to the Constitution on this date have brought two fundamental changes in the judiciary. The first is that the structure of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors is based on more democratic legitimacy, an act of nation's will, and the second is the removal of the civil-military judiciary. Some of our friends have also expressed that the Council of Judges and Prosecutors is being held by the will of the ruling party or the President. There is no way to accept a claim. Look, a very important change has been made that has never happened. In terms of democratic legitimacy, the Supreme Bureau of Judges and Prosecutors' Board of Judges and Prosecutors has been handed over to the selection of elected bodies by the will of the nation. Turkey elects the majority of the Grand National Assembly, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Who chooses the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? People pick. The government is a unconditional nation. It is a crucial change in the sense that its principle will be fulfilled. Look, dear friends, we've called on all parties in the Constitutional studies we've done this work, but we've taken this study with the National Movement Party to the front of our nation.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0507par0446	Let's get the Ministry and the Undersecretary out of there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0447	And how will Turkey choose the Grand National Assembly when we put this study out there?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0507par0448	No, let's get the Ministry and the Undersecretary out of there, then, in the Court of Judges and Prosecutors.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0449	There were many alternatives there, but we chose Turkey with a compromise in the Grand National Assembly based on the election. We chose the way. How?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0508par0450	He's elected by the majority vote.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0451	In the first round, we're going to need 367 votes first to elect a member of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. So, we've envisioned that the majority of the House be elected by the alliance of the two-thirds of it, by compromise. Oh, if that's not possible, shouldn't anyone be elected to the board? Three out of five, if the House has a majority, let's let the Judges and Prosecutors' Board choose its members again. Look, the number of AK PARTY's groups in Parliament isn't 3/5, friends, it's 330. So I'll sit down, I'll pick the Judges' Prosecutors' Board. If he says he can't find 330, he won't. We've always tried to explain this to Turkey, to the world's public in this referendum process, but there are people who still don't understand, who still don't. We'll tell you one more time. If this agreement cannot be reached in parliament, arrangements have been made to ensure that this system is mandatory in order to reach a compromise with the Judges and Prosecutors' Council. So why does it bother a congressman, especially when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey elects a member of the Council of Judges Prosecutors?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0509par0453	Then why are you the president?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0510par0454	Mr. President, would you please warn Tanal?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0455	It has brought to an accountable point where our nation will be most pleased in this sense -- in terms of democratic legitimacy. Our president was already making an election to the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and now it's been arranged that the President elects four people. A president elected by the vote of 50+1% has chosen 4 people as members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0511par0456	It undermines the neutrality, the neutrality.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0457	...why does it bother this nation's decision to name the Judges and Prosecutors' Council, in terms of 50+1, which means that someone elected by more than half of Turkey was chosen by compromise in the entire majority of Turkey?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0512par0458	We're not comfortable with the Attorney General being there, we're not comfortable with the Undersecretary being there, get them out.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0459	So the basic point of this is that if you're uncomfortable with the people elected to Parliament by the will of the nation, the people elected President by the will of the nation, then you're uncomfortable with the people themselves.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0513par0461	The justice we're talking about, the justice we're talking about.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0514par0462	We don't like the politics of justice.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0463	Secondly, when you say "politicisation of the judiciary," you say that on May 27th, the coup trial of our citizens was political. If you want to see a politically-enhanced judgment, you have to oppose the trial after the coup of September 12th, after May 27th.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0515par0464	The fascist right-wingers were in power again, we weren't.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0506par0465	By growing older, I am growing 17 years older than you, so I execute you. Here is the understanding that the judge is not independent.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0515par0467	Again with the fascist coup d'état.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0516par0468	We're uncomfortable with court custody. We don't want court custody.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0517par0469	We don't want him, we don't want him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0470	On February 28th, the judiciary, which took its robes and saluted the epolet, was not an independent judiciary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0516par0472	And now they're sitting hand-to-hand with the palace.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0473	On that Day, those who said "Peace" will not do anything to be judged. Why do you feel uncomfortable when it is said to be a member of the HSK of Turkey today, that a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be elected President by the votes of the nation?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0519par0475	We're not comfortable with the Minister of Justice being there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0476	You're uncomfortable with people, that's why you're against it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0519par0478	We're not comfortable with the Minister of Justice being President there.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0520par0479	We don't want unreliable judgment, we want trusted judgment.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0480	Whether you want to or not, the judiciary in Turkey today is about to enter its usual place, taking very important steps to enter it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0521par0481	I don't like your style, Mr. Secretary, so it doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0482	Look, on May 27th, there was a law against coupgers and coupgers, and there was judgment. On September 12th, there was a judgment, there was law.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0522par0483	We left-handed guys paid the bill on all of them again.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0523par0484	Now that you've got the verdict, now you've got the verdict, Mr. Secretary, what's changed?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0485	On February 28th, there was a law judged by coupgers. After July 15th, there's a law where coupgers are tried, there's a trial.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0523par0487	You set up your own courts, appointed your own judges.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0518par0488	Today the coupgers answer to the independent Turkish judiciary. Apart from the moon star flag, other than the Turkish flag, no one has the right to speak to Turkish judicial members who have not given themselves to anyone but the Constitution, the law and the conscience, who have not given their soul to Pennsylvania for a dollar.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0524par0491	50 million for "yes."
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0525par0492	They were your traveling companions once, you put them in judgment, you brought them in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0524par0493	Nothing less than 50 million saves.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0525par0494	You appointed those judges and judges.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0526par0495	Yeah, why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0527par0496	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0525par0497	You did. You did.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0528par0498	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0529par0499	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0530par0500	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0531par0501	Don't tell stories here.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0532par0502	Yeah, why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0530par0503	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0533par0504	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0534par0505	No, we're not, we're responding very well, and we're not uncomfortable at all, so why are you talking about what we're saying?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0535par0506	Okay, guys, we're moving on. Minister, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0536par0508	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0509	Terrorists who use their robes to hide their allegiance to the countries and terrorist organizations where they belong have been wiped out of the courtroom.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0538par0511	Your government took it, and We did not take it, but your government took it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0539par0512	You brought it, your government brought it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0513	In the coup d'état of 17-25 December, the elected government was left with the ambitions of those who wanted to attempt a coup against the nation, against a democratic regime. Mr. Tanal, some people do it at trial -- because I have a colleague -- in the sense of the peace of the trial...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0540par0515	Bailiff, bailiff.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0516	Let's continue the trial, as colleagues.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0541par0518	We're not judging, Mr. Secretary, we're not judging.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0519	What they failed to achieve by mediating the judgment remained in their enthusiasm for a bloody and treacherous coup attempt on July 15th. That night, the courage of our President's heart set our nation on the streets, on the streets, on the squares, drowned the coup d'états in their own misery. Our nation has stopped its leader, its country, its destiny, its law, its democracy, and its republic, by shielding its vicious flow, the slave attempts of traitors. On that night, our Assembly was once again named after the Magazi. I hereby remember all the heroes of the land who were martyrs that night, and wish our veterans a long life, better than God. Our highly valued MPs, all national and domestic elements, our patriotic soldiers, our heroic police, and, of course, our brave members of the judiciary, have had a great deal to do with the repelling of this bloody attempt. On the night of July 15th, our fast-moving judges and prosecutors bravely seized the case and launched investigations. On that night, the Turkish judiciary, along with our citizens who were shielding the tanks, the F16s with their bodies, began to hold democratic watch in the courthouse corridors, and Turkish judiciary members and court officials are still on democratic watch. This seizure will end with the ongoing trials coming to a fair, legal, and just conclusion that the public will find the punishment that the guilty deserve in a way that will ease their conscience. These cases across the country are moving rapidly towards a final verdict, and the part of the bloody conspiracy on July 15th is basically a key point in the world for Turkey to be the state of law in accordance with the laws and the constitutional order that members of the terrorist organization have broken and are trying to eliminate. Our courts never work like a prison vending machine. He separates the innocent from the guilty by judging by the facts and the evidence. Of course, some defendants who know what they're doing best and predict the consequences are doing their best to dilute these cases, prolong the trials, and poison the legal process. But our nation must be respected. History will never, ever forgive those who say, "July 15th is a theatre with those who play theatre in the courts. " [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When the trials are completed, all criminals will receive the punishment they deserve, and those who speak, laugh, argue, and mock at the hearings today will be silenced forever, and no one will ever dare strike this holy nation. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude once again on behalf of our nation in this Veteran Assembly, on behalf of our Ministry, to our fellow judges, who have devoted their duty to sacrifice and courage. Mr. President, most countries are constantly updating the legal and justice system to respond to increasing and diversified social needs. It's always a quest to eliminate the workload of courts that have become a common problem around the world, to expose a system of justice that works faster. The EC PARTY is a reformist party, a stronger legal system, stronger democracy, wider freedoms are the components of this identity. By maintaining the balance of freedom-safety, we continue our walk as a fundamental framework that sustains the state and public order, these freedoms. The reforms of the last 15 years have been raised on the purpose of strengthening our democratic institutions, expanding the space of freedom, protecting human rights and praising. Again, we will continue our reform line with the same understanding, and we will increase the quality of justice services. We continue our efforts to present a century-old justice system of our Republic to the service of our nation. In this context, our new visionary documents plan to implement these moves in our strategic documents. In the coming process, we will share with the public the confidence in the judiciary and the efficiency of the judiciary, the reform package that will increase its speed. In this reform package, we will be able to regulate many issues that have come into society's agenda. That way, we can open ways for our citizens to access to justice faster, and we can make significant improvements in order to reduce the workload of the judiciary and speed it up. In this framework, we're going to develop legal protection insurance, expand the electronic notification, save time and expense, create a new follow-up process to collect the debt quickly and for free of charge, without reducing our citizens' path to the executive office in small areas. In doing so, we will maintain the delicate balance between the debtor and the debtor, based on the benefit of the debtor and the debtor. Again, by providing information integration, integration with all public institutions, we will also end a series of inequity practices in the judiciary. We'll also give a scalpel to a problem that turns into gangrene between divorced wives. In the first place, we're going to make the child's delivery more humane, looking for the child's benefit. In addition, we will have a more effective fight against organised crime, crimes and crimes that disturb the peace of society, our nation. We will review a number of verbs that constitute a crime in the sense of interfering with the lifestyle, in terms of verbs that will interfere with the lifestyle of no other citizen in this regard. The faster and more effective completion of investigations in the fight against crime and criminals is also an arrangement among the work headlines in this period. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, in our legislation, the social goal of justice, including this metaphor, has given our governments the legal world the key alternative solutions in the sense that we are able to resolve conflicts in society as quickly as possible. In this framework, a quick, economic, secret, and voluntary solution in legal conflicts with the Arbitration Law has been introduced into the Turkish judicial system. In this framework, the 7.539 mediator serves. As of December 11th, a total of 24,162 inconsistencies have been implemented, with an agreement reached at 21.405 of them, which is about 90 percent. Again, finally, from January 1st, along with the Law on Business Courts, an arrangement in our legal system for mandatory intermediaries in business cases has passed through our Parliament, as you know, in order for our citizens to get what they deserve before the sweat is dry. Justice is primarily about giving what it deserves, and we believe that these efforts to give without delay, without delay, will be very important to our citizens, and will be given as a key public in terms of reforms and services that our governments have given to our nation. Again, we will continue to encourage these alternative methods. Again, the disputes between the administration and the citizens and the administration raise the workload of the courts. In this framework, it is also important that, again, by making KHK No. 659 more active, we continue our work in this regard, without resorting to trial or follow-up, by reviewing the management of the administration and the citizens' conflicts with the administration in some way, by reducing the workload of the courts. Again, as you know, our highly valued lawmakers have taken important steps in the criminal justice process, thanks to our governments, and as of December 1st, 523, 000 cases were submitted to the brokers, which resulted in a compromise of 200,711. So what does that mean? 200,000 cases are a crucial result in reducing the workload of courts before they come to prosecutors and criminal courts.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0542par0532	But they're sending it all away, and there's an unfair fee for $300 on those compromises.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0533	We'll try to maintain this frame by increasing it. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've also developed measures to prevent the use of the criminal justice system without purpose and keeping it occupied. A pre-investigation mechanism for abstract reports and complaints has been set up in this framework, with an arrangement made in the recent KHK. We've given our citizens the right not to be tainted by this arrangement, so if there are general, abstract, and baseless claims about a person, the prosecutor will be able to decide whether or not to open an investigation after his investigation. This is a very important provision for our citizens in terms of human rights, which was the latest arrangement in the KHK. This will help: A person has done something wrong for this reason or for this reason, and he has committed a crime. When he makes an unjust accusation, he immediately opens a case for the public prosecutor, makes a suspect and maintains the necessary law enforcement services, but when he sees that he is abstract, general, baseless -- and then every time someone complains, the police will not come to his door, at his place, and he will not investigate him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0543par0536	They're suing me for every complaint.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0544par0537	What will you do with reasonable doubt? You have brought something called reasonable doubt.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0538	In this regard, the other departments will also be excluded from the record, and there will be no evidence or reports used in any way. This is a very important arrangement. Again, our Victim's Rights Law is one of the other issues we work on as a very important arrangement. We also have important work on the Notary Law, the Turkish Academy of Justice, and the HMK. We're going to increase our work, our barrooms, all the reforms, all the improvements that we've done with civil society organizations, in terms of improving the practice of law, making the profession of law more important and essential.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0544par0540	Young lawyers have problems, Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0545par0541	Will you give the lawyers a green passport?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0542	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my time is running out. In a nutshell, I'd like to make my point briefly. As you have information that will take effect on January 1st, 2018, and especially in the judiciary, a crucial reform in terms of resolving some issues stemming from the expert system will be in the service of our citizens in the coming period. We will continue by increasing all efforts in the matter of trial and fair trial in a reasonable time.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0546par0544	There's a problem with forensic aid apps.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0545	Again, the judge, who was 9.349 in 2002, increased the number of prosecutors by 73 per cent, and as of today we have 16,106 judges and prosecutors. This increase will continue in line with the workload again. In 2002, when our staff were 51,638, who were involved in the courts and in the execution institutions, we reached 115,638, and, as you know, in the last KHK, we gave our staff the extension of actual service in our execution institutions. I'm sending my regards, my regards, my compliments, my conversations, to all of our court officials, and to all of our court officials, who worked hard after July 15th, especially these coup trials. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Besides, dear friends, not only are these employees, but all of our court staff are dear and devoted friends of ours. We're doing the necessary work with our Finance Ministry on our bailiffs, and we're still working on getting him into general administration services. And when our government has received the necessary results in this matter, I hope we too wish to give this good news. The lawyers and our citizens know that the bailiffs are the greatest, most solid, most thorough of the court's labor. And the bailiffs who have taken the dust of the files, the burden of the lawyers, the nastiness, the full weight of the pen, and the value that they truly deserve, hopefully, with the services they've been given so far, in this matter, our clerks, our executive clerks, are always with them, and we're always trying to sustain and support them in terms of education.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0547par0550	The clerks are inadequate, Minister. Four clerks are supposed to fall on each judge, and two clerks are falling.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0551	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, a dimension of change in the judiciary that cannot be neglected is the strengthening of physical capacity. In fact, from the courthouses below the stairs, even our friends who practice law, know that the court has run out of paper. From the courts, where lawyers are called by hand, where they have given their papers, where they have taken their machines, they've come to a really important physical point today.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0547par0552	How many pieces has the Ankara Courthouse been divided into, Minister? Ankara Courthouse is a mess.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0548par0553	There are four courthouses in Ankara.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0554	Thanks to our governments, the construction of a total of 232 justice service buildings from 2003 has been completed and has reached a closed area of 3,800,000 square metres. Our goal is to maintain these services by increasing them to 6 million square metres. I can only mention the IYAP in one sentence. We also have vital efforts to further integrate the IYAP, which is a vital service, and to speed up the trials and eliminate some of the victims. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have focused on today's goal of preventing and reintegrating the special attention of criminal law. In this regard, there are really important regulations in terms of the penal system. In this regard, we will try to continue our ministry.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0549par0558	How much is this mandatory defense fee going to be, Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0550par0559	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0537par0560	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we will continue to continue our efforts to present to our citizens, 80 million citizens, a budget that we have prepared to end my words with the goal of raising their justice services to the highest degree, without subjecting them to any privileges or discrimination, like the equal teeth of a comb, and with the services of justice as first-class citizens of 80 million. I hereby present our Ministry's budget for 2018 to our General Assembly's appreciation. While we wish our budget of 2018 to be good for our state, our nation, our entire judicial organization, I would like to thank our President, our Prime Minister, our government, for their support. I salute the Honorable President and members of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0551par0565	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0552par0567	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to respond to the fact that Mr. President has appointed four people to the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Why does this bother you?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0551par0568	Okay, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0552par0573	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would really like to ask my fellow members of the ruling party to know that while we're carrying out some opposition, we're not just saying anything to oppose you. The elected President and lawmakers will then go to the elections together. After the President is elected, he will appoint four members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors; the Minister is a natural member, 5; there was no undersecretary; there was no undersecretary; there was also an undersecretary, 6. In that case, members of the ruling party will be elected, along with the President, to identify seven people. Now, they can either be from the AKP government or they can be MPs from the CHP or other opposition party. For Turkey to be run fairly, judges and prosecutors must form an independent panel of judges and prosecutors with their own choice. That is a barrier over it. That's why we object.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0553par0575	We're past that, aren't we?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0552par0576	I'm answering. This is the bench, you can come back later. Friends, I'm speaking to the Minister here -- how they're laundering themselves so much, I'm amazed at him -- isn't it the support of this judicial system that keeps innocent people in the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases, by standing behind Zechariah's self? Wasn't it your judicial system? Mustafa Balbay lives there, you kept him in solitary for five years. Is this the law of innocence? I'm asking now: Were the judges and prosecutors you sent to Habur Border Gate not the judges and prosecutors of the Republic of Turkey? (HPP) You made the PKK terrorist organization insult them and have them enter Turkey, killing dozens of our children. You have dictated your own decisions by changing the judges and prosecutors of decisions made in courts you don't like. Is this your justice?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0554par0579	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0555par0580	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0554par0581	Mr. Turan, I'll listen to you for a second. Mr. Durmaz, I think he wants to make a statement about an incident that's happening in Tokat, and I promise you according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0556par0586	Thank you. Mr. President, we have received a sad report that, at the age of 2, Berkay Hussein, Berilsu, Berilsu, Aleyna lost their lives in a painfully young age because the house was wooded in a fire at noon in the village of Büyükyurt in the district of Tokat Province, Niksar. To these young cubs who have lost their lives, we offer mercy from the Father of God, and our condolences to the family of the Hawk. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0557par0589	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. We also express our sorrows for what has happened, and we pray for God's mercy upon our children who have lost their lives, and for the head of the family of the Hawk.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0558par0593	God rest his soul. Let's answer the question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0557par0595	There's one more person to talk to, Mr. Turan. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account Against him, it's his turn on behalf of Nüğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0559par0643	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're talking about this year's budget in a very, very special time period, very different from the time we left behind. A third of the judges and prosecutors in this country were discharged from their jobs, and a quarter were imprisoned, and a large part of them are still in prison. Only 15 per cent of those accused of being a member of the Party have been accepted into the profession before 2002. All of the others are judges and prosecutors who have taken office in the Justice and Development Party. We're hoping the people responsible for the crisis will get us out of the crisis. Imagine that 25 per cent of the judges and prosecutors who were accepted into the profession after December 17th and 25th, even the Justice and Development Party adopted a legislature, are now being tried for being a member of the Party of Justice and Development. Honourable lawmakers continue in the exact opposite direction of the attitude expected to be accepted by the Ministry after July 15th. In the process, the Justice and Development Party government must have understood the merit most. It should be thought that the desire to create allies by choosing loyalty over merit should produce new problems. The ministry presents examples of partisanism, which have not only been seen in the profession, but also for judges and prosecutors involved in the profession. When you think the Ministry is the Ministry of Justice, it's impossible to describe what happened as a natural extension of politics. Don't forget that all the plots in our country have been carried out recently by the judiciary. The 2010 referendum would not have been July 15th if it had not been said yes to the regulation of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Dear lawmakers, the new Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board decree states that the pressure on judges and prosecutors has been transformed into a factor that affects the accounting of conscience in the files. An endless alternative to democracy has turned into a regime, and the State of Emergency is the salt of an inmate trial. Long imprisonments have peaked with the State of Emergency. Members of parliament, the Constitutional Court does not hold the constitutional audit of the provisions issued under the State of Emergency to question the state of law. We have said that we know what I know, that there is no judicial control in the laws issued by the government. In addition, decrees are issued in the law, which has nothing to do with the declaration of the State of Emergency. There is not an organ that supervises law enforcement, but more importantly, the execution, which sees law as a shackles, is far away from the principles of the universal acceptance of law within this freedom. People who have nothing to do with terrorism have been suspended from public service and suffered a wide range of victims. Lawmakers no longer speak of what they call the right to access to justice, which is accepted around the world as a sign of modernity. The victim will apply to the State of Emergency Review Commission, which has been coerced by the Venice Commission, and the 7-member council will decide on 11,000 applications, which will only open the judiciary. This process has been inconclusive for months. In addition, defences and lawyers are at the top of the most affected by the process in our country. Since you're a lawyer, Mr. Secretary, there are questions the lawyers want me to ask you, especially in the big cities, doesn't it bother you as a lawyer that you pass through an x-ray device and a sensitive door at the courthouse where lawyers get their I.D.'d? Do you know of an incident at the courthouse that was brought up by a lawyer that you've been treating the lawyers with? Lawyers, according to the Law of Law, are they not the founding factor of the judiciary? According to Article 5 of the Turkish Penal Code, isn't he the one who serves as a judge? So what's the difference between a judge and a prosecutor, they're being searched? How can you, as a lawyer, stand by and watch? How will you discredit the lawyer and ensure judicial independence, Mr. Secretary? I'd also like to request that the arrangements you just made regarding the rights of the court staff be made immediately. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0560par0653	Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0559par0654	Congressmans, justice is too important to be left to this Justice Department. So as the Republican People's Party, we will continue to create a sense of justice. We will not stop saying right, law, justice, and fighting for justice. Our arrested MP, Enis Berberoglu, wishes the executives and journalists of the Cumhuriyet daily to have their freedom as soon as possible, and says to everyone, "Hak, law, justice, justice," I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0560par0656	Thank you, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0561par0657	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0560par0658	You have a request for a word?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0561par0659	I have a brief request.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0560par0660	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0561par0663	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have now heard Mr. Minister of Justice's speech. You know, I don't want to do anything about it, not to interfere with it, but our deputies had asked questions, and they probably won't be coming in now. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice, if possible, to answer these questions in his own assessment. In fact, I have questions: For example, you mentioned the coup, but why his political foot is still not on trial is still the subject of curiosity in Turkey. Our budget has increased. You said that, but they have not brought Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş to trial on the grounds of judicial costs.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0562par0666	He's just in the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0563par0667	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0561par0668	Mr. Celal Doğan says that he must be part of the new budget. Other than that, really, why isn't he on trial? Why can't we have enough interviews? And now, about this matter of leave, for example, if you think of it as a lawyer for justice, shouldn't it be lifted? Have you sent a letter saying, "Don't take Mr. Demirtaş to court." That's a question of curiosity. You know, it'll probably be a lot more comforting if we hear that statement out of your mouth. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0564par0671	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 T) TURKEY ISTITISTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account E) PRODUCTION OF ACTIONS AND AGENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 20 minutes. Ten minutes of these 20 minutes belong to the MPs, and the remaining ten minutes belong to the ministers. Now, let's start with Mr. Durmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0565par0718	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. The city's private administration in non-city cities collects the garbage from the villages and leaves the dumpsters in the villages, but when we look at Asia Minor and the provinces around us, it's not like there's enough dumpsters in the villages, and it's not like the garbage cans were taken regularly. When you look at the beautiful streams of those villages, the village entrances, you can't see anything from the piles of garbage. If there is no regulation that will make this legally mandatory, it must be removed immediately. I'd like to learn about the work of your Ministry in order to leave a good environment for the next generation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0566par0721	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0567par0722	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Minister of Environment. Our country's underground waters -- global warming -- are being seriously drawn. In this context, do you plan to make a legal arrangement as the Ministry to consider roof rainwater in cities, especially on sites, collecting warehouses as wastewater? Air pollution in the cities has begun to grow again. One of the main reasons for this is coal, which is disseminated in quality. Does your ministry have control over the quality of coals to prevent that? Which of our cities are now at risk of air pollution? Mr. Secretary, you're also making general assessments of Istanbul regarding the earthquake. Our country is in an earthquake belt. In this context, how many of the dwellings have been examined across the country? In how many cities, how many public institutions and organizations have been transformed into earthquakes? AFAD still doesn't have a building in some provinces. Is it possible for AFAD to build earthquake-resistant buildings? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0568par0727	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0569par0728	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Justice, Semih and Nuriya are on their second day of hunger strike. He was acquitted of his trial, and Nuriya was sentenced, but it was not final. You've already made a call to the State of Emergency Commission to consider their case as a priority because there's a right to live. Again, we invite you to page us on this matter. On the other hand, our colleagues from Ankara are complaining about this mess, the disorganization of the courts, are you going to wrap this up, do you have a plan for this? You said you've been working on the general administrative services class regarding our colleagues, could you give us a date for that? And I'm actually going to make a request. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to request that more careful work be done on the Justice Academy, because a panel is being held for the candidates of the Supreme Court, the judges, the prosecutors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Melih Gökçek, the speaker, it's July 15th, so it doesn't suit him.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0570par0734	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0571par0735	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to our Minister of Justice. Minister, after the July 15 coup attempt, there are still men in prison who were arrested. In this case, judges, prosecutors may hesitate to release those who do not use weapons. So let's bring this up in the Council of Ministers... here are our three ministers, these men -- there are ten, fifteen days of recruits, there are non-graduates, there are elementary school graduates -- let's end this drama now, and let's give the families of these people a good news as they enter the new year. Tell the judges, the prosecutors. The parents want the non-guns evacuated. In a similar way, there are sergeant school students who are still under arrest, who are still in prison. We're expecting support from all three of our ministers. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0572par0739	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0573par0740	My first question is to the Minister of Environment. As part of the North Marmara Highway Project, the cost of publicisation is still not paid, and when will these costs be paid? In our districts of Gebze and Çayırova, although there are several districts of Hurriyet and Yavuz Selim, especially in the neighborhoods, and your municipalities have promised a deed, the promises have not been made. In Izmit, we also want urban transformations in our Cedit neighborhood, but in these neighborhoods, we get the story of the runt. The citizen is being persecuted. Are you going to stop the ranta around here? Will there be deeds? How much do you inspect your municipalities? My second question is to the Attorney General. As a lawyer, will you arrange the problems of our young colleagues' professional injury and mandatory self-defense and legal aid? Will the judge be given a green passport to lawyers who have been denied the basis of the trial? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0574par0744	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0575par0745	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Attorney General. About 25 percent of the disabled living in our country own a vehicle. The cost of cars for people with cars is between 40,000 and 60,000 Turkish liras. Of course, we have some disabled people who can afford $200,000, but that's about 5%. A significant portion of our disabled are living on state support, and our disableds, who are able to afford a vehicle, prefer small motors, low fuel spending. The scale of the economic crisis is obvious. We have a large number of debtors who are disabled. The debt of a disabled citizen who cannot pay 700 lira phone debt has increased to 7,000 to 8,000 liras with interest. This disabled citizen of ours, who can't pay, has a restraining order. Will you have a measure or an arrangement at the point of the foreclosure, but not the seizure of our disabled citizen's arm, leg, vehicle? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0576par0748	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0577par0749	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for Mr. Minister of Environment. How much is the amount of agricultural land that was opened during your administration with zoning plans? Again, 68 percent of Mudla is forest. Again, there is a considerable number of shores of Mudlah, and there is a great deal of land in which we are subject to the Law of the Coast. Of course, we have areas in the area of status, historical status, responsibility. And when the Earth Protection Act comes in, the area where you can build a city is 5%. Since many institutions are in charge, as we have noted above, it is very difficult to maintain zoning integrity in Muğla. The most important problem is that a citizen in the country builds a home for his family in areas that turn from village to neighborhood. Do you have any work on narrowing down the sites, and when will that be?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0578par0753	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0579par0754	Thank you, Mr. President. Since October 29, 2016, how many public workers have been unable to be appointed because the security investigation has not been completed? What is the distribution of this number according to ministries and provinces? Again, how many public workers have not been appointed since the same date because the security investigation was negative, and what is the distribution of this issue according to the ministries? My third question is: For what legal reason is detailed information not given to public workers whose security investigation has failed? My fourth question: why have public workers' rights-seeking routes been blocked when the security investigation went negative? Fifth: Do you have a study, if you have, to address the material, spiritual victimization of public workers, whose security investigation has resulted in more than a legal period of time? The sixth is that there are serious allegations that a security investigation has occurred, such as tagging, coding, tipping, pleasure, and so on. What is the truth of these allegations?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0580par0760	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0581par0761	Mr. President, my first question is to Mr. Minister of Environment. In particular, asbestos fibers produced by urban transformation pose a deadly threat to public health. Asbestos, which was banned from use in Turkey in 2011, can result in a massive cancer disaster by the destruction of old buildings. What measures are you taking regarding this matter, which is vital to public health? Second question, Mr. Attorney General. Turkey is often sentenced to pay compensation by the European Court of Human Rights. Between 2004-2016, Turkey was sentenced to pay 258m euros in compensation. My question is: How many applications have been made from Turkey to the European Court of Human Rights in 2017 under the State of Emergency, and how much compensation are you prepared to pay in 2018? What clauses of the European Convention on Human Rights are Turkey sentenced to compensation for violating most of the Articles of the European Convention on Human Rights? And my final question is that in our country, staff in criminal execution agencies serve under difficult circumstances...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0582par0768	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0583par0769	Mr. President, my question is to Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism. It's budget talks that are being watched on TV right now. The mayor of Karaburun, Mr. Ahmet Çakır and the village of Ambarseki, are thanking Mr. Secretary for his interest and sensitivity in the fish farm in Ambarseki. Again, another thank you: the quarry in the village of Urla Gülbahçe has been halted due to the sensitivity of our Minister and our concerned friends. Therefore, residents of the village of Urla Gülbahce and students of the Institute of Higher Technology thank you. Mr. Secretary, I had to go to Istanbul yesterday because of a funeral. I flew down to Sabiha Gökçen, where we drove to the mosque at the Paperhouse, and buried our funeral. I saw those huge buildings on the right and left of the road, those disgusting buildings. After the paperhouse, I went to Ataturk Airport to return. On my way to Ataturk Airport, I saw these huge buildings on the right and left in Istanbul. Please, I wish your sensitivity to the environment to continue. Thank you, and good luck.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0584par0774	Thank you, lawmakers. Mr. Secretary, it's your turn. Mr. Özhaseki, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0585par0777	Sir, I'll try to answer our friends' questions one at a time. First, what Ancient Bey asks is the gathering of garbage in the villages. In this regard, the gathering of garbage in non-city areas stands before us as a duty to state private administrations. When they ask us for a dumpster, we have a collection of fines in the Environmental Management Unit, and we continue to distribute them as dumpsters. If the Tokat County Special Authority asks us for any help in this matter, let's file a petition, keep giving them dumpsters. There's nothing wrong with the dumpster. Second, Omar Bey had a question about the use of roof water. It's called gri water. In particular, our friends prepare regulations on how to collect and how to use these waters. One of the essentials in the concept of smart cities and smart neighborhoods is that it has a structure that can generate its own energy, and on the one hand, it's a project that is intended to collect as much water as it has rained there, to be used as a use water after it's purified. Our friends have been working on it for a long time, but they're also drafting the code, so we'll get it out soon. Another thing is about air pollution. We are now measuring air pollution at exactly 263 locations as the Ministry. We do short, medium, long-term projects where we see danger. So the governorships in the city, as a result of our work on the municipalities, give them specific plans of action that fit that city, and we tell them what to do. We continue with a commission of how to get rid of this pollution, including our environmental county department. But right now, praise be to God, there's no place that has reached the red spot. If there's a spot at the red spot, we're going to bring them back into action by saying that the first measure is that the Ministry of Energy takes the gas with it. Turkey's average average has improved by about 20 per cent over the past three years. Our friends, bureaucrats, continue their work on the capture of EU norms in 2019. I hope we can do that, too, because we're getting results from our annual work, and it's getting lower and lower. We've drawn up new laws at the point of urban transformation. When Congress, hopefully, enters the proper working environment, I'll try to bring you here one by one to explain the basic, basic principles of urban transformation laws that I've just tried to explain on the stand, and the things that should be there. There are many flaws and flaws in the applications that have been made so far. Rest assured, if I explain now, everyone here will say, "You're telling the truth." But it's also the A-party, and it's the B-party, and it's the C-party. We need to learn from these mistakes and move on. I mean, I don't think it's an urban transformation to do business where it stands by increasing density. It's half a contractor, half a citizen, not an urban transformation. It's never the right thing to take the citizen out of his position, where he is, and where he emptys it, to sell it to the big business centers. We've written down the basics of all of this. And when I do, I'm guessing it's kind of a unanimous issue for our friends here. When he left 2012, in 52 cities, we declared 209 risky areas at the request of municipalities, 639 independent units. Not as a risky structure, not as an area, but as a single building based on 524,000 independent units have applied to us. 400,000 of these 524,000 independent units have been destroyed, but the success rate is 11 to 12 percent in risky areas. So what's true is that the urban transformation in some of the areas of the field is not fully implemented in Turkey. So, here's what it's all about, making the law, giving incentives, encouraging the citizen to do this, making a field-based transformation. When we do a field-based transformation, it's going to be a neighborhood concept, and it's going to be well-placed for social donuts. We don't solve anything, we don't solve its parking lot, we don't solve its green area, we don't put the social donuts. Here, I've prepared all the basic principles that we're going to give up on as the law. Seyit Bey left, and he asked, I shared with Seyit Bey about the work we did when I was Vice President of the Metropolitan City Law. We later handed over the methods we agreed on to the Ministry of the Interior, hopefully, he'll be coming in the next few days. There was one thing that Seyit Bey was explaining on the stand, the independent counties...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0586par0784	Mr. Secretary, half the time is over, but you're moving on.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0585par0785	I, if you'll excuse me, am exercising our Minister of Development's rights.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0586par0786	I don't know. Suit yourself.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0585par0787	There were no questions, since everything Lütfi Bey said was understood, there were no questions, so I'm using him now. Yeah, it's really hard there, especially in independent counties, for the big city to send the police, give the fire services, or give the cemetery services; it's true to leave them to the counties. He's always agreed on those things, hopefully, and I think he'll come too.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0587par0789	The county can't do it, Mayor, he never can. The county can't even do it. Where's it gonna do it?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0585par0790	They serve graveyard services.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0587par0791	With what resources?
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0588par0792	Mr. Secretary, send this draft to the Commissioners and let them see it, so we won't have a fight later.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0587par0793	He'll do it if you give him his source, but he won't be able to name it, not even a chance.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0589par0794	Now, it's being asked how much space is in the agricultural areas that are being built. In fact, we don't have that kind of data, so let's look into it, but at least I'm telling you on my own behalf, where I've been working, in municipalities, or at the moment, there's not a single millimeter of agriculture in the ministry... I don't have such a sin; I'm fighting to keep it from being opened, and I'm doing everything I can to get whoever's bringing it to reject it, so no one has to worry about it. If there's an area open, I'll look into it and let you know, Congressman.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0590par0795	It opens in Silivri, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0589par0796	Our esteemed deputy just gave me the place in Silivri, and I asked for inside information. I take it you're referring to the place where Kiptaş did...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0590par0797	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0589par0798	Here's the information I got from the Metropolitan Municipality, but I didn't check it, and I'm passing on the direct information now: it's been given to you as an urban development area that's been established in the 5,000's and 1,000's. If there's a plan for urban development, the truth is, it's zonable space, but there doesn't seem to be a record of the substructure as an agricultural area. I'll look into it, if it's an agricultural field, it's just, really, let's fight it together. No one has to worry about that.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0590par0799	Let's stop them, Mr. Secretary. They want to build a 12-story building inside the farmland.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0591par0800	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Elvan, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0592par0802	Mr. President, there are no questions, but I'm just going to make a correction for the record. I used the expression "1,"1,1" instead of "1," in terms of that correction... Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0593par0805	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rose, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0594par0807	Thank you. Our work on the Ankara Courthouse continues. As soon as our new Metropolitan Mayor was appointed, we talked about the Ankara Courthouse. In this regard, we are also busy working with our Ankara MPs, our lawyer friends, and our Minister. In this regard, I hope we'll win a court worthy of our capital, where they're all gathered together. With the museum of justice, with the library, in a beautiful, aesthetic way, we hope to win a court worthy of our republic, our capital. On the matter of Nuriya and Semih, on the matter of a call to the State of Emergency Commission... you know, the State of Emergency Commission is an independent commission, but of course, the commission can, of course, appreciate this kind of assessment in public. So we're going to have to make it very clear to the commission that we're going to make it very clear that we're going to have to put this matter forward, immediately, all other files, and we're going to make it clear once again, of course. Mr. Lightning, there are still prisoners among the arrested men, and there are those who don't use guns. He asked a question. According to their statements, they may not be very healthy, but according to their statements, 317 men and men are currently under arrest. Indeed, many of our courts, privates and privates... are the majority of those who have been acquitted... most of them are privates, privates, students. Our courts are very meticulously distinguishing the guilty and the innocent, and a very small number, in general, is the July 15 Bridge, where our martyrs are, where our citizens are martyrs, about those who are present at that time, about other things, about digital data or other evidence. Of course, that's what we're saying in general, based on the results from the courts we're looking at. But, of course, our courts are working very hard on it. Again, let us consider Mr. Erdem's question with our Ministry of the Family about the impounding of our disabled citizens' vehicles. If he has a useful side to our citizens, if there is a situation in which there is no abuse, I will be passing the evaluation on to the Minister of the Family. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0595par0814	Time's up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0594par0815	I'll give the others a written answer.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0595par0816	You can answer in writing. Time's up.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0596par0817	We haven't been able to answer our questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0597par0818	You could add a few minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0596par0819	We haven't been able to answer any of our questions.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0598par0820	Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0599par0821	I'll give it to you in writing.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit08spe0598par0822	Okay, thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-15sit09spe0598par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Now, with the budget in the fourth round in turn, I'm going to have it read separately and vote on the transfer of certain accounts into the chapters. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 27) EARLIER AND GOVERNMENT 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 67,948,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 320,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,180,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 821,976,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 362.79,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 663.890.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 1,922,753,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will take part in the central management account of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 2,627,272,186,00 Budget Expenses 2,179,925,287,12 Cancelled Fund 210,987,047,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 236,359,851,17 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2016. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management budget of 2018, the office of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 27.75) CAPU AND KADASTRO GENIOR PRODUCTION 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 987,043,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 17,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 987.240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Deputies of the central management budget were adopted in 2018. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account for 2016: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 1,094,975,415,92 Budget Expenses 922.665.757.32 The grant goes to 10,082,38 Canceled Fund 71,312,990,66 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 101,006,750,32 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Development will take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 1,749,684,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 861.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 13.831,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,764.378,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Department of Development of the Central Government account of 2016 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,263,139,433,70 Budget Expenses 985.113.843.24 Cancelled Fund 278,025,590,46 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development of the Central Administration of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Statistical Agency shall take part in the central management budget in 2018: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 32.75) TECHNIC ACTIVITY 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 390.736,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.435,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 392,171,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Turkish Statistical Institution. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Statistical Institution shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account for 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 383.160.836.00 Budget Expenses 286,784.662.26 Cancelled Fund 96,376,173,74 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Statistical Agency has been accepted into parts of its fixed account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the president of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 4,387.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,709,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 140,481,200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 146.578,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 145,467,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,110,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 146.578,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Administration account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept it... are accepted. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 85,603,000.00 Budget Expenses 75.122.032.70 Canceled Fund 10.480.967.30 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 85,603,000,00 Collection 78,859,635,58 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the President of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 275,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 157,699.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 157.974,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 155,770,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,203,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 157.974,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2016 Central Administration's final account be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 115,499,873,00 Budget Expenses 97.114.774.85 Cancelled Fund 18,385,098,15 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 108,535,000.00 Collection 120,435,428,45 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's Presidency of 2016 has been adopted into the section of its final account of central management. I would like to submit to your votes that the Chairman of the District Development Administration for 2018 will be transferred to the central management budget for those who accept... those who don't. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 346,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 212,961.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 213.307,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 151,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 212,001000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,155,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 213.307,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration of the Consolidated Plain Project, the division of the central management account of 2016, those in favor... those who don't accept... are accepted. 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 138.165.117.00 Budget Expenses 133,536,501,69 Canceled Fund 4.628.615,31 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 107,356,000.00 Collection 115.035.541.69 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2016 central management account has been adopted as part of its final account. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Chairman of Regional Development Management shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 144.616,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 145.196,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 144,496,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 695,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 145.196,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2016 Central Administration's final account be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 84.319.368.37 Budget Expenses 82,995,730,83 Canceled Fund 1.323.637.54 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 76,300,000.00 Collection 79.246.937.88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman has been accepted as part of the final account of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 will be transferred into the justice department's section: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Justice's Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 1,860.291,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 224,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 11.853,890.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 13.714.405,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2018, the Department of Justice was adopted as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Department of Justice's Central Administration account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.232.908.942.60 Budget Expenses 11:152.575.155.89 Funds Expenses 92,549.09 Canceled Fund 80.426.335.80 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Justice of Justice has been accepted into parts of the central management account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2018, with the Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of the Prisons, those who don't accept... are accepted. 40.41) BUILDING BUILDINGS OF CONTROL WITH PRISON AND EXECUTIONS 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,093,526,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,093,526,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 01 Tax revenues 532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 52,013,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,018,528,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns - 500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,093,526,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departments of the Central Management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons shall be transferred to the chapters of the central administrative account of 2016: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,973,410.000.00 Budget Expenses 2,428.106,257.99 Canceled allowance 545.303.742.01 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 977.979.000.00 Collection 2,856,091,684,77 Ret and Returns 1,317.420,91 Net Collection 2,854,774.263,86 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons were adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Justice shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.10) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Justice Academy 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 22.585,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 22.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 802,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 21,443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 340,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 22.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2018 were adopted by the Turkish Academy of Justice. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Justice shall take part in the central administrative account of 2016: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 22.654,000.00 Budget Expenses 17.533.537.30 Canceled Fund 5.120.462.70 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 21.117,000.00 Collection 15,067,146,23 Rejections and Returns 192.00 Net Collection 15.066.954.23 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Justice Academy has been accepted into parts of its final account of central management in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Board of Judges and Prosecutors shall be transferred to the central management budgets of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 23) THE BUILDING OF ACTIONS AND ACCIDENTS 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 64,966,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 64.966,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been adopted in 2018 as part of the central management budget. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2016 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 55,378,000,00 Budget Expenses 51.839.604,72 Canceled Fund 3.538.395.28 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been approved as part of the final account of central management in 2016. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the fourth round have been accepted; I wish them well. Congressmans, the fourth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (December 16th, 2017) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
