tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Have a good day at work, lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Turkish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Commission is scheduled to pay a visit to Algeria on December 24-27, 2017, at the invitation of the Algerian National Assembly's Foreign Affairs, Co-operation and Migration Commission. The following delegation's visit to Algeria is presented to the General Assembly under Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of Parliament, we are now moving on to the section of Business to Be on the Special Agenda. According to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and the Central Management Law of 2016. We're doing the ninth round today, according to the schedule. The ninth round includes the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Sports General Directorate, Higher Education Loans and Homes Agency, Finance Ministry, Finance Administration Chairman, Public Contraction Agency, Privatisation Administration Chairman, Public Protection, Accounting and Control Standards Association budgets and final accounts. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. As it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must now enter the system. In the ninth round, I read the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on behalf of their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Nevşehir MP Mustafa Ağgöz, Tripoli MP Mr. Salih Cora, Kastamon MP Mr. Metin Çelik, Kayseri MP Mr. Sami Dedeoğlu, Nüğde MP Mr. Erdoğan Özegen, İstanbul MP Abdullah Başcı, Manisa MP Mr. Recai Berber, Army MP Mr. Ergun Taşcı, Kırklareli MP Mr. Selahhattin Minsolmaz and İstanbul MP Aziz Babushcu will speak. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, it is Mr. Saffet Sandzaklı, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu who will speak. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Erdoğan Üç, Hatay MP Hilmi İşıcı, Antalya MP Niyazi Nefi Kara, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoğlu, İzmir MP Kamil Okyay Sindır will speak. İstanbul MP Celal Doğan, İğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı and Van MP Nadir Yıldırım will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. On behalf of the person, Sivas MP Selim Dursun will speak on behalf of İstanbul MP Celal Doğan. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget is 684,402,835,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary management revenues are 10,870,759.000 Turkish dollars in self-indulgence, 78. 630. 932. A total of 89,501,691.000 Turkish liras, including 000 Turkish liras for Treasury. C) (III) is a total of 4,673,105,000 Turkish liras, a total of 4,608,757,000 Turkish dollars, 64,348,000 Turkish liras, and a total of 4,673,105,000 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 16,000,000 Turkish liras. We will now listen to the speakers speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. First, Nevşehir MP Mustafa Begöz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0002par0072	Mr. President, my dear friends of the Court, my dear congressmen, loyal employees of the Veteran Assembly, as the first speaker of today's day, I wish you a good and fruitful work, and I salute our holy nation with respect. As in all areas, the leader of the community and the nation, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, led by the EC PARTI governments, has been introduced to our country for 15 years, more advanced sports facilities than most European countries have been built in the field of sports facilities for a hundred years. We don't have a closed gym, we don't have a county, we don't even have a county. Today, in all our cities, even in our counties, there are more than one green field and many synthetic fields, let alone landfields. Today, in our Nevşehir, seven closed gyms, 15 green fields, 2 synthetic fields, half Olympic swimming pools and many facilities serve young and sports fans. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a call from here: let's play sports and be young. The Minister himself is a really good stoper -- we train with our past parliamentary members and current lawmakers on Tuesday mornings and Thursday mornings at MTA. We stay young, we strengthen our friendship, our friendship, and we collect the trophies in every tournament we enter, and we represent the moon-star jersey as best we can. I expect all my dear congressman friends to go to the gym in the morning. Let's hope we stay healthy, let's stay cheerful.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0003par0076	We got the final championship.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0002par0077	Yes, we won our last championship in Antalya. I'm waiting for all of you, hopefully Tuesday and Thursday mornings, to the MTA. Let's hope we stay young and dynamic. Again, of course, I'd like to make a call from here, Mr. President, valued lawmakers; you know, in the world, with its unique, natural beauty, with its balloons, with its fabrics, with its peribacas, with its natural boutique hotels, with its capadocia, in our Nevşehir, with its Super First League teams and league teams camping, making summer camp. Why Nevşehir? Why Cappadocia? Because it contains the most natural, most appropriate conditions for athlete's health in the air as well as training between natural beauty and altitude. Again, our Cappadocia, you know, is really ready for this infrastructure with their hotels, their facilities. I invite all the league teams, our Göztepe, our Adana, our Malatya, our Antalya, hopefully, to do summer camps in Cappadocia, Nevşehir. I would also like to invite all our fellow deputies and dear people to our Cappadocia again. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are working day and night under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to raise the greatest believer in history, regardless of the writhe of giants, the struggle of dwarves. He is such a faithful giant, who says to the oppressor, "Stop," who holds the oppressed by the hand of his hand, who brings peace, peace, peace, and peace where he goes, who stands firm like an elf in this twisted, corrupt scheme. For fifteen years, the loud voice of the oppressed all over the world stood up to the hope of the community, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who continued to defend the victims without fear, without weariness, without fatigue. We can't be deaf, dumb, insensitive to these atrocities, we can't be indifferent. As the nation's leader voiced his right call on each platform, the generation of Asim will continue to set the best example by living and living their native and national values. Our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the one who showed the world that Jerusalem was not an orphan. Jerusalem, dominated by the Ottoman State in 1516, remained a city of peace, peace, peace until the end of 1917. Jerusalem, the sacred city of the three religions, is being transformed into a city known as terrorism, while it is a city that is respected. But let it not be forgotten that Turkey has not spoken its final words, and that no one should attempt to test our patience and strength. We will continue to be defenders of peace with our native and national strength, the enemy of the tyrant, the patron of the oppressed. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, salute all Muslim brothers and sisters who live far from their homes. On July 15, 2016, I ask God's mercy to all of our martyrs who wrote the myth of a national democracy, who died, who died, who died, who ran to our homeland without blinking, who didn't bring down the scoundrels, who defended their bodies, who stopped their immoral doom, who drank the testimony for the sake of the holy and the land.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0004par0084	Let's give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0002par0085	We're almost there, Mr. President. We won't need a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0004par0086	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0002par0087	I want to thank the peace ambassadors and the oppressed on behalf of my own and on behalf of the international public, who have made efforts to end the invasion of the terror state Israel in Palestine, regardless of religion, language, nation. I hereby salute Jerusalem in the blessed land. I salute you with respect, love, conversation. I wish our 2018 budget to be a blessing, a blessing, a blessing to the community and the nation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0005par0092	Thank you. Congressmans, we also congratulate our football team, which is the 1st in the Inter Parliamentary Football Tournament this year, consisting of our champions and only members of parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0006par0097	It's rigged, it's rigged.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0005par0099	There's no fix. We expect new championships from you. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Salih Cora will be the second to speak. Here you go, Mr. Cora. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0007par0136	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers in 2018 on the Ministry of Youth and Sports Budget. I hereby salute you precious members of our Veteran Assembly and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens. In my budget speech, I'd like to discuss the issues of sports and sports development during the AK PARTI rule period. Dear friends, Turkey, when we look at its last fifteen years, may be the top of the most investing countries in sports in Europe. Our Sports General Directorate has quickly completed many investments with national stadiums, swimming pools, football and basketball courts, tennis courts and youth centres, again, along with track track athletics. The maintenance and repair of existing sports facilities has been completed, modernised. In doing so, we took special interest in the primary areas of development. In the last six years alone, we've established 1,160 sports facilities. Thanks to these investments in plumbing and infrastructure, our country has hosted huge international sports organizations. We've made the world's most vocal organizations. We hosted the Champions League in football. The U21 World Football Championships, the Winter Games in Erzurum, the EYOF Youth Olympics in Tripoli, the World Basketball Championship in World Basketball Championships; such were the major events in all areas of sports. In particular, after the World Basketball Championship, after Turkey's defeat in the United States and finished second place in the United States, FIBA Secretary-General Patrick Baumann stated that the most successful organisation in the history of the 60-year world championships was carried out by Turkey, followed by an organization of about 1 billion viewers in about 200 countries. On the one hand, the plumbing move, on the other hand, we're very grateful that it's capable of hosting giant organizations. So, what's our target now? This is important. Dear friends, with the economic size of the world, we need to raise top-level athletes who will allow our country within the G20 to take part in sports in the top 20 countries. We, as a government, have eliminated the most important physical barriers to sports, and more than that, the state is the main sponsor of sports. In an effort to explore and develop talented athletes, we have established Turkey's readiness centres for the Olympics, TOHM centres. But it's not just the government's job to raise athletes, it's the federation's job. We've passed an autonomy law on the Federation, and we've always provided the necessary support for our federations. So we're going to have to take the way we do in sports, in construction, and now we're going to have to work out a lot of things in sports, and we're going to have to work out our goals on a lot of things. It's a long and difficult road, as you can see. I'd like to tell you about the story of the Chinese bamboo tree. In fact, the story of athletes and Chinese bamboo trees is very similar. The seed of the Chinese bamboo tree is planted, watered, fertilized, harvested at the end of a year; it is seen that at the end of a year, the seed has not been able to rise above the soil. It's watered again, fertilized, waited for the second year; at the end of the second year, it turns out the seed didn't grow again. Three years, four years, so finally, at the end of the fifth year, the seed sprouted, the bamboo began to grow, and at the end of six weeks, the bamboo tree rose to 27 meters. So the bamboo tree has reached 27 meters in six weeks, up to 27 meters in five years and six weeks? When we look at it this way, of course, in five years and six weeks, with great patience, with knowledge, with interest, with master farmers, bamboo raised its roots to the sky. And when we evaluate this with sports education, we plant the seeds in terms of the work that I'm talking about up there, and we get what we want with a system of attention and discipline, and we get what we want with patience and patience. With the successful athletes we're raising, we're going to achieve our goals, we're going to come to this scene, no one's going to doubt it. We're in the harvest process now. Throughout the world, we will be able to carry out this course with our farmers, our trainers. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish our budget to be good luck, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0008par0145	Thank you, Mr Cora. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, they will speak thirdly for Kastamon MP Metin Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, the speakers who will speak on behalf of the EC PARTY Group have five minutes to speak. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0009par0151	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of our Sports General Directorate for 2018. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Our Sports General Directorate, on the one hand, has established facilities for every major sport, while in the other, has signed a number of important organisations for the development of sports in our country. Between 2011-2017, he was involved in a total of 1,162 project investment programmes, including 72 swimming pools, 324 football venues, 286 youth centers, 286 sports stadiums, 32 stadiums, 34 youth, Boy Scouts and camping training centres, 8 ice skating halls, 9 ski resorts, 4 wrestling sites, 3 shooting facilities, 74 bleaching and lighting. As of 2017, 832 projects have been completed and launched, 186 projects are under construction, 144 facilities continue to work on projects, tenders and land allocations. In the process, many sports halls, football fields, and other facilities were built in Kastamonu, which continued to be built along with the youth centre and sports factory. Our new closed gym is in the investment program, and the land allocation process is finalised. Hopefully, it'll start as soon as possible. In addition, 1,244 of the 2,220 neighborhood football, volleyball and basketball fields, which have been produced by our Sports Toto Agency presidency, have been launched, and others have continued to do so. Congressmans, our Ministry of Youth and Sports budget... As part of protocols with TOKI and municipalities, the construction of 19 stadiums with a total of 405,000 audience-capable modern stadiums is under way. In addition to these developments at the plant point, work continues to be done to promote sports, boost our country's international achievements and support for successful athletes. In this context, the number of licensed athletes has increased from 848 to 8 million times more than 10 times since 2003. The number of students participating in school sports activities organised by our Sports General Directorate since the 2010-2011 school year has increased year after year. In 2011, 529,000 students participated in 21 majors, while 2 million 226,000 students participated in 40 majors this year. Again, the Anadolu Star League Project, created in line with the aims of developing our sporting infrastructure, more competitions, infrastructure for clubs and national teams, to create a sustainable talent tracking system at the national level, and the NULIG Project, which we believe our university students will contribute not only to sports but also to social and cultural development, has been launched, and the number of athletes participating in these leagues have been increasing every year. Dear lawmakers are clear that without sports clubs, there will be no improvement in sports. Despite this fact, in 2002, only 317,000 euros were offered to 17 sports clubs, while the total amount of $1,279 clubs, including 684, which operate in disabled majors, were paid $11,600,000 in cash, and more than $12,000 have been paid to our sports club since 2002. Members of parliament, the figures I'm trying to introduce have made it clear that in the direction and goals shown by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have traveled a great distance in terms of the development of sports and sports and the development of our country internationally successful infrastructure, as in every area during the EC PARTI administrations. In recent years, Turkey has been able to host many major and brand international organisations, along with the large progress at the plant point, clubisation, increased number of licensed athletes, and has been increasingly sporting success. Mr. President, despite all the obstructions, attempts to shut down our party, attempts to travel, attempts to coup 17 December 25th and July 15th, we have raised Turkey three times in 15 years. The so-called case in the United States, which we consider to be a continuation of these initiatives, which is going on in order to put our country in distress, is a complete fraud. Despite all that, today, under the leadership of our President, Turkey has grown and flourished in every area, at first... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a country that leads the world of Islam in the face of attacks on our saints, the matter of Jerusalem. Hopefully, we'll all walk to greater achievements together. With these feelings, I salute our Veteran Assembly, wishing that the Central Management Law of 2018 would be a blessing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0010par0164	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, they will now speak for Kayseri MP Sami Dedeoglu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0011par0168	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to discuss the budget for 2018, the Office for Higher Education Loans and Homes of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute my Kayserian countrymen and my beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of the Veteran Assembly and their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we begin with our agenda, I strongly condemn the United States' decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Jerusalem is the threshold of the door to the Miraca. Jerusalem is the second mosque on earth. Jerusalem is the temple of mankind, the symbol of repentance, an integral part of our history. Jerusalem is the name of the city built in heaven and sent down to the earth. Jerusalem is the center of three great heavenly religions. Jerusalem, I send you greetings from the great Turkish nation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our young men are our most precious asset. We never leave their preparation for life to chance, never to entrust it to hands we don't know or trust. The investment of young people is undoubtedly the most precious and blessed of investments. It's also the longest-term and most permanent investment. With the young population of the Republic of Turkey, today is the most powerful country in Europe. Our youth is a guarantee of our future. As we prepare them for life, it is our top priority as a state to protect them from all the bad habits of the age, such as alcohol, drugs, prostitution, gambling. In this spirit, we make a special effort to support our high - learning youth financially and spiritually. The young population is the most fundamental element of development and development. Our young people have always struggled with problems in the past and have not been able to express themselves freely. Our power has considered every investment in youth to be equal to plotting the course of our future, and has always acted with that consciousness. Mr. President, from 1962, only a limited number of students receive student loans, while from 2004 all students are granted loans, successful and needy students are granted scholarships. From 2002 to today, the EC PARTY has opened a breakthrough at the point of support for our university students under the roof of the Institute for Higher Education Loans and Dorms. The loan and housing institution budget reached 494m euros in 2002 and reached 11 billion 337m euros in 2017, nearly 23 times higher. The 2018 budget was designed as $13 billion 900m, with a 23 per cent increase in the 2017 budget. In 2002, the student loan reached $470 in 2018, when it was 45 euros a month. Graduation students are paid twice that amount, and their doctorate students are paid three times that amount. As in every aspect of life, the AK PARTY is the guarantee of our future, and all the possibilities for our young people are used to the fullest. In 2002, 451,550 students were given student loans, while 1,151,888 students from 2017 took advantage of this opportunity. The number of students receiving scholarships in 2017 is 451,000, a total of 1,602, 966 students receiving scholarships and student loans. In 2002, 77 districts were served in 59 districts with 190 dorms, while today, 758 universities are serving in 81 districts and 243 districts. However, in 2002 the bed capacity was 190 thousand, while in 2017 the number of beds reached 652,549. If the deceased is single, his siblings are given free housing and scholarships to his children, if he is single, his children, if he is married, students whose health board report has been found to be 40 per cent disabled, students whose parents have passed away, students who have completed high school and matching studies in public dorms.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0012par0180	Complete, I'll give you an additional minute, Mr. Dedeoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0011par0181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the past years, our homes have been filled by 60 per cent, 70 per cent, while in recent years, they have reached 100 per cent. New, modern buildings serve in social environments such as cleaning, security, and hot water for 24 hours, including common study areas, canteens, cafeterias. I wish our 2018 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0013par0185	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Nüğde MP Erdogan Özegen will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Özegen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0014par0189	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Finance Ministry budget of 2018. I hereby salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, budgets are the political and financial result of the year we are in, and of what will be discussed in the next year, and of what will be spoken in the next year. Looking at it this way, in the time of the AK PARTI rulings, we see that our country is three times larger than it was in the past. We're going to talk about a variety of reviews, comments, figures, of course, but when we look at this picture, there's a Turkey that grows three times as big as the AK PARTI administrations. And that shows us that the understanding of governance, the strong economy, the principle of quality democracy, has developed democracy in 15 years, despite all the obstacles in our country, and that it has tripled the economy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, where we come from today, despite crisis tellers, in 2018, our EU-defined debt stock has an informal national rate of 28.5%. We expect the general state deficit to happen at 1.9 per cent of the GDP. These are well below Maastricht Criters. In other words, it is estimated that every 100 lira tax collected ahead of our powers will go to interest and balance, while every $100 tax collected today will be used for interest costs. This is a sign of our power's understanding of governance, which has turned our country into a construction site, not a ratio. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That is why services from transportation to education, health to agriculture and defence industry are a means of attaining our nation's appreciation in all areas. Dear lawmakers, it is also very important to understand the circumstances under which these actions were performed. All of this, remember what kind of Turkey was when we came to power. First the resistance of the bureaucracy, behind which many coup plans, the coup plots of custody, the Iraq war, the closure of our party, the April 27th e-mutation, the 367 Constitutional crisis, the 2008 world economic crisis, the State attack, Reverend Santoro's murder, and a series of unsolved killings, the Trip actions, the MIT crisis, the December 17-25th, the coup attempt on our country, and the attacks of all terrorist organizations, the 3 million Syrian brothers, who we had to host in our country, the Russian crisis, and the coup attempt on all of them. In spite of this, Turkey has been raised threefold. And under what circumstances did we take over an economy? It's an economy whose treasure is bankrupt, struggling to pay off its foreign debts. Here is our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has raised our economy three times as many times in front of this painting, and who, despite all the problems and crises I count inside and out and the coup attempt, has shown great fear of ruling Turkey, and who has voted for our party in every election, especially in every election, in the name of my nation and in person of the members of the AK PARTI staff. Again, the budget of 2018 was prepared with this understanding that our Finance Minister and his team, in particular, brought the budget of 2018 to Parliament by doing a series of financial reforms that are actually there for production, for all the social sectors of the real sector. I especially thank him and his team. Again, it's been a great deal of work in drafting the 2018 budget... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Dear Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Bey and repeat Mr. Minister of Finance, our members of the Plan and Budget Commission, thanking you, our fellow members of the General Assembly, and our fellow bureaucrats, who have offered their criticism and contributions to the General Assembly, and to wish our budget to the good of our beloved nation and your grand delegation, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0015par0203	Thank you, Mr. Özegen. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, İstanbul MP Abdullah Başcı will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0016par0207	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group in favor of the Finance Ministry budget of 2018. I salute you all with respect and love. At the beginning of my words, I once again condemn the United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister's vile attacks on our heroic commander, Fahrettin Pasha, who defended Mecca and our President. Jerusalem is the first Muslim capital and will remain the capital. I strongly condemn the indiscriminate attitude of the President of the United States. From the founders of our party who recently passed away, and also from the head of the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce, Ibrahim Çağlar Bey, who died of another heart attack, to AK PARTİ Tashkent District President Abdulbaki Acet Bey, who once again died of a heart attack, I ask for the blessing of God and his family. Mr. President, the precious MPs are the 16th budget prepared by the EC PARTY governments in 2018. That's a record. The Turkish economy has shown a strong outlook for growth performance after the global crisis. Economic policies, our dynamic private sector, the healthy banking system, and the trend of strong growth with public financial values. Our economy has been negatively affected by misdemeanor propaganda, terrorist attacks, domestic and external factors, recession in tourism and poor external demand after the July 15th coup attempt. However, due to the macroeconomic policies of our government, our economy has quickly recovered and achieved 5.1 per cent growth in the first half of 2017, thanks to measures taken in place and time. With this growth performance, it was the third fastest-growing country among the G20 countries since China and India. In light of all this data, he grew 11.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2017, making a new record, becoming world leader in growth. Our year-end projections are also calculated at 7.5 percent. With this high growth and strong performance, our country reduces the difference between income and developed countries. In the post-crisis period, Turkey has been separated from both developed and developing countries in terms of budget deficits and debt. The high-level budget deficit in developed countries during the post-crisis period has shown a trend in developing countries. As a result of radical decisions, our budget is no longer an interest budget, it's a service budget. In 2002, 86 per cent of the budget went to interest, down to 12 per cent in 2017. Hopefully, in 2018, we'll reduce it to less than 10 percent. The strong growth trend we caught in the economy, economic stability and strong public finance balances have significantly lowered public debt costs while reducing the need for debt by supporting each other. The precondition for development is education. In order to ensure qualified education, we have again divided the largest share of education into 2018, as in previous years. In 2018, we're raising our education rate to $134 billion. In this way, we divide 18 per cent of the budget into education, in other words, 22 per cent of the tax collection into education. Again, by improving the quality of health care we offer to citizens, we constantly improve the quality of service for the growth of spiritually and physically healthy generations. In this context, we increase our health care spending to 127 billion in 2018, just like in the field of education. In 2002, we raised our health expenses, which are 11.3 per cent of the budget, to 16.6 per cent in 2018. One of the key factors of our economic policies is regional and rural development. And we're putting high-scale resources in these areas. On this occasion, we will continue our strong performance in 2017, as well as in the coming years. I wish our budget of 2018 to be good for our country, our nation, our institutions and institutions, and I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0017par0219	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. And now Mr. Recai Berber, Congressman of Manisa, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Berber, your time of speech is ten minutes, because we've added Mr. Babscu's time to your time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0018par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, on the budget of our esteemed congressmen, our esteemed citizens, the President of the IRS of 2018. On behalf of my group and myself, I salute your grand delegation. As it is known, taxes are the most important funding of public services, such as defence, justice, security, education. At the same time, the budget of the 2018-year budget of the country's most important organisation in tax practices, which is also one of the key tools of finance policy, is estimated at $3.2 billion. The most important job of the IRS is to ensure that taxes are paid in full and at the proper time, by caring for their rights and willing to pay taxes; to analyze the reasons for this, to assess the risks of integration, and to take measures against them according to these risks. Therefore, the Office of the IRS adopted a higher quality, faster, and broader sense of service, and many applications have been implemented in this framework. In the same perspective as tax administrations of developed economies during the EC PARTI administrations, in 2005 the Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the IRS, has been restructured and has already signed many innovations. He closely followed the economic life that was developed by efficient and efficient use of his resources, and guided his practices in that direction. Today we serve our citizens directly with the presidency of 30 IRS heads, 453 IRS offices, 479 property managers. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you now about the work of the IRS administration's work on taxing technological opportunities in order to improve the quality of service to the taxpayers. As it is known, one of the most important factors in tax collection is the development of tax awareness in society. In this regard, many activities and practices have been implemented by the Ministry of Finance, where tax communication services are provided to taxpayers and taxpayers, where the taxpayers are visited each year by the Tax Week events and their proposals are received, and students are given tax-conscious training through joint studies with the Ministry of National Education. As of October 2017, the Tax Communication Centre provided over 610,000 counselling services. In addition, an e-mail, a text message, a guide, a brochure, is carried out in order to contribute to the information society, which is the main phenomenon of today. We are receiving problems and suggestions from our taxpayers and the Overresponsibility System. The Chairman of the IRS is using all the resources of technology to provide high quality services by looking after the rights of the taxpayer. In this case, the notifications, particularly tax returns, and the transactions on many issues, are all electronically transferred; e-fatura, e-archiv, e-defter are several of them. With these applications, the costs of our taxpayers' tax work have been severely reduced. In addition, with a further application, the pre-arranged rent statement system was expanded from 1 March 2016 to a rapid statement system, which means that the taxpayers, along with the rent revenues, are able to hand over their notifications of their income from wages, capital revenues and income from other earnings, without having to go to tax agencies, without having to receive expert assistance from any environment. Mr. President, unregistered lawmakers are, as it is known, one of the most important factors to disrupt the economic structure of countries around the world, to cause unfair competition, to negatively affect the structure of revenue distribution. In fact, separating economic activities as non-registered and unregistered makes tax evasion seem innocent and normal. ▪ Unregistered activity means tax evasion. As part of the fight against the informal economy, action plans covering 2008-2010, 2011-2013 were successfully implemented in the Co-ordinating of the Office of the IRS. On the other hand, the two previous action plans under the increase of voluntary fitness to the tax and transition to the registered economy lead to further management of the IRS, the Off-the-Regional Determination Program Action Plan, the responsibility of 15 institutions, along with 51 institutions and organisations. In fact, today, the most important thing that motivates our citizens in taxes is the investments and services that our governments have made in all areas, with taxes paid by citizens. In every aspect of life, in transport, in health, in education, in every aspect of everyday life, he lives and sees the services of the state, and so it is actually one of the most important things that motivates the citizen to pay taxes because the tax he gives is now being served by him, and he also lives in his everyday life as a work, and he sees the consequences for himself. Dear friends, by the way, I'd like to thank you, with 38,000 dedicated employees of our IRS, our colleagues, who have reached 100,000 free employees of our IRS, our accountants, financial advisors, our sworn financial advisors, and our conscious citizens who are trying to pay their taxes in full and on time, to our taxpayers. In this part of my speech, I would also like to mention that today, as the head of the IRS administration and the head of the Tax Control Board under tax control in our time, it may have been the most important reforms of the revenue management since the establishment of the Ministry of Finance. Now, as our Finance Minister has often explained, we have the most important reform to expect from the Ministry of Finance. Now, in the 21st century -- including the truly well-designed income tax, institutional tax, added value tax -- our tax system has been reassembled, because in recent years, especially since 1984, when the final added value tax has been applied, there have been a lot of changes in many laws, even in non-tax laws, and therefore even experts have been forced to follow it. How did we re-organize and redesign the Turkish Trade Law together during the past period, and now, hopefully, our tax laws, our Finance Ministry, with the work of our IRS, the Law of Value Taxes, in the same way that in the 21st century, in the 21st century of the IRS Act, we have to re-establish the presidency to be implemented in the government system -- perhaps in technical matters -- we should be able to work in a system where, of course, people who want a lot of expertise in technical matters, who want to know what is taxed and what is no longer taxed? This, in essence, has counted the benefits of our tax laws, you know, in the time of our tax laws, which are considered to be taxed, such as these, which are considered to be an exception to the untaxed gains, which, in fact, should be considered an exception, to the Turkish citizen, who resides in Turkey, and that all tax revenues are subject to taxes, perhaps in this context, should be followed by a new system, in order to re-design all taxes. In parallel with both the structural reforms the Finance Ministry has carried out so far and the measures the economy has taken against the missing and fugitives, there is a great need for this at the point where we come today. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance has always been viewed as a classic anti-tax reduction in the past. It has been perceived as a tax reduction. But today, when we get over the 2008 crisis, in Turkey -- in the words of our president -- if the 2008 world crisis has passed, one of the biggest shares in this is the Ministry of Finance because from 2009, one of the most radically has opened the way for the economy, and since 2009, Turkey has again grown at a very high rate. If it has again made the world's largest, most important growth in the world today, this has happened in the past few months, you know, with the reduction of value tax in certain goods, with support for these economies. Therefore, I would like to congratulate our Finance Ministry and the IRS again on its effective use of tax policies as a means of financial policy and economic policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our budget of 2018 was good for our nation, our Finance Ministry, our country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0019par0241	Thank you, Mr. Barber. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Congresswoman Ergün Taşcı will now speak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Stoneman.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0020par0245	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. I salute the grand jury. Today, I'd like to talk about the public contractor's budget. The Public Relations Act 4734, which recognizes transparency, competition, efficient use of resources, accountability, public control, credibility and equal treatment as a basic principle, has been established by the Public Relations Act 4734, and the processes related to the contract have been implemented by the Law on Public Contracts 4735. The Public Contraction Agency is an autonomous institution that regulates and oversees the financial size of about 7 per cent of our national income and about 20 per cent of the total public spending, based on data from 2015 and 2016. Mr. President, when we look at the Public Contraction Agency, there are three main tasks based on its law. Editing, auditing and training mission. As the institution performs its mission to regulate the system, it is often referred to legislation changes by taking the views of actors and public institutions and organisations in the sector to overcome the obstructions in the system, respond to new needs, and make implementation more operational. The tender law is a dynamic area, it's appreciated. As needs change, as technology develops, and in this context, as public needs differ, it is inevitable to make changes in secondary legislation in particular. Such changes are common not only in our country, but also in European Union countries. From time to time, systems have been voiced about the frequent changes in legislation; all changes in these legislation are only about passing implementation experiences into legislation. Because there is no chance of piloting a field such as public tenders, where buyers and vendors are present and the actions of these vendors can only be measured in real market conditions. Therefore, any rule of law has the ability to understand its ability only after the execution. In particular, the institution has signed changes that eased the system in 2015 and 2016, removing obstacles to services and works, mitigating bureaucracy. For example, many steps have been eased, such as the ability to introduce underlying property and service contracts in an electronic environment -- small consistent tenders on EKAP, steps and simplifications of the system on over-low bids, possible loss of time by administrations, through EKAP. So the Electronic Public Imports Platform (ECAP) system must be further operational and improved. The accession to the certificate system will thus be laid out, and in the near future, the accession of tenders will be opened without a document presented by those willing. Another mission inspection mission. Public acquisitions claim that the tenders for the Public Contraction Agency are not being audited in particular. There is a process at the Public Contractorship where you apply for a complaint that complains about auditing and contests, and you apply for a pre-judgment administrative application. Here, four out of about 100 tenders come as complaints against the institution. When we look at the nature of the complaint here and the success of the institution's study, when the decisions after the public tender agency's review go to the judiciary, close to 90% of the judiciary make decisions for the board, and 80 per cent of the public tender board's decisions do not go to trial. This indicates that the institution is doing a serious investigation. Here, again, we need to give some examples of the fine work of the institution regarding educational activity. The institution is actively collaborating with universities to assess the efficient use of resources with all of its shareholders, and the foundations of academically tender law are formed. And here we see an academically successful publication of the Society of Public Contractors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I wish you all the best in the institution's budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0021par0253	Thank you, Mr. Stoneman. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the last to speak is Mr. Denizhattin Minsolmaz of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0022par0257	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Privatisation Administration Chairman for 2018. I salute your grand delegation, the Veterans Assembly, and our beloved nation. Before I begin to talk about the budget, our first qiblah, which has been tried to be the center of chaos, wishes to end human rights violations in Jerusalem, and around the world, and wish for an equal and just world where peace prevails. Precious lawmakers, the President of the Privatisation Administration, aims to focus on infrastructure investments that cannot be taken over by the state's main duty, education, health, security, justice and the private sector since it was founded, while the economy will be run in a healthier manner by market mechanisms. In order to create a competitive market economy with privatisation practices carried out within this scope, the government's testing and commercial activities are sought to minimize. As a matter of fact, the OSCE financing burden on the state budget has been reduced and privatisations of public companies using public supply methods. In addition, the boom savings have been brought into the economy and the capital has spread to the ground, leading to major investments. Dear friends, the President of the Privatisation Administration has set the establishment of competition in terms of open competition conditions, transparency, accountability and the basic principles of participation as a prerequisite for the establishment of the highest value and the failure of employees in privatised institutions. A total of 38,239 people have thus far been given the opportunity to work at 4/C status in various public institutions and institutions. All privatisation tenders, which are carried out as a government, care to account at every step of the privatisation practices, are publicly and transparently informed. Dear lawmakers, the President of the Privatisation Administration is working hard to achieve the goal of Turkey, which has 84 per cent license and grad schooling, each of which has the capacity of 298 staff in its area, with the power of competition. The Privatisation Administration, however, is one of our top institutions that can be modeled in the ideal way that the woman we care deeply about during our rule joins in business. It is one of the basic principles of management's human resources administration to prevent any discrimination, especially gender discrimination. With 42 per cent of women's personnel in this framework, Turkey is a far higher institution than its average. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the privatisation practices that were carried out during our governments and bound to the contract are at a cost of $60.8 billion. This figure corresponds to about 90 per cent of the total income provided by applications so far. One of the most important areas of privatisation we've conducted recently is our energy sector. During the period from 2012 to November 2017, the privatisation of electricity production of nearly 6,000 megawatts powered 10 thermal plants and 71 hydropower plants powered by 1,120 megawatts took place within the scope of $11.5 billion. Prior to privatisation of thermal power plants, the private sector share, 56.6 per cent of the installed power base in 2012, was raised to 75.5 per cent in this framework. Boosting competition and efficiency, reducing the burden of employment and financing on the public, promoting innovation and improving infrastructure in order to boost potential growth, are possible with privatisation practices, and they are one of our policies to continue in macroeconomic frameworks. In our privatisation administration's 2018-year budget, 22.6 million employees and security costs have been offered at a total of 33 million, including 3.6 million transactions and capital costs, 6.8 million purchases and services. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as a result, I salute the employees of our Privatisation Administration, who are one of the leaders of our country, who has set records because of the confidence and stability we have provided during our rule, and who is one of the leaders in the creation of the competitive market, with the transparency and accountability of the operation, and I respectfully salute and respectfully wish our budget to our country and our Privatisation Administration. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0023par0267	Thank you, Mr. Minsolmaz. That concludes the talks on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. Now, let's hear from the speakers of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Saffet Sandzak will be the first to speak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Starboard.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0273	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And I pay my respects to the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of the screens. We're going to talk some Turkish sports today. Of course, we're all interested in Turkish sports. Today, more than 60 million people are interested in sports -- maybe 80 million people in Turkey -- if you don't count the babies -- at least one team, even if we all don't do sports. The situation of Turkish sports is dire. Why is it so bad? I'd like to talk a little bit about it today, and then maybe we can all come up with a solution. Of course, my fellow lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party who came here always talk about 2002, after 2002, this is what happened. Of course, some exaggerate, while we listen to it ourselves, as if there was no Turkey before 2002, no Turkish sports, no nothing at all. (CHEERING) That's not true. Let me tell you a little bit about sports before and after 2002. Of course, after 2002, the Justice and Development Party did one thing very well, at the European level, perhaps at world standards. What is this? Plumbing. When we look at football stats today, compared to the times we played, there's been an extraordinary development. In fact, the stats, the facilities that have been done, are extraordinary; when they're doing all the talks, when they're talking about all the praises about sports, they're probably going to talk about the facilities they're doing a little bit later, and they're probably going to say, well, we've built this much, and we've had this much, and there's a lot of athletes -- and we've just heard from a substitute friend of ours -- they've all come up from 800,000 to 8 million. These are very good data, but if they're not successful in the end, and in general, if Turkish sports doesn't move forward, it doesn't mean a lot. Before 2002, for example, a valuable football team in Turkey, our Galatasaray, took the UEFA Cup, and then took the Super Cup. In the 2002 World Cup, our Turkish national team, together with great pride, became third in the world, we all remember, probably in July 2002. Now, in 2002, we were the 3rd in the world, 42nd in the ranking last November, which is from 3th to 42nd. The games aren't being played now, we can't go back very far, but if the games started, maybe -- probably -- we'll go back further. So, how come there's so much plumbing, there's so much opportunity, and so much Turkish economy has grown, really, when there's so much data -- there's so many facilities -- why is success going backwards, why is there no success? I'll tell you a little bit about them. Now -- in Turkish sports, or rather -- the Olympics are being looked at as we measure the sport of world countries. As you know, many majors participate in the Olympics and the state of the country emerges. Three of the worst Olympics in Turkish Olympic history after 2002, Mr. Minister, are in degrees. And a serious part of the medals we received were from athletes. Now, then I have to ask: we have all this opportunity, all this money, all this facilities, why are we in this situation? Reason number one: you've made everything so political. When you were making the elections in these federation elections, you put dynamite under Turkish sports in the form of administrations, whether it's our party or our party members, relatives of lawmakers, ministers. Now, of course, let me tell you a little bit about football, which is most popular, for example, because it's the most interesting sport. I've spoken here several times for Turkish sports, Turkish football. Every time we sit backstage with our fellow trustees here, they ask me, what's going to happen to our team? What's going to happen to this team, this team? What will happen to Turkish football? I've actually told you a few times here: Now, there's a Turkish Football Federation. The President of the Football Federation can't go to any football games, my friends, and he's booing everywhere he goes, and he can't go to the championship team to give his trophy. The last time Mr. President went to Beşiktaş's game, there was no President of the Football Federation again. Now, I don't know what we're pushing. There's a failure, there's a Turkish football going to an incredible cliff, why are you still keeping those guys there? Now, don't even think of it this way when I say this: Saffet Sandzaker wants someone to be President of the Football Federation, or does he want a team, or does he want the National Movement Party to be there? That's not what he wants, guys. I want him out of his word. I'll tell you something else: the Football Federation is over now, and they can't stop much longer, but if these guys are going to be replaced by the same kind of guys, don't change at all; let Turkish football fall off the cliff anyway. Now, the Turkish budget has grown this big, so much facility, so much money is being invested in football clubs... I'm going to give you a few statistics, I'm going to read to you from here: Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş and Tripolipor is now a net debt of $7 billion, 7 quadrillion in old money. If they just pay interest on them, they'll pay $700 million per year interest on 10% per year, so if we divide it into four cabins, they'll only pay interest on 160, 170, 180 million dollars per year. These clubs are screwed, guys. Right now, this is 1. I'm telling you a few of the clubs we call the League owe us 45 million, Eskişehirspor 197 million, Manisaspor 60 million, Gaziantepspor 113 million; these are only 1. They're in the league. 2. In the league, Mersin training was 160 million, in the opposite sport 54 million; in the amateur cluster, the army is 84 million. So what I'm trying to say is that it's all so screwed up, but we're just trying to trick people from this side, with some stupid sports program that's been done, and here's some footage that we're telling them that Turkish football is in great shape. Friends, right now it's Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş and Tripoli. He's got to fall to the league because of the fiscal fair play. Our 6th league in Europe is money. In the latest tender, you know, $600 million a year only has broadcasting revenues, but right now the teams have 2. It's got to fall into the league because of this financial data. Why don't they drop it? The entire Turkish League, big teams; the 6th league of Europe as money, as an opportunity, as a status. How's that? Look, one day -- not too long -- these teams are going to fall. Now, remember, in these last five years, seven of our football teams have been suspended 14 years from European trophies. The fines come from European Cups: suspension, fines, a penalty for deleting points, and then a penalty for dropping clusters. There are now teams whose scores have been deleted, such as 1. 3 points for Balıkesirspor, 3 points for Eskişehirspor, 9 points for Manisaspor, 3 points for Gaziantempspor; 2. The 3 points of Bucaspor, the 3 points of the Alexandrian Union, the 9 points of Mersin İdmanyürür, the 6 points of the opposition, the 12 points of the army. Now, what does the Football Federation do with all this, Mr. Secretary? Somebody tell me. Turkish football is at the bottom of the cliff now, and we're still talking about these virtual things. By God, this year the Besiktas Football Team is making an extraordinary effort in the European Cups, making an extraordinary success, and we're holding on for a while. How many people are watching our national team now? The state of the national team is clear, the scandals are clear. Last time, a few months ago, the Ampute national team -- God bless -- became a European champion, and we were delighted. Before becoming a champion, 90 percent of Turkey did not know what it was. Now, of course, what do you have to do? And we're going to throw away this broken system, we're going to set up a proper system... what is this system? In the rules of FIFA and UEFA, in the developed countries of Europe -- here, in Germany, in Spain, in France -- we will bring and build the system. Names don't matter. There are so many MPs here. Mr. Secretary, you're the Minister of Sports, and I'm a former national football player. This is what we call the largest club in the world, Manchester, Barcelona, Real Madrid club presidents, one of them is here or the name of the President of the German Football Association. Guys, they set up the system, the name doesn't matter. We have nothing left to be very happy about in Turkey. The country's in a major attack, they're attacking us from all sides. These people are unhappy, we have a lot of problems. With a little bit of sports, especially football, we can make people happy, but only if we do the right thing. For example, there's a football club law that's been waiting for seven years. In a speech made in April 2017 by the former Minister, this law will be passed until the end of the Lug. The law will not come out, and you probably won't be able to if you continue like this. And the reason is, it's a well-prepared law, though it's a narrow frame, a law made by narrow people, but we're okay with it for now. One clause of the law states that football clubs, managers, club presidents and managers are personally responsible for debts during their time. Even that stuff can change a lot of things in Turkish football. Then let's see if there are any debts. When they run these clubs, will they run them like their father's farm? They're all conglomerate bosses, conglomerates, the financial structure of the clubs. I have bad news for you, that we may not be able to see even the elders in the Super League very soon. This law is important, it must pass at once. Here's the second thing: we're talking about these foreigners, no players in the national team. What are we doing in the minor leagues? In the minor leagues, especially 2. And 3. There's a problem with the league, Minister, and you know it. Most of what I'm telling you isn't about you because you're the new Minister, and hopefully you'll fix it, but there's a tradition that comes with the AK PARTI powers. That's 2. And 3. They have league teams, which are considered infrastructure. From there the players will come to the Super League, and they will play the ball, and from there they will go to the national team. I'll tell you the income of the clubs. And 3. Please listen closely to the league's income, its net income. 3. The league's income is $1,400,000; 770,000 of it is from the Football Federation. 630,000 are from Sport Toto. 2. The league team has a little bit more than 830,000 from the federation, 945 thousand from Toto, or 1.5 million from Toto. So, how much do they cost? Four million minimum, $15 million maximum. All those who spent these 15 million TLs are municipal teams, city-sponsored, and about 99 per cent of them support the municipalities of the ruling party. Yes, support them, it doesn't matter, but in 1908, the Vefa, the Beykoz Teams, founded five years ago in the amateur cluster, Basakşehir Sports plays in the European Cups, and there's an anomaly in that. Now, of course, what did you do? These are the coins that come to them, here, I told you here, from Toto. 630,000 to the league, 2. 945 thousand for the league. In the fifth, sixth week of the league, the General Manager of Sports Toto says: "We're going to settle, and we've cut 50 percent of this money. How can you cut it? We made our transfer according to it, we make our expenses according to it. Well, there's a limitation on our Sports Ministry's budget, and we're going to save money. You're going to save money, and we're not going to make it. We'll lock the doors to the clubs, they say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0025par0297	That's not true.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0298	Mr. Secretary, let me tell you, it's not true here. I'm observing this myself by meeting with their contacts, or I'm not making this up in my head. These friends of ours are coming later, and they're probably meeting with Toto's General Manager, and they're seeing him, and they're seeing him, and they're seeing him, and there's no solution, and they're saying, "What if we're meeting in Ankara, and we're having a meeting about this, and we're going to solve the problem amongst us." How many of these are these, these are the teams I'm talking about? Very impressive numbers: the Super League and the 1st. There are 36 teams in the league, 2. And 3. The league's total number is 90 teams. There are around 3,700 professional football players in the Turkish professional leagues, this is the second one I'm talking about. And 3. The league is 2,700; about 70 percent, give or take. 45 of these 90 clubs are country clubs. When you collect all the populations of these cities, we're talking 35 million people. In trouble, the clubs without municipal support will lock the door. And they say, "Come on, let's get together in Ankara, let's have a meeting about this. How do we solve this? The president of the Football Federation, the great thinker, the great football man Mr. Yıldırım, says: "Come, let's meet with you." He calls, "Look, don't have such a meeting, it's perceived as a rebellion against the government." Look, look, look at the state these guys are in, the Football Federation... what's it to you? Rebellion against what government? These guys are in trouble anyway, they're gonna have a meeting, they're gonna come in here, they're gonna issue a statement and they're gonna go public, is there anything more natural? No, it's a rebellion against the government. Come, I'll give you a grant, so please stop talking about it. Is that an understanding? Yeah, these guys got problems, these guys need to be dealt with. How are they going to solve their problems? I made some notes. So these are, uh, so we're gonna give the cancer patient painkillers. One, they've been paid the same amount of money for five years. Here's 65 if he wins in the field, 55 if he wins in the field, 45 grand for the draw, 35 grand for the win. They've been paid the same price for five years. Please, the amount of money in this bet -- how much was the dollar five years ago, how much money now -- needs to be edited and increased. And there hasn't been a penny in the last 13 years of broadcasting revenue. Actually, it's 2. And 3. To the leagues, the money to go there is about 35 percent. If we don't transfer money from these broadcast revenues, these clubs are gonna lock their doors. For example, what is this ratio in England? The broadcast revenues are given 20% to lower leagues, 20 per cent in Germany, 18 per cent in Spain. Now, one, we need to pay for these from this broadcast revenue. I'm also saying something very important: this is 2. And 3. Please let TRT broadcast the league team matches, Mr. Secretary. TV shows are scheduled for six hours, five hours, four hours. I don't know how many channels there are in TRT, but there's a lot of channels. I assume the TRT is based on Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ. Please, do an intervention on this matter. If they're playing, they're playing, like, two games. And 3. If the leagues' games are televised, how does that breathe into clubs? So the sponsors want to sponsor them, they come in the field for an ad, and they take a breather. I'm asking you specifically. And this is 3. The players in the league have a military problem. Super League, 1. League, 2. The league's a professional. They're able to relegate their military service, these guys are three. The league's a pro, but it can't move. There's a lot of that, too. These kids are being tortured by football clubs. He says, "Give me my money. I won't get a sign here, or I'll report you to the military," he says. There are kids who got married and divorced, and their wives divorced them. They're on vacation, staying at the hotel with another ID. I'm asking you, we've discussed this with you before, and you're very sympathetic about it. Let's have a word with our Secretary of Defense, please bring this up and deal with it. There's one other thing here, and I've mentioned it before, this is about BESYO assignments: Now, there are about 50,000 children who have finished these physical education and sports colleges and are currently available. These are all friends who will raise athletes, manage, and bring Turkish youth, Turkish sports to the forefront. Most likely, of course, there may not be so many places in the Sports Department, and there may not be so many staffs, but we need to find a solution for these kids. These are healthy bodies, healthy brains. They're gone, they're out of school, they're out, they're in labor, they're selling bagels or something. These are our patriotic brothers, who will take the Turkish youth forward, and maybe turn the bad grades we received in the Olympics into pluses. Please -- and it may not just be the Sports Department -- let's all work this out. Other than that, it's an illegal bet. Now, I've got some data on this illegal bet in front of me. In 2003, nearly $2 billion was coming out of Turkey, abroad, and we didn't have any bets, from these websites. And the government said, "Let's keep this under control. We've established something called Iddaa. There's no problem, but I wonder what this Iddaa does when we look at the data. In 2003, $2 billion was an illegal bet, and after the bet was established, it went up to $15 billion in 2017. In 2003, 1,100 dealerships were opened when these Iddaa dealerships were established. So many people came to me and said, "Please get in the way so I can buy a franchise from this Sports Department." People almost shot each other for it. But whatever happened, since 2013, he specifically closed about 1,350 dealerships. 490 in 2015, 360 franchises were cancelled in 2016. At the moment, Toto (Sports) has 1,200 machines, which he can't give to anyone. You know why? It can't be managed properly. Now, you're looking at bet rates, you're looking at illegal claims, there's a cliff between them. You're looking at the bet, you can't play if you don't play 3-4 games, there's a lot of applications like this, the rates change day by day. This time, people don't make regular bets, they leave, they're able to make illegal bet on the Internet anyway. You always run it the way you do it in the safe, in the safe. If you keep this up, there won't be one Iddaan dealership left in Turkey. That's $15 billion... so if it's up to $15 billion now when the $2 billion dealerships have an illegal bet before they open, then you won't be able to find a franchise that's going to open very soon. Please intervene in this too. Yeah, there's a lot going on. They asked the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" He said, "Where am I straight so I can tell you where?" Now, I've got two special requests here, Mr. Secretary, and we've spoken to you. One is that we former national football players... he's had 20, 30 times, 50 times, 80 times read the Istrillal March... out of the country, out of football life... if I wasn't a congressman... let's say I'm a third. I'm gonna go to a game in the league, Alibeyköyspor-Greenderek Sports game, and I'm gonna line up with the nation, buy a ticket, and that's how I get in. There aren't many like me, maybe 50 or 100 in Turkey. I'm asking you, none of these friends are avoiding the ticket money, but if I've had them read the Sticillal Anthem 50 times, I want them to be given a value in the country, abroad, after football. (Applause from MHP rows) A free pass... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's set up a number of nationals -- whatever the number is -- let's give the people above it a free pass. When I was 15 years old, playing on the younger team, I had a free pass in the amateur cluster.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0026par0310	Mr. Sandzak, your time is up. Could you wrap it up in a minute, please?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0311	Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0026par0312	I can't, just pick it up in a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0313	I haven't picked on the Minister yet.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0026par0314	You've been talking for 20 minutes, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0315	No, not at all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0027par0316	My old teammate.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0026par0317	I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0318	The second thing, Mr. Secretary -- we've discussed this with you -- is we're writing to the Sports Department on our way to the game. Thanks to you, you're not hurting anyone, you're signing everyone, but it goes to our power, and we've talked about it. You said, "We don't have enough seats, so we're setting them up." But I personally have a lot of power. I'm calling my assistant, and I'm saying write to the Ministry of Sports. We're waiting to hear if the minister will sign or not. So please put an end to this practice, leave it to the provinces, the county departments, they'll handle it. Now, I've told you all this, I've told you, there's so much more. I know our Minister, my old friend -- still my friend -- when I say old friend -- who will solve these problems, Mr. Secretary? Who's going to solve these problems with these Anatolian kids?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0028par0320	We'll figure it out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0321	You won't solve them, I won't solve them, this Congress won't solve them, who will?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0029par0322	We've solved it, and we'll continue to solve it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0323	In the name of Allah, the Minister is here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0030par0324	Saffet President, aren't we friends?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0325	Of course we're friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're gonna solve these problems together, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0031par0328	We figured it out together, we'll keep on figuring it out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0024par0329	We're here together, we're here as the National Movement Party, we're here for whatever it takes. And I'm here as the only national athlete in this House. We're ready to do whatever help we need. And thank you for listening to me. Good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0032par0333	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. Mr. Erkan Akçay will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0033par0338	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the IRS. I salute your honorable committee. I'd like to start by considering the finance policy first. Finance policy has four basic sub-politics: tax, spending, debt and other policies. In other policies, we can consider budget policy, non-tax revenues, privatisation, money, interest, incentives, both economic and financial policies in foreign trade policies. In finance policy, the goal isn't just budget balance. In order to address economic imbalances, financial policies are implemented, especially in terms of monetary policy and the policies that I count. The success of finance policy is measured by the level of public debt, if the public has given it a clear balance. It is possible to talk about a relatively successful finance policy in recent years in terms of the national income rate of the budget deficit, but we need to see if this finance policy is sustainable. The relative success of the finance policy is mainly due to one-time non-tax revenues, rather than the basic income of the budget. There are also some projects guaranteed for Treasury, such as public-private cooperation, do-and-do model highways, bridges, city hospitals. There are problems with the transition of these projects, and unfortunately, these projects will lead to huge increases in public spending in the future. The Treasury guarantee is 420 billion Turkish liras in 211 projects worth 206 billion liras. Only 18 city hospitals will pay the state's rent price of 115 billion liras. While the public debt supply is relatively balanced, the private supply of debt and debt of the household is increasing, I'm not going into the numbers. As the budget deficit increases, the current increases, we can't produce without imports, we can't consume, and we can't grow without imports. And to increase consumption, you're still reinforcing finance policy. When we consider the financial policy implementations that took place in 2017 as headlines, measures and incentives to increase employment, financing for small- and medium-sized companies, tax cuts for housing and resilience goods sectors, and similar interventions for 2018 were announced. It's possible to say that consumption has been increased and the economy has been given a temporary spring air, as well as the increase in tax revenues and the budget has been funded, but we can't predict a future without these developments being sustainable. In short, there are significant questions in the context of efficiency and sustainability of finance policy. At this point, I'd like to share some important developments in budget data. Tax revenues are expected to be $520 billion in 2017, with the target over $9.4 billion. However, the bag laws raised taxes, especially on institutional taxes, private consumption tax and motor transportation tax. The actual tax increases will be in the coming days. I hope the allowances, the stamp, the WITS and the income tax don't pop up like an arrow. It is not difficult to predict that there will be tax hikes under the name "regulation" before New Year's. Tax collection is increasing, but in turn, tax quality decreases, decays. Under the laws of debt configuration 6736 and 7020, $22.5 billion was collected by tax agencies until September 30, 2017. This number corresponds to six percent of the $385 billion collection collected during January-June. Since these revenues won't start from the year 2019, they'll be replaced by new taxes. Despite additional collections, the tax collection rate remained at 75 per cent during January and October. Mr. Finance Minister said the taxpayers would receive a value tax of 150 billion dollars. That's probably up to 160 billion dollars right now. This amount will require extra collection and extra return to the taxpayer. 160 billion corresponds to 26 percent of the $612 billion, which is expected to happen in 2017, which is a very large number. This amount, which is referred to as VAT to be extradite, does not appear in public statistics. As a result of 30 years of practice, the situation will be resolved, he said. The question here is, will 160 billion dollars be paid, or will it be deleted? How will it be resolved? The 2017 budget deficit target was 47 billion euros, and today it is estimated that the target will be $62 billion -- over 32 per cent. In the first six months of the year, there were incentives in the white furniture and housing industry, while the juice and lemonade were brought in by the end of the year. We see the government having problems reading and predicting the economy even in the middle and short term, let alone the long term. Wrong tax policy continues in agriculture. The farmer pays taxes without winning. Because of high gas and fertilizer prices, production and transport costs are increasing and consumers are consuming at high prices. Some tax increases lead to inflation growth, while the increase in inflation also leads to a chaining increase in some tax types, not counting. As the profitability of the firms falls, the banks' profitability increases. Half of the companies' taxes are reported to be damaged when they're examined. When you look at the revenue tables of the taxpayers, you can see that the financing costs are constantly increasing. The financing costs of companies are based on 25 per cent of gross sales profits. The cost of financing exceeds the rate of operating profits by 70 per cent. As a result, the firms' profitability declines, while banks continue to increase their profitability. There have been more than anticipated increases in public bank revenues. Public banks, as well as private banks, have doubled their profits, ranked top of their tax record holders, and eight banks and two public institutions are included in the top ten of the tax records list; BOTAS and Electric Productions Inc. A key issue is taken from tax-registered sectors. Instead of increasing the registered economy, each tax arrangement is based on increasing the tax burden of registered taxpayers, and taxes are more focused on fuel, cigarettes, automotive, mobile phone, banking activities, interest-related taxes. One of the key indicators that we're going to refer to as the most important problem in finance policy is the share of tax revenues within the national income, which was 17.5 per cent in 2016, and the 2017 expectation is 17.1 per cent. The decline in this rate is remarkable as it moves from 2016 to 2017. Despite an increase in indirect taxes, especially in areas such as consumption and foreign trade, which have recently been announced, feeding high growth. Dear lawmakers, taxes are not only a means of financing public spending, they also have a social dimension of taxing, which is increasingly important over the years. In the name of this importance, we simply call it justice or tax justice. Tax justice is getting worse in our country. The most important indicator of tax justice is the comparison of indirect and direct taxes. The total income of the indirect taxes is 69 per cent in 2016, and that is 67 per cent in October 2017. Some of the issues we consider important in the Turkish tax system are: the frequency of changes in tax legislation reduces predictability in investment decisions. Tax legislation is a complex structure. Unregistered economies, tax exceptions, exemptions, and reductions make tax compliance difficult, as well as tax harming taxpayers who have fulfilled their tax obligation on time, and pardons also undermine tax justice and weaken tax awareness. In turn, the taxpayers who pay their taxes regularly must be rewarded. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have a kitchen, as do all ministries. Thousands of IRS employees are watching here today, in our Parliament. With central and rural agencies, the peace of working at the Finance Ministry and the IRS remains, unfortunately, and the Treasury personnel are restless. The staff who do the same work at the same tables are subject to different salaries and rights. In the six years, injustices stemming from the difference of wages after the Law Resolution 666, which is not defined as equal to which work is equal to the equal salary of work, have been chronicled for six years. The central-level division continues between experts. That's not fair. What about the center of the expert, the countryside? He's an expert. The achievements and rights of many with high marks are wasted due to the preference of only one province in the entrance examinations to the A.C.E. It would be appropriate to make this a choice of at least two or three provinces. Let's look at the promises. Mr. Finance Minister said there will be an internal expert exam for bookkeeping in Sakarya on March 30, March 17th, but there has been no improvement for nine months. Again, on April 8th, the Ministry of Finance said that an internal expert exam will be opened for staff members of the central and rural agency, and there has been no progress for eight months. Finance personnel are awaiting the Minister's good news today as part of their commitments. The central-level division of specialists must be terminated. Overwork which has been removed by the Court of Law 666 must be restarted; the staff working on holidays, administrative leave must be overpaid. The victims of common trials in the past have not yet been resolved. This matter must be resolved somehow. For disabled, technician's assistant, assistant staff class and other staff, an upgrade and a change of title must be opened. Private service compensations paid to employees must be brought to compensation rates paid to employees of the same title at other public institutions. The additional indicators of managers serving in the country must also be raised. According to the precedents of accounting and national property inspectors, the low duty, authority, responsibility and autonomy rights must be corrected. Employees working in income and expense units must be tested for internal expertise.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0034par0367	Complete, please, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0033par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. I repeat: an internal expert exam must be opened to employees who work in revenue and expense units. As I put an end to my words here, I salute your honorable delegation once again, and wish the budget of the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the IRS and the entire budget to be a blessing, with all due respect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0035par0372	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. İstanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0036par0377	Mr. President, I've been promised by the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budgets of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018; the President of the Privatisation Administration, Public Contraction Agency, Public Protection, Accounting and Control Standards Association. I salute the General Assembly and our humble citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our Republic, has emphasised the importance of the economy for our future and future, no matter how great the military victories may be, if they are not crowned with economic victories. In the early years of our republic, the founding of a strong national economy was determined by the establishment of the main goal of economic policy. Because the private sector does not have sufficient capital savings, many industrial facilities have been established by the state, which is the key element of economic growth and development. As a matter of fact, in the short time following the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, a large number of factories, banks, institutions and organizations have been made important moves for the rapid development of our country. Since the 1930s, the main goal of public economic initiatives has been to repair the lack of production. The privatisation of these institutions came to the attention of the beginning of product supply by the hands of private initiatives, thinking that the purpose of the existence of many OSCEs has been eliminated. In privatisation practices, which began after 1994 in Turkey, the main goal is to promote capital by selling public enterprises in capital markets through public supply. However, at the same time, the state of public enterprise has been established, using the excuse for the situation in which public enterprises should be dealt with no matter what. The privatisation policy, based on such an understanding, is far from allowing public resources to be spread through privatisations, creating a competitive market, increasing production and employment. In our view, privatisation and the establishment of competition in the economy should be aimed at reducing the burden on public finances, efficient use of resources, increasing production and employment, developing technology transfer and export capacity. No initiative should be allowed to replace state monopolyes by private sector monopolys, and the principle of transparency in practice should be fully controlled, and any attempt to disturb the public conscience. Looking at the last 15 years of privatisations, the total share of bloc sales has been 32 per cent, 50 per cent of the sale of facilities and assets. Sales made via public supply have reached only 14 per cent in total sales, while market sales have remained at 2%. This table shows that privatisation policies have failed to achieve their primary goal and goal and are unable to be effective in spreading capital to the bottom. Al, whatever you do. Many companies have been shut down after privatisation policies in the form of wrong privatisation have been privatised, the production has not been continued, the assets, land and other properties of the corporations have been used or sold for other purposes. During the 1985-2017 period, Turkey privatised a total of 68.2 billion dollars. The $60.2 billion of this was carried out after 2003. Despite the sale of many strategic institutions and large privatisation revenues, our external debt, which was 129.5 billion dollars in 2002, increased by $234.4 per cent, as of the second quarter of 2017. The bid for privatisation revenue has not been achieved, and the privatisation of six-tenths of a year in 2017, compared to GDP, has only reached one-third. With privatisations based on the approach that a competitive private sector would be more efficient, the prospect of boosting production and employment has not been met to ease the burden on public finance. In particular, privatisation of agricultural institutions has hampered rural development policies, reduced agricultural production, victimised our farmer, became a major cause of unemployment and migration to major cities. This has once again shown how important it is for all public policies to be determined and implemented in harmony with one another. Dear lawmakers, the basic measure of privatisations and other public tenders is the protection of our national resources, the care of the right to an orphan and the benefit of the public. For this reason, privatisation processes are also necessary to be evaluated in terms of the understanding of fighting corruption. Privatisation practices can be a place where corruption and irregularities develop in public decay, political-business-burocratic triangles. Instead of the amount of cash in his safe or the continuation of production, privatisations, which have been privatised only for his real estate, which have been given financial advantage by his private tax regulations and are lacking in the basis of transparency, unfortunately, have occurred. What we expect as the MHP is that there is no opportunity for corruption in the state administration, no opportunity for corruption in the nation's trust, no account for the rights of orphans; that privatisation practices do not allow abuses due to legal gaps, that the state has sufficient consideration of public benefits in the sale of privileges and assets, that the privatisations in critical sectors are considered national, strategic preferences and priorities. One of the things I'd like to point out here is that with the amendments to the deed law and the Capital Market Law, without any conditions, it's also possible to sell property to foreigners with a non-responsibility approach. This did not rule out the risks of our country's national security and strategic priorities, and a partial limitation of sales after judicial proceedings. Finally, I'd like to talk to you about some findings in the Court Report on the 2016 Final Accounting Law. The report finds that the purchase of goods through direct procurement and bargaining method exceeds the limit of 10 per cent. Although the total share of direct purchases has reached 23 per cent, the legal obligation is that the public tender board has not received its proper opinion, as stated in the Court's report. This error, included in the 2015 Court Report, has been reportedly continued in 2016. It is essentially the right thing to determine funds at the beginning of the budget year and to make the need plan realistic. However, when it comes to crossing the 10 per cent limit for direct procurement, the appropriate opinion of the Public Contraction Board is mandatory. On the other hand, even though it has a large institutional structure and grown human resources, the Privatisation Administration is seen to be doing a lot of work through consulting firms as part of its original mandate. As you may recall, this matter of counsel has been criticised in the Court report last year. The prevalence of this road raises public doubt as to how well public resources are being used. As is known, one goal of control is to contribute to the development of management. For this reason, administrations must make sure that the audit results are met. Each year, the same assessments will mean that the audit results are not taken seriously by the administration, which will prevent control from reaching its goal. Precious lawmakers need to be able to improve the tender system, intervene in the problems that arise, and produce impartial solutions to the public auction board, which has a high potential for public purchases, as well as the problems that have been seen in the implementation. As it is known on January 4, 2002, the Public Contraction Act 4734 was intended to eliminate elements that laid the groundwork for corruption. One of the most important reforms Turkey has made has been changed by exceptional provisions that could prevent the fulfillment of the purpose since 2003. Creating functional or institutional exceptions in the tender law raises questions about the appropriate and auditing of public expenditures and the credibility of tenders. In 2016, a public purchase of 173.7 billion euros, some 30 per cent of budget costs, was made in 2016, and in the first nine months of 2017, that amount was $178.8.8 billion. Of course, it is imperative that the legal infrastructure of such a large and important financial area be presented in a way that does not allow abuse in practice. In the early years when the tender law was introduced, for example, in 2003, the rate of public purchases carried out in open tenders was 82 per cent and the rate of public purchases made by the negotiating process was 17 per cent, while in 2016 the rate of open tenders went down to 73 per cent, and the proportion of purchases made by the negotiation method increased to 26 per cent. In this period, direct procurement has increased by eightfold. Instead of general tender procedures, public purchases are directly provided, creating an open environment for corruption and irregularities, bringing allegations of corruption. For an effective fight against corruption, however, it is essential to address legal, administrative and institutional shortcomings that have laid the groundwork, bring deterrents, create an effective control mechanism, and improve the quality of manpower. In this framework, exception practices that have become an open area of abuse should also be terminated. In order for services to be conducted on a healthy basis, the audit is indispensable. Unsupervised tenders will not be known what is missing or wrong, nor will it be possible to improve the tender process. In this direction, it is imperative that the Public Contraction Agency achieves an activity in preventing and developing the system of negative intervention in the tender system, acting in the independence of execution, fully fulfilling its purpose and resolving its shortcomings in practice. On the other hand, we also consider the need for domestic production to be supported within the framework of public tenders. Essentially, some arrangements have been made in this direction. According to the statistics published by the agency, the price advantage has been applied in favour of the local property of 17.158 tenders open to foreign volunteers. I also want to say that the arrangements in this direction are positive for the strengthening of the national industry and the local manufacturer. Dear lawmakers, the depth and complexity of financial markets and economic structures have increased the importance of reliable information, forcing financial information to be internationally affordable. In the open financial markets for speculation, especially if the protection of the small investor's rights and security in the face of sudden fluctuations will be possible if the institutions in this area take the necessary measures. The fact that information in financial tables, one of the most important sources of information the markets use, is accurate, accurate, and in line with the need, is very important for markets to function effectively. As you may recall, bankruptcy and accounting scandals in developed countries have led to the establishment of independent public oversight institutions in many countries from the beginning of the 2000s. For this purpose, the Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency is also established in our country. It must be ensured that the institution, which is intended to give its interests full, true, and comparable information to the need, is an independent guarantee of its practices, the measurement of financial information, and the evaluation of paintings. With these thoughts, I wish the institutions' budgets of 2018 were good for our country and our nation. I salute you proud members of the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0037par0398	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Members of parliament, as such, the speech of the National Movement Party on behalf of the group is over. We will now hear the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. First of all, Mr. Erdogan Erdogan Erk will speak. Here you go, Mr. Land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0038par0405	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. I'm not going to go into the finances of the budget. The heart wants us to give more of this country's youth, more of its sport, more of its resources. But I'd like to tell you what's missing. And while I'm saying it, I think it's a chance for Turkish sports that the Minister came from amateur clubs, that he was president of the federation. I hope it's not this period that we should consider what we've said before on these platforms, but it's not taken into account, after we've been told by Mr. President, after we've done the damage. My dear friends, we have expressed doping in this country, we have expressed the problems of foreign recruitment athletes in this country, we have repeatedly expressed from this platform the error of the arena of status names, and we have expressed that the name of the founder of this country, the Great Leader Ataturk, was wrong to be removed and turned into the arenas, but whatever wisdom we have said has not been taken into account, but after Mr. President told us, the arenas have gone out in a hurry. So, the arenas are gone and what's in its place? Friends, when the arenas went away, we wished that the name of Ataturk would return to its place, but it did not; it became the city of Bursa, Antalya Ataturk Stadium, Antalya Stadium, Afyon Ataturk Stadium, Uşttepe Stadium, Konya Ataturk Stadium. I mean, I don't really understand the logic under here. If we can't keep our past, if we can't honor our values in the past, it won't be our future. We must honor everyone who serves this country. Like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I regret the loss of the name of the leader who fought so hard for independence, freedom, freedom, freedom, and the reading of the oppressor. We followed him in his presentation in Plan and Budget, and they said: "The number of licensed athletes has gone up to 8 million." When they got 800,000, it went up to 8 million. We were very happy about it, so we would be happy to have an increase of 10 to 1. Well, is there any success at the same rate? No success at the same rate. When you look at success, there used to be a third-world national team, and now there's a national team that can't even stay for the playoffs. I'll tell you another very painful example: since 2011, Syria has not been able to train in its own country, the Syrian national team stays for the playoffs, but the Turkish national team has not been able to stay for the playoffs. There were 12 Giant Mans, 12 Giant Mans couldn't leave the group. The filet had Sultans, the Sultans of Filet have no idea what's going on. Turkey had weightlifts and world pride, the Naim Süleymanites, Halil Happys, friends between banned federations today. Why? He's on the list of banned members of the Halter Federation because he's doped up. Some athletes used to be banned from drugs, but now you see our federations are banned. This is one of Turkey's biggest challenges. My friends from the AK PARTY said they had a large share in the budget, and they talked about the success of the sport, the beauty of the stats. Guys, it's not about those stats, it's about your kids you're gonna compete with at those stadiums. If you can't compete with your children, if the athletes you bring in there are competing with harvests or big transfers, there's a problem there, that's one. I'll make a second point. Minister, I'm asking you specifically, the stats must be multi-purpose. I mean, stats shouldn't be stadiums that only play 17 games a year, which are used 17 days a 365 days. We're not that rich a country. You'll do the stadiums for a lot of purposes, there'll be training, where the students will come and train in sports, but apparently, the wrong perception is that we've done standards. With the stadiums, with the concrete, the Turkish sport is not developed, you can't improve Turkish youth with concrete. Look at the spot that came in today. One of the biggest problems of Turkish youth is amateur leagues. Mr. Secretary, you're from the Federation of Amateur Clubs. There's 6,000 amateur sports federations, all of which are miserable, and they're about to be locked out. There's no teacher support, no funding, the federations look at them as stepchildren. Why? Because there are 250 members of the federation, 10 representations of 6,000 amateur clubs, 10 members. On the other hand, there are so many members of a team in the Super League. Why bother with amateur clubs? There's another problem with amateur clubs. The municipalities they're taxing are taking away their neighborhood. It's not enough to take away the territory, they're building sports clubs, professional clubs, with their taxes in the area. Friends, the job of municipalities is to serve the youth in that neighborhood, not to team up in the Super League. They team up in the Super League, they spend the taxes they collect from that area on transfers, which is not enough, they cut off Turkish teenagers growing up in that area, so we destroy our youth with municipalities. It's pathetic in the Federation. We're talking about success in Turkish sports. Guys, we're talking about success in Turkish sports, but we've entrusted Turkish sports to the pickings. I mean, look, Angel Hu, Ahmet Li, Bora Vang, Cem Zeng, Smurf He in table tennis. Who are they? These are Turkish national table tennis players. So, is there a Turk, Mr. Minister? No. Then who did you hand over athletics to? Africans. We have made Amos Kibitok, and Aras Rock, and Mary Mirriam Mayio, and We have made Stanley Kiprotich, and Ali Kaya, and Vivian Jemutai, and Jasmine Can. Friends, such Turkish sports don't go anywhere, and you can't talk about success. So you're telling me that Turkish sports is successful after that. Do you guys know what a report card is for success? It's the Olympics. So let's not fool ourselves with the organizations of three municipalities here. Make these kinds of organizations, but that's not our measurement of success. Look, there are 11 medals in the Olympics, 2004, seven in 2008, one doped, and gone. There are four in 2012, three in doping, and he's gone, and there's only one left. There are eight at the 2016 Rio Olympics, and I don't know how much doping it will take. So I'm asking you, is it a success for an entire Turkey athlete with 8 million licensed athletes to receive 1 medal? Friends, when we can't keep an eye on these young people, youth moves both ways; one of them is synthetic drugs. Turkey has become a synthetic drug paradise. These children are the children of all of us, all of us in this hall. There are 1,300,000 Turkish teenagers using synthetic drugs because you don't have enough of those sports under your wing, training...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0039par0419	Where are those numbers from?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0038par0420	If you look, you'll find out. Do you guys know how long it's been since Bonzai? $5.00. You're doing the AMATEM. I see you've noticed the problem yourself, thank you. I also think it's right that you're doing the AMATEM. I respect the release of our young people. The number of AMAMAMEM is now in the 60s and is increasing rapidly, yes, but this is not the solution. Solution: Taking care of these young ones in their nursery, not the AMATEM channel. Another thing -- Mr. Saffet told me before me -- is that we gave the young to gambling. There is no access to education, Wikipedia, in this country, but access to casinos is free and gambling the Turkish youth... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're seeing a $50 billion runt.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0040par0425	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Earth, complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0038par0426	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to finish my time quickly. There are 12 urgent clauses, and I'll give them to you in writing, if I may, Mr. President. 1) Gather sports immediately. 2) Review the Federations. Turkish youth is too important to let the federations enjoy it. You can call the federations autonomous. Then I'll find it wrong for the Department of Sports to see so many failures and not seize the federations. Federations are trapped between 150 and 300 delegates from time to time, like their father's farms, you, me, our boy playing, that's no way to succeed in Turkish sports. The development of Turkish sports begins in kindergarten, with screenings of the young of this country's youth in a clean fitness. I have 12 items for you here, and I'll present it to you. The young men of this country are all of us. I'm telling you, no matter what step you take in sports, in every positive step, we're behind you as the Republican People's Party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As the Republican People's Party, we don't divide parties because this youth is all of us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0041par0434	Thank you, Mr. Earth. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the Hatay MP, Mr. Hilmi Maker, will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Maker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0042par0439	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of Sports General Directorate. I salute you, High Council, and all our citizens who are watching us on the screen with love and respect. Before we begin with my words, of course, we think of what happened just a few days ago, because we called it "sport. " I'd like to mention an assessment and analogy of former athlete and current football commentator Ridvan Dilmen. I'd like to remind Mr. Dilmen of something. It is not the park that makes the Sea traveler, but his daringness, his heart, his consciousness, his courage, his knowledge, and his righteousness.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0043par0443	Then why did you hang him? You did.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0042par0444	I'll tell you about it. I'll also take your word for it. First of all, to be near the oppressed people is to pay them a price; to be with the Palestinian people in Palestine with his heart, with his gun at the right time; to slap the American soldiers in the sea without fear of those who take the giblah; to act against those who fill our country with American bases when it comes to it. No one's ever dealt with our values with the imperialists.I don't want him to equate the Palestinian case with those who said "x") with those who spent millions of dollars trying to connect with Israel to the Jewish lobby for $20 million. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, whose name has been changed at various times, although the first foundation was founded in 1922 by the Sports General Directorate, which was established as an institutional institution in 1938. The purpose of the establishment is to implement the principle of sports that Turkish citizens of all ages will develop body and mental health, which is part of Article 59 of the Constitution. However, with the AKP's power, the state leaves its responsibility in this area step by step. Recently, he's been going for a furia, and the county departments are handing over the facilities they own to a federation. Turkey's capital no longer has a gym, an athletic field, where poor children can exercise for free. In many counties, this and many other facilities have been transferred to federations, so the age of free use of sports facilities has ended, unfortunately, because federations are being paid for, and because they are independent, they cannot be sanctioned by the Sports General Directorate. This is clearly against Article 59 of the Constitution. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, you can't pass without referring to the destruction of AKP's passion to be a member of the state, as has been done by all state institutions. This institution has not had an upgrade exam in ten years. It's practically impossible for employees to plan careers for their future. If you're no longer from the AKP, you can't even be chief of this institution. The court has repeatedly blocked the way for progress in the field without a test, but the government, which ignores the decisions of the State Department, has always been around the law. When he failed, he appointed all of the staff who served in many titles, including the district, youth services and sports directorates and branch offices, to the investigative staff of Bags Act 6639, which changed the organization's structure, and 638. Today, hundreds of district managers have been forced to serve only as ATM officers in a position that has been thrown out. So, what's replaced? Instead, youth services and sports district managers, youth centre managers and dorm managers will be appointed by State Officers Act 657 for each staff at one time from those carrying terms of service and education. The provision of the education clause has been issued to prevent untested increase. For years, the staff who served as chiefs were left in their positions, while three or four years of officers suddenly took a position over their chief. That's fine, but it wasn't enough, because all the imams and specialist sergeants brought in from outside the agency were brought in and given the title. The agency's original staff remained humbled. Every time they open their mouths, I'd like to ask the authority who says, "What is it if this is not the right to serve?" The General Director's office, which does not limit the distribution of titles to the partisans, is constantly disbanding the staff of the Federation's secretary general to serve in independent sports federations. I'd like to ask: on what authority do you appoint general secretary to independent sports federations? Don't you know that the Federation does not employ the general secretaries you send, but assigns general secretary on the outside with high salaries? What's more, don't you know that court inspectors have been warning you for ten years about the illegality of assigning officers to independent sports feders? And yet what right do you have to destroy the public by handing out a honey staff to your followers? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, are not limited to that. The children of staff serving in the ministry's central service are granted the right of quota at the Credit and Housing Institution, while the children of the staff in the rural community are exempted from it. There's no telling where justice is, where justice is. In my speech, I use the term non-independent sports federations, but the federations are not independent. Almost all Federations are impossible to survive without government revenues. Without the budget provided by the Sports Toto Agency, almost no federation will survive. Sports Toto Agency's transfer of funds to the federations in exchange for advertising agreements is a fraud against the law to fund federations from the public, so don't let anyone fool anyone. This transfer of funds and funding from the General Directorate's sports clubs are also the key to the federation elections. I mean, it's the government that gives the money, I'm afraid. Because of this, the Ministry is the head of the federation, whether it is bureaucrats or those close to power. Now, I'd like to ask you: how does your ministry bureaucrat contribute to this branch, especially when there are many experienced trainers in the weightlifting division, especially Halil Happy, who have spent their lives in this major? I think the best Halter Federation community and Federation President know that you've offended a champion athlete like Naim Süleymanoglu, who we've lost in the last few days. To keep the Federation in your hands, you clearly violated the Court's decision in the Federation elections. He also said that your lack of law should be judged. The Wrestling Federation has followed the cancellation of its elections, the cancellation of the Gymnastic Federation elections. It seems certain that the election of the other remaining federations will be cancelled by court order. As long as you're playing around, the law comes and goes. So I invite you to withdraw your hand from the federation, so that I don't bring politics into the sport. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0044par0456	Thank you, Your Creator. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, they will now speak for Mr. Niyazi Nefi Kara, MP of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Kara. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0045par0461	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the budget of 2018, of the High Education Loan and Homes Association. I salute the High Council. First of all, I wish Mr. Secretary the best of his first budget. We also expect that our college students will follow a decisive attitude to address housing and scholarship problems. When we call it the Credit Centre, we all first think of the public dorms where college students will stay. In particular, when the university exams are announced, there are no lawmakers who are not asked for dorms. We're all wanted by our young people for days, a hope. And why is that? Because the number of universities opened, the number of university students, and the number of public dorms and bed capacity are highly disproportionate. In the last 15 years, the number of universities has increased by 2.5 times, and the number of students has increased by 3.5 times. Within 15 years, of course, the capacity for dorms and beds has increased. According to the Minister's budget presentation in the Commission, the total number of beds in 77 counties and 59 districts reached 182,258 beds in a total of 190 cities at the end of 2002, as of 8 November 2017, 81 counties, 242 districts and 623,568 beds in a total of 757 dorms in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. So, how many students are currently studying at the university? Over 7 million. According to the National Ministry of Education, there are 112,423 students in 2,160 dorms owned by associations and foundations. The universities also have around 50,000 beds on their own campus, which do not belong to private or Credit Homes. When we look at it, for 7 million college students, these numbers can only reach 800,000, so among college students, the housing rate is 10%. The number is 24 per cent in the UK, while the European average is 18 per cent. We're expecting the Minister to raise that rate, and we believe he's going to take his money from the Finance Minister next to him. Unfortunately, the next picture reveals that because of the disproportionateness between dorms and student numbers, the most important problem of our high - school students is the housing problem. What's the solution to this problem? The AKP condemns our young people to Christian homes and homes because of lack of power, Credit and Homes. We have warned you many times, but we will not know until you are alive. What evil have we seen? You saw the July 15th treacherous coup attempt to condemn our young ones to congregations in the sense of the country under which you continue. You have closed the 821 homes you claim to belong to construction, but we pay the national price. We've always said that communities and cults can't be the government's solution partners, they shouldn't be. If the Constitution states that we are a social state and the right to education is guaranteed as constitutional rights, you must prevent our young and students from being condemned to congregation and sectarian structures. On November 8, 2017, when your budget was discussed in the Commission, a regulation published in the Official Gazette was announced by the Council of Ministers that there would be support for feeding and housing at higher education dorms as a foundation for tax exemptions and for public benefit by the Council of Ministers, so you set aside a new budget for these foundations. So, which foundations? Ensar, TURGAV, TUGVA. These funds will be transferred from the KYK budget. Anyway, when you go to Google and type in the dorms, it comes out as sponsored by TUGEV and TUGVA. You have set a criteria for implementing this regulation, and we will make it a priority in the absence of KYK dorms. So instead of building dorms, the government will leave it to the congregations and cults again. To mention how high the prices of private dorms are for students who can't stay in a KYK dorm, who don't choose to stay in a community or a cult home, the average is 1,500 lira. How will a family who can't afford these fees, who live on minimum wage, get their child to read? The housing service should be given to all of our young people who study in college under equal conditions and under state security. Here's to scholarships and loans. According to the Commission, 1,235,898 students are granted student loans and 400,288 students are granted scholarships in 2017. The Court states that these loans do not pay back, but these student loans and scholarships also need to be upgraded, at least to pay for their dorm fees.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0046par0470	We're giving you more.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0045par0471	If education is invested in dorms... but unfortunately, the government prefers to invest in prisons for universities, schools or students rather than in dorms.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0046par0473	Oh, let it be, was there a dorm in our day, or was the dorm being built in Turkey? That's how twisted it is.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0045par0474	If you continue to build prisons instead of dorms... how many times have I told you from here, I've told the Minister, construction of prisons to the heart of tourism in Manavgat Ilıca?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0046par0475	We built 10 times as many dorms as you do. We've built 10 times as many dorms in the history of the Republic, and look at what you're talking about!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0045par0476	Mr. Secretary, instead of giving the Justice Department investment money for this, let's build a school, fairground, dorm. I'll say this one more time: there is no such investment in Manavgat. There's no prison investment in tourism. We've said it a thousand times, the Manavgats are uncomfortable with it. I mean, that can't happen. Our young people are doomed to drugs. There are fellow lawmakers involved in this, in power, but you can't prevent it. So let's build enough dorms for the kids to stay in, so we can open up more sports spaces, because if you do, that's the only way we're going to get in front of it. When you invest in education and sports, you get ahead of the drugs, then you get rid of them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, on the day your institution's budget was discussed, you mentioned a drug deal in the Commission. We've made our suggestions. As I finish my words, I'd like to say that when we come to power, all of our projects will be ready to solve the dorm problem within a year. We're not bringing you any charges because you just got the assignment. Before that, the Minister of Sports said: "We are going to build a dorm for students on all campuses in a year." Where is Hani?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0047par0482	We're doing it, honey.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0048par0483	It's done, it's done. Get over it. Yeah, you can't leave, it's a dead end for you, a dead end! Don't go down that road!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0049par0484	You tell us, we're listening, please tell us.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0050par0485	We're counting on you to do it. If you don't, after a year, when we're in power...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0048par0486	It's not gonna happen, it's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0050par0487	...as the People's Party of the Republic, we will build a home for the children of the people in the power of the people. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0051par0490	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0052par0491	Your target is 25 plus 1. Can you get 50 plus 1?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0050par0492	We'll get it, we'll get it, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0053par0493	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0054par0494	Here you go, Mr. Maker.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0055par0495	What did your President-General say? ▪ 25 plus 1 ▪ The barem in Turkey is 50 plus 1.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0056par0496	We'll get it, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0054par0497	Wait a minute, Mr. Lawmakers, I'm listening to Mr. Maker. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0057par0499	Mr. President, when I was just speaking to Mr. Gezmiş, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you hung him. He said, "You've been harassing our party." If you'll excuse me, I'd like to exercise my right to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0058par0500	You don't take promises of bullying in a speech, Mr. President. He's picking on the stand, we can't pick on him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0059par0501	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0060par0502	Wait... that's not what I heard.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0058par0503	Yeah... did you hear that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0060par0504	I didn't hear that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0061par0505	You should look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0060par0506	Let's look at the records, but I didn't hear anything like that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0062par0507	You don't work when you're told what to say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0063par0508	Let's tell him, did you tell him? Let's ask him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0064par0509	I heard it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0065par0510	Let's take a look at the transcripts, and then we'll decide.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0066par0511	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0067par0512	But maybe Mr. Bulent will tell you himself.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit01spe0065par0513	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0065par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0068par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0065par0006	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0068par0007	Mr. President, you said you'd look at the transcripts. Have you looked at it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0065par0008	The transcripts aren't here yet, so...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0069par0009	But Mr. Bulent agrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0065par0010	Let me give you a minute to explain. Here you go, Mr. Maker.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0070par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we didn't defend, defend, or defend any executions today, as we did yesterday. And we're not behind the mistake of that period. I'd like to remind you of a few things: of course, 28 CHP people voted for the execution, but all the MPs there made preparations to enter the Republican Trust Party at the time and started working against the party. So 48 people voted no, 47 of whom were Republican People's Party, one MP of the Workers' Party of Turkey, and more importantly, Ismet Inönu, the head of the period and General Secretary-General Bkent Ecevit voted no, so this is the party's institutional vote. This is a promise I took as a reminder that we represented the tradition of those who said no that day. All those who voted were eventually eliminated from the Republican People's Party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On that day the transitional government of the period said, "Three of you, three of us, three of them," and acted out of vengeance. He says once again that we have always had the right attitude towards such executions, that we have all the values that the seas have created, the enthusiasm of defence, the enthusiasm of ownership, I want to express it from here once again.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0071par0021	Thank you, Your Creator.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0072par0022	Thank you, we're looking at it corporately. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0073par0054	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the Finance Ministry and the binding and relevant organisations on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. My dear friends, since 2011, I've been talking about the Finance Ministry and the budgets for connected and relevant institutions, and I've been talking about the Finance Ministry budget almost every year. I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. I thought I'd take a look at my past conversations -- this time -- and see what things I've criticized, mainly, what's changed this year. Believe me, I mean this very sincerely -- the criticisms I've done in my past talks are just as valid today, as they are today -- additionally, new criticism issues. So many of the things we've criticised have not become positive about the Finance Ministry, and unfortunately there's been an increase in our criticism. The thing is, I've found a difference, one forgets it in time: In our criticisms in the past, Mr. Finance Minister or Finance Ministry, the ruling members say: "All right, you're criticizing all of this, but the foreigners appreciate us. It's so then, the foreigners appreciate us before 2014. You know, after 2014, there's no appreciation, there's no appreciation, there's just appreciation, there's no criticism. In fact, now, lawmakers from the ruling ruling party are very clearly critical of the government. It needs to be criticised, it's all of us as legislatures, but as a result of these criticisms, the Finance Ministry, the government, the other ministries need to make the necessary corrections. Unfortunately, that's what's missing. So, what have I been doing since the past, and what have I been doing today? I'm not going to line them up like this, I'm just saying, one of them is about the taxpayers. The number of taxpayers doesn't grow in the Ministry of Finance. Still, the Finance Ministry's income tax-declared number of active taxpayers is under 2 million, 1 million 881K. In 2002, in the early 2000s, this 1 million was over 700,000, close to 1,800,000, and now it is. It won't go up. If there is an election in 2019, if it is not done early, but in 2019, there will be nearly 60 million voters with our voters abroad, so there will be 60 million voters aged 18 and older, and there will be 60 million voters. The income tax doesn't even amount to $2 million. Could there be such an anomaly? There's an anomaly here, isn't there? So there's a lot of potential, but the Treasury couldn't turn it into a taxpayer. Which we don't bring criticism about technology, and we know that the Finance Ministry is a ministry that is actually very good at technology, and there's no constraint in its budget, so the Finance Ministry can invest in whatever it wants, as the IRS, although there is no increase in the number of taxpayers. What are we talking about? There's been an abnormal increase in real estate capital ownership, since 353 per cent increased, there's a 353 per cent increase in their number of active taxpayers. So there's been an increase in those who make rent revenues, they're reportedly, but in other statements, the Ministry of Finance has been unable to realise this increase. Another issue is related to the OVP and the OVMP, the medium-term programme and the medium-term financial programme. The fact that this didn't come out on time, that there were a lot of mistakes in context, and I know that the Ministry of Finance has made an important contribution, so I'm saying it for him. We still have our reviews on the application of this. There's a back-up grant, a change of funds. Every year we criticize, the Finance Ministry unfortunately exploits budgetary rights, public budget rights and the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nations, exploiting the legislative body, and continues to do so. Although this year's budget has also been made legal changes -- despite some changes in the law and increased this authority -- this abuse continues. Fourth, we always gave out the tax pardons every year. Tax pardons are again on the agenda, and just last year, we got a tax pardon, and we repeated it three times, and we repeated the same pardon three times over and over again. Tax pardons are an issue that undermines the Ministry of Finance, and no one wants to pay taxes, and no one pays their taxes anyway. There's been some serious mistakes made at the Treasury Department, unfortunately, about that. How many times of forgiveness has come out, and we can't even count it anymore, and it creates expectations, and no one pays taxes because of that. Fifthly, there are problems with budget discipline and principles in which certain revenues and expenditures are excluded from the budget. We criticize it every year, and this year, in our opposition, we have this issue in detail, a very well-written, very important issue. A lot of funds are out of budget, unfortunately. Many expenditures, revenues, such as paying military, revenues from there are taken out of the budget, transferred to the treasury, but not included in the budget as income; there are many similar expenses being kept out of the budget in the same way. When we go into detail, there are many issues that have been audited by the Court on E ruler, which have been excluded from the control of Law No. 5018, which should surely be owned by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance should rather own himself with them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Sixth, we have criticism about the need for improvements in tax legislation and tax burdens. We said there should be improvements in tax legislation, almost every year, and the Ministry of Finance says you're right, we're doing it. The Ministry of Finance has even combined it a few times, combined it, brought it together, brought it in; we set up a subcommittee in the Plan and Budget Commission, started working, withdrew it; then it was brought back to this kind of work, and then it retreated. That kind of work doesn't exist right now. If I ask him now, the Minister of Finance will say: "We're bringing him in, we'll bring him in as soon as possible. He won't bring him back, and I know very well from here that he won't, and I know very well that he won't, because of the failure to bring him in, because of the fact that the Treasury doesn't know what he's doing, because there's no strategy for motor vehicles this year. They said we've reduced 40 percent to 25 percent, but that's 37.5%; if you look at the most used car segment in the market, so is he. The company tax has been increased by 10 per cent. All of this, you know, because there's no strategy around, and we're going to lower the revenue tax, and we're going to lower it to a more reasonable level. And it's Mr. Finance Minister who says, "We're going to lower it, we're going to lower it. We're going to reduce it. There is the abnormal weight of indirect taxes, taxing expenditures, and non-taxing gains. You know, the indirect taxes are at our weight, close to 70 percent, in that area, and we're taxing spending, not profit. Taxation of spending creates a great injustice in taxes. Because when you get up in the morning, you press the power switch, you turn on the tap; they're all tax, you're all riding on the transport, you're taxing, but the profits aren't taxed in the same way. Untaxed income leads to a major tax injustice. Unfortunately, we're champions in the OECD. This is about control. It was one of the most successful institutions in the Republic, the Board of Accounting Experts, a very successful Ottoman institution, the Finance Review Committee; they were removed, unfortunately, these successful institutions were removed. The control unit established in their place, unfortunately, has a positive effect on the taxpayers in a market as effective as in the past, so it's not the institutions that are afraid of it anymore. I also have data on the latest 2016, which the Finance Minister no longer explains because it is not the data to be explained. In 2016, 6,861 people were examined, 150 million taxed; of course, they're funny numbers. But what's important is that the Ministry of Finance -- which is all over the world, which is so in Turkey -- is effective through control elements, that it's effective through its boards, that it doesn't, that it doesn't, and unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance doesn't have that kind of weight, that the problem is there. I mean, it's not just about control, because in general, inspection committees have been removed in Turkey, there's no control; there's a Turkey open to all kinds of corruption. We can't even figure out how much corruption is, who it's done by now, but we're in this situation, unfortunately, in the matter of control.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0075par0070	Do we live in another country?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0071	Now the subject of tax pardons is separate, the grant of wealth, the peace of existence. And we've had some criticisms about them. For example, in the past, there's been something like peace of existence, like a grant of wealth. I remember at that time about 70 billion, there was a statement made, 10 billion made, 10 billion brought in, over 10 billion - I think it was three hundred - I think it was - $279 million taxed. Yeah, would the Treasury do that? For $279 million, the Ministry of Finance has been discredited. Now, there's one more entity peace brought in last time. How many people have made statements, how much money has come, how many are there; the Minister of Finance can't make a statement about it. If you can't do it, then don't take it off. Is this the cheap Ministry of Finance? Is this government that cheap? You can't explain it, you can't make the law, you don't know the consequences, you can't explain the consequences. What kind of business?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0075par0073	Come on, don't be so hard on the ministry you belong to.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0074	Yeah, I grew up there, it's my stove, but I'm ashamed that the ministry that I belong to will end up like this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0075par0076	Don't be shy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0077	I'm ashamed, I'm afraid. The Ministry of Finance is the most effective ministry, the Ministry of State, does it for the government; indeed, it is, and I sincerely express it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0075par0078	We're doing this for the government.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0079	The Ministry of Finance shows the power of the state, it'll take effect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0075par0080	The government has power.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0081	Is this what the Treasury Department would look like? Is that how it's done, Ministry of Finance? That's why I'm already talking out loud like this, not as an opposition MP, Mr. Secretary. You need to feel the same pain, the same pain. I wouldn't be so worried if you weren't there and someone else was out there. As someone who knows, as someone who grew up in the same furnaces, you should understand them better, that's the problem. It's about the Court reports. Court reports are important. Court inspection is very important. The inspection of Turkey's Grand National Assembly on the executive body is crucial. We criticize this every year; there is no standard for moving or financial tables about their amortisms. The Ministry of Finance is short on this, and the Finance Ministry needs to support it, but unfortunately, we still have our reviews on this issue. There's a savings issue in the budget. Dear friends, we're supposed to be saving money this year. Our Prime Minister explained -- when the first came -- during the budget presentation, there will be no more pomp. He said. Do You Recall? A few years ago, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, Prime Minister of the AK PARTI government, who entered the election as President, said he was one of his first acts, and in his first example of saving -- not joking, but talking -- do you remember how he explained the plaque savings? In a paragraph like this, they have sentences, a paragraph; savings in plaques. Savings are forgotten, and not saving on the plaque, of course they're still going on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0076par0084	It was the work of Canaan's Universe, and the plaque was given. They were giving it to those who didn't deserve it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0085	Yeah, they give themselves plaques, that's right. This year's budget is supposed to be a savings budget; there's an 18 per cent increase; there's a overall increase in inflation. You're looking at budget pencils, no savings, on the contrary, there's a rise in spending, there's a rise in taxes, there's a rise in raises. God willing, how will this budget be implemented, how will this budget be established, and I already can't predict our future, the end of this year. There's an additional budget issue, in a sense, the Finance of the budget rights. You know, there should be an additional budget this year. Unfortunately, the Finance Ministry didn't make it happen, so the bag added a clause to the law, which, unfortunately, is the price of the public's budget. As he has done in the past years, he has made the same mistake this year, just as he did not make the additional budget for subsidizing funds. Time flies, I didn't realize. There were 25 headlines in the Tenth Annual Development Plan on Transformation Programs. It began at -- from 2014, and the money was separated; and they were out of the question, and you never see it, and we forgot it. There's also a complete failure in the off-the-book economy. What is our off-the-book economy according to the new series? In the past, we have reduced from 32 percent to 26.8 percent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I can have it for a while longer, I will.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0077par0093	I'll give you an extra minute, Mr. Kusuðlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0074par0095	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance has failed in this off-the-book economy. We have an off-the-book economy right now, and he doesn't know it. This issue of bribery and corruption is the subject of the Ministry of Finance, an issue that OECD will have to take care of. Look, the FATF has a recommendation for people with political influence, people with political influence, who are adopted by the FATF to fight corruption and bribery. Politically influential people, politicians and high bureaucrats, military and civilian, all money comings and goings on these things should be reported to MASAK. The regulations adopted, which the Council of Ministers has changed in this regard three times, have not yet made the arrangement on this issue in recent years, and the money regarding politicians has not been enforcing their arrivals. This is what should be the biggest shame of the Ministry of Finance, I'm afraid. It does not take into its regulations; it does not adopt the principle adopted by FATF, number 12. That's good advice. The Entity Fund, dear friends...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0078par0099	What regulations? What regulations?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0079par0100	No. 12 of the FATF. That's good advice.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0080par0101	Well, Mr. Kuyoglu, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0081par0103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm afraid this island of Man didn't do its part in matters such as Malta documents. There are a lot of other issues, but I would like to ask you very briefly about the Public Contractor's Office: how much did they make under 200 billion dollars -- how many of those six principles have been carried out, if the Minister of Finance can answer, if he can give me equal treatment, credibility, public control, all of these principles? I'm afraid the privatisation issue is very negative. We need all the privatized institutions today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0082par0109	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, they will speak for Mr. Kamil Okyay Sindır. Here you go, Mr. Lander. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes, Your Honor.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0083par0114	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Public Loan and Privatisation Administration of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018. I salute our great nation and the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the Public Contraction Law, which I have sworn on, has been adopted as the legal basis of the Public Contraction Foundation, has been changed 46 times since the day it has been adopted, reducing exceptions, activating audits and removing regulations against the European Union's legislation, while on the contrary, the number of exception regulatory clauses have been increased from seven to 21 degrees, and the Public Contract Authority has been even more passive. As is known, competition is perhaps the most important of the basic principles of the public tender system, which is included in Article 5 of the Public Contraction Act. Competitiveness principle says that the participation of as many public tenders as possible is essential, and therefore the best price for the state's needs is to be met. However, the tenders between the recent non-proclaimed negotiation tenders and the tenders between certain volunteers have begun to be preferred rather than the open bidding process. As a result, about 20 per cent more money is spent than the government's vault. According to the 2016 statistics, more than 27 per cent of public purchases were made by negotiating or willing tenders, which amounted to about $30.3 billion. In addition, city hospitals, such as the public-private cooperation projects, which are defined as private law in the figures mentioned here, and are not covered and controlled by the Public Relations Agency, TMSF, development agencies, Turkey Investment Support Agency, Asset Fund, but are not covered as an exception to the law. Members of parliament, the Public Contractorship is an independent regulator and auditory institution. As the institution and the board's executive staff are removed from office assignments based on merit, the possibility of effective, efficient and quality inspections is also, unfortunately, disappearing. As it is today, our bidding system is dying. It is more important and essential to make the tender system more competitive, more transparent, more efficient and more efficient than taking more taxes to correct public finances and looking into citizens' pockets. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk a little bit about the issue of city hospitals, especially the privatisation of public-private partnership, and the financing of investment and the angles of public supervision. 31 city hospitals are already on the agenda for public-private partnership projects and the contracts of 21 have been signed. Under the third joke of Article 3 (5) of Law No. 6428 in public-special partnership project investments, it is natural that the tenders should be made between the willing and the willing, or the bargaining method, in accordance with the article 5) of any of the tender procedures. That means: I bid what I want and I do what I want with what I want. See how public-private partnership works in urban hospitals projects: after the state has done its feasibility and other preliminary preparations, it gives private companies, a trade secret, and outside the scope of the CED, one of the flexible tenders I just described to build this project. At the same time, the government is handing over the land of treasure as a construction site. These companies, which need foreign loans, have to do at least 20 per cent of the project with their own resources, but because it requires huge financing, they are guaranteed treasure for the loan they will need for additional financing, and if they fail to pay, the treasure is taking over their debt. In addition, companies are given tax cuts, exemptions, discounts on the SGO bonuses and so on. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. The state rents these hospitals, which are built by private companies for 25 years on average, and that's not enough, and it guarantees 70 per cent of it. The construction size of hospitals per bed -- at least twice as large as the state's investments -- is also a clear indicator of waste and public harm, that investment can be repaid with two to four years' rent costs paid to the company, so it can pay itself back. In the meantime, companies can operate the parking lot, the cafeteria, the restaurant, the hotel and so on, even the labs, the imaging centers and so on, and the government also buys services from companies in these areas. Although it is already a transparency commercial secret, we can say that in 14 hospital projects, where we can only have information and are completed, the state is subject to a total of $69 billion in rent -- about 50 billion in rent for twenty-five years, and a total of $19 billion in service. I would like to point out that this obligation is not included in the Public Contractory Reports because they are subject to private law without subject to public tenders and Court supervision, and that it is nothing more than the right of an unfavoured orphan than to be fed to non-existent corporations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask my sincerest feelings: What is this order called? I'll tell you even if I don't have a tongue. This is a robbery order. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as defined in our party programme as the Republican People's Party, privatisation should not be a goal. In particular in the last 15 years, I would like to point out that we are strongly opposed to the process of privatisation of our national industry, of shutting down public enterprises, and of unprincipled privatisation of public property in the last 15 years. Public economic initiatives have made significant contributions from the past to today, to the deepening of democracy in our country, to the root of industrialisation, to the boosting of economic and social development, to improving revenue distribution, to reducing inter-regional imbalances, but they have been seriously lost in industrialization, the real sectors and public economy, as a result of policies exclusioning the real sectors and public economy, to the President of the Privatisation Administration, to the development of their technologies, to the need for maintenance and renovation investments, and to serious losses in their activities, and they are being sold at the expense and at the expense. In particular, the most basic public enterprises that have produced strategic goods and public benefit services in our country over the past 20 years, the privatisation of factories, factories, the most profitable and strategicly qualified industrial institutions without the national interests and the needs of the national industry, without the protection of employees' rights and additional employment conditions, without regard to foreign or domestic buyers, have been the biggest blow to our economy, without any expectation of technological construction, maintenance, modernisation or expansion investments. According to the data of the Privatisation Administration's President, in the AK PARTI administration, our public assets were sold for $63.2 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need a minute. It's almost over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0084par0128	I'll give you an extra minute, Mr. Fit.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0083par0129	On the other hand, let us not forget that Turkish TELEKOM, TUPRAS, PETKIM, TEKEL cigarette companies, liquor companies, and so on have been sold to foreigners. Now I'd like to ask, is this what being national and native is all about? Is it the handing over to foreigners the most strategic institutions that are in the government's jurisdiction and savings, the assets, even our national security? In the 2018 budget talk, Mr. Prime Minister mentioned that there is a budget that takes you to the center, but it seems that this budget is a budget that aims at our people, not at the center, but at national and domestic, not at the people, but at interest lobbyists and loan sharks. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0085par0133	Thank you, Your Honor. Thus ended the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. We will now listen to the speakers of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak first. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0086par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the Finance Ministry budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to explain 2018 Central Management Budget Bill in a language that our people will understand before we actually flood it with a lot of numbers. Now, for the budget of 2018, the AKP government has put a budget in front of us; it sums it up: I will spend 762 billion in the year 2018. So all the ministries, the government, they're going to make their own expenses, but they've put the burden on Mr. Finance Minister. Why is that? Because they need to find the source of 762 billion spending. Mr. Minister of Finance, let's try and find us this source. In fact, we have no doubt about Mr. Finance Minister's savings, experience, and experience. If the job is left to Mr. Finance Minister, we have no doubt that it will not only be the last 2017 budget, but it will do its best in 2018, because it is running. He's going abroad, he's trying to find investors to invest in Turkey, he's trying to convince them, he's encouraging the investor in the country. He's doing everything in his power to raise jobs and increase revenues. And he does, but Mr. Home Secretary won't allow it, he beats up a citizen on the street, gasses a walker, I don't know, bombing rocks, declaring off-limits zones. He's not content with it, he's a guardian of the court, the law, the law, the law, the law, the rule, and he's putting hundreds of thousands of people in prison. The National Minister of Defense is creating an almost war-like air of operations, drills and operations along the border. Now, why would a foreign investor come to Turkey, and why would foreign capital come? As it does not come, the capital in the country is trying to flee the country because there is neither a guarantee of justice nor ambiguity. There's only one thing left to do, Mr. Finance Minister, to create this resource, which means it has to be loaded somewhere to find the cost of these expenses. The only place he'll be loading is the employees, the 80 million poor people who work. He's gonna get it out of their pocket, how's he gonna get it? He'll get it with taxes. So, how much tax is he getting this year? It aims to collect 667 billion taxes. How's he gonna get that tax? He will receive 75-80 per cent of the tax from indirect taxes. So he's going to pay a worker $1,404 minimum wage, and he's going to have to return every item he buys, and then he's going to have to pay taxes to the Finance Ministry or this government again. I don't count the cuts they cut directly. Now, in this case, collect on the backs of the poor, the poor, the laborer, the peasant, the indirect taxes; not enough is enough for you to try to collect an additional 37 billion dollars in one stroke to create additional funds with a substance, as in the law passed over the year. So, of course, dear friends, we can't talk about tax justice, tax law. Now, what I'm counting on, especially when the security ministries are spending a lot of money, when their budgets are pretty high, for example, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Health, are bending their necks, and whatever they're given, they're spending that much. But in other words, the ministries, such as the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, can spend all the resources they want -- the despotic leadership of the government, the totalitarian administration -- in order to suppress the public. Now, of course, if you say there's a budget justice, budget law, equality in this budget, there isn't. When we look at this budget, this budget reveals the political, economic and social perspective of AKP power, a budget that determines the relationship between social classes and layers. It's not a budget that takes less than a few winners, takes more than a lot of winners, so it's not a budget that will transfer its resources to the needs of the poorest, lowest parts of society, and destroys the inter-class exploitation order. So this budget is entirely based on exploitation, which protects the interests of investors, landlords, capitalists. And when that happens, it's possible to say that this budget is an unfair budget, an illegal budget. Of course, as the People's Democratic Party and as a MP, it is impossible to say that such a budget represents our conscience, that we have a conscience in the budget, and that poor people, who are a large majority in Turkey, represent close to 90 per cent of the population, represent the conscience of employees, Mr. Secretary. It's a budget that protects the investor at all costs. See, there are three basic features of this budget: one is a budget built on security, defence and the concept of war. A second feature is a budget that protects the capital, the investor, the exploiter. A third feature is a religious budget that ignores different beliefs. Because in this budget, for example, outside the Sunni Islamic sect, there is no right to other Sunni Islamic sects and there is no right to other religions, so it is also a religious budget. You need to see these, or we're not interested in getting inside the numbers and getting this much money into this institution, this kind of money, this little transfer to this institution, or too much transfer. Look, I'm not the only one who claims this, what did Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek say in an explanation? We're going to save 17-18 billion Turkish liras an additional resource for the defence industry, for the Ministry of National Defense. There are two ways: what is one? We're going to get funding by borrowing, and the second is by taxing, creating new taxes, tax resources, which we're going to get from taxes. He said, "We've chosen the second path, and we're trying to create this resource through tax." It's a clear confession, a clear confession that this budget is a security budget. I think Mr. Mehmet Simsek has honestly demonstrated that this budget is a war budget. Look, for example, I'd like to give you a very simple example on a minimum wage: a minimum wage month, a month of continuous work, how much money he makes in full? $1,404.06, that's his net. And he spends that money within the month paying indirect taxes, such as VAT, OTV, or -- let's say, if he has, let's say he's got some kind of savings -- like a motor vehicle tax, so he doesn't spend all the $1,404 on his own needs. So, what does this one month-old minimum wage worker get the government? He works for a month, he gets $1,404. Look what it does to the government: 817.76 liras make money for the government. Assuming that there are 6 million minimum wage fees in Turkey, only minimum wage workers receive 5 billion per month in the state budget. A year's total is 60 billion, only minimum wage. So, what does the investor get? And think about the dollar billionaire, who puts money in the bank, deposits it on a dollar basis, collects interest on dollars, or takes interest on euros, so it's only tax on exchange interest. In exchange, he's rich in foreign currency, and he's making money on interest. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0087par0152	Let me give you a minute. You requested it. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0086par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. So without any work, without any risk, he makes money. Well, if that's the case, then increase the minimum wage fee. If the state's minimum wage is $1,404 and it's making $817, the minimum wage will be doubled, for example, if it's increased to over 2,500 liras, it'll also make money for the state at that rate. So the more you increase the field of employment, the more you increase the employment field for production, the more naturally the share of the government, the budget will increase. But you're not doing that, you're reducing investments, you're reducing jobs, you're trying to capitalize. Every day you beat up the nation, the citizen, the citizen, you undermine justice, you perform custody, you bomb the mountains, the existing capital escapes to safety, it flees abroad. So we have 80 million citizens who pay the price. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0088par0158	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, second, Istanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0089par0162	Conscientious...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0163	I'll speak with conscience.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0088par0164	Mr. Paylan, I thought you were smiling at me. You were smiling at the Minister. You have ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, we're talking about the Finance Ministry budget. What does the Treasury Department do, friends, what does it do? Our Minister of Finance doesn't do anything, he doesn't work at all. You know what? He collects taxes over consumption, citizens go to gas stations, buy cigarettes, turn on the tap in the house, press the electric button, the Finance Minister's account drops money, trink coins drop.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0091par0169	What a nice system.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0170	What a beautiful, beautiful system. He collects taxes on consumption, collects taxes. Well, guys, if it wasn't like this, it would be great, you know how it would be? If all of our incomes were equal, there wouldn't be a problem, but look, 1 percent of society gets 25 percent of the income, see, I'll say it again.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0092par0172	There's something new to say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0173	Thomas Piketty explained, you've seen the new data, one percent of the society is taking 25 percent of the illegitimate domestic product. And what does the poorest 50% get out of that? The poorest, I say 50 percent, is 14 percent of the income, the friends will get 1.24 percent, the poorest of the 50 percent. After that, we'll all be equal in taxes, we'll give taxes over consumption, and we'll be equal. This is the Finance Minister's account. Look, how does it work in democracies? In democracies, all citizens are afraid of finance management, they tremble. There is an IRS in America, the richest of the IRS and the poorest of them both fear, so they either pay their taxes willingly or by force, according to their income. There are tax companies in Europe, these are autonomous institutions. Even if it's not autonomous, it's the corporations that can walk on all kinds of revenues, on wealth, on income, on taxes. But look, what's our Treasury doing? He sits in his seat, collects taxes on consumers, and then he says: I collect taxes, my friend. So what did I do? But social justice? Friends, according to our Constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a social law state, but our finances are not a social finance ministry because they don't collect taxes based on wealth and income. After that, he says: "Economy has grown and grown. Let us go together, friends, to this Kızılay. Minister of Finance, come, let's go together to this Kızılay. Let's go and see the tradesmen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0092par0174	I go every day, can you go?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0175	I don't do trades. My business has gone backwards. He says. The Minister of Finance says: "Economy has grown 11 per cent." I ask, "Who has grown up?" It's obvious who's growing; a small part of the financial sector, some rich people, that one percent of the population is growing. Look, you know, your ally contractors, they're getting bigger by 1%. The large majority of them are moaning under debts and taxes, my friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0093par0176	Happiness cannot be changed by money.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0177	Once again, what does a dear friend do to the elephant? The vast majority of taxes are from indirect taxes, tax revenue, and wealth. Look, our state minister in charge of the economy, our Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek, has been saying that we're going to get the Rant tax for years. He can't take it. Why? He doesn't want a president; the Finance Minister is in the way, no taxes on large revenues through the rants. And you know what the greatest power of a finance is? Where did you find it? Where did you find it? Can you ask, Mr. Secretary? You go, you look at a man's tax plate, he pays a tax of $10,000, and the next thing you know, he's riding a $2 million Mercedes. Ten thousand liras in taxes, two million in Mercedes. I haven't yet seen a Minister of Finance come out and ask me, friend, how do you ride a Mercedes of 2 million? Look, there were some documents recently: Panaman documents came out last year, Malta documents came out two months ago, and recently Man documents came out. Now, the debate was this big: the money went and came, and it didn't go there, and it was transferred to banks in the country...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0181	▪ Is it important that he should come?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0182	It's been discussed. But what did the Prime Minister say? Friend, my children are trading. True, he can, but must he do it in tax gardens? That's another question. Political ethics and political morality. Or about the relatives of Mr. President... look, about Man's documents, friends, the money came in, he went away, he didn't come in, he moved into the country... the question is, the question is, the Prime Minister of Finance should ask: Ya Ziya Ilgen is a retired teacher. How much does a teacher get paid, fellas?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0184	He's been in business for 15 years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0185	Like Ziya Ilgen, a teacher receives 3,000 liras, see, he receives 3,000 liras. That's $36,000 a year.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0186	Mr. Paylan, he's been a national dealer for 15 years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0090par0187	Come on, he's worked for 25 years, that's $1 million, guys.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0095par0188	Congressmans, please, we're listening to the speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0189	Well, he's wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0095par0190	You'll answer me later. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0096par0191	So the salary he can get for teaching his whole life is $1 million. Look, $1 million. If the whole teaching life hadn't spent any money, it would've cost a million liras.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0192	Mr. Paylan is not a teacher, he's a merchant.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0096par0193	Mr. Ziya Ilgen... 15 million liras have been transferred from one place to another. They say: "Ticari secret." What should our Minister of Finance do now? Mr. Ziya Ilgen, come here -- a writer -- where did you get this 15 million lira, my friend? Did you ask, Mr. Finance Minister? Did you ask, Mr. Finance Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0094par0194	Mr. Paylan, it's all wrong. The number's wrong, your information's wrong, he's not a teacher.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0096par0195	He can't ask... he can't ask... Or he should ask the Prime Minister's sons where did you get the service? Or any citizen should be able to ask any citizen who spends too much on less taxes. You know what happens when he can't ask that? There's no tax ethics in that country. What will the congregation do if they do so? Unfortunately, you cannot establish tax morality in that country, you will ride on the backs of the poor. Look, we have a...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0097par0199	You're just showing off.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0098par0200	Mr. Paylan's ears are closed to the truth.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0099par0201	What you're saying is wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0098par0202	You lie, then you ask questions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0100par0203	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0101par0204	You go ahead, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0102par0205	Don't get caught in the tail, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0103par0206	What did you say three days ago? Why did you object to the priest-Zangoç talk?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0101par0207	Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear from the speaker, who will be given the necessary answers, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0208	Mr. President, we have an organization called MASAK, don't we? Mr. Finance Minister, what does MASAK do? You have a CID, don't you? If you love God, the trial of Zarrab continues in America. Look, you also hired a lawyer for Zarrab, Mr. Finance Minister hired a lawyer for your money, you know, our country, with your tax revenues, with your tax dollars, with your tax dollars, and a lawyer named Rocco, a very expensive lawyer, with our taxes. You know what that lawyer said? He said, "Zarrab Solomon has bought Aslan. God, look, he's bought it. He says it's worth it. What does that mean? The money in the shoe boxes that came out of that house was used to buy it. What does MASAK do in this case? What does the Ministry of Finance do? He says, "Come here, Solomon Aslan. Friend, I'm going to build an Imam orator school with these shoe boxes. You said, "Look, they bought you, come and see what you've done about it." Did you do it, Mr. Finance Minister? Where did all this money come from, you were bought. Look, the lawyer I hired says you're hired. What do you think? He's not.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0105par0209	They paid your interest, your interest.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0210	What is it, sir? Man's documents are in the middle, shoe boxes are in the middle, but there's a Finance Minister, Finance Ministry and MASAK who haven't moved. In a country like this, there's no tax ethics, friends, in a country like this, there's no tax ethics, never.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0106par0211	There's no country like this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0212	Look, you know what happened? Republican People's Democratic Party (HDP) People's Democratic Party (HDP) People's Democratic Party (HDP) People's Democratic Party (HDP) People's Democratic Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) I mean, I did it, friend, but, look, if you blow my cover, I'll turn to you. They said, "I'm going to walk like this."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0107par0213	Should I have covered it up?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0214	And as a result, I've seen a different kind of calm in the last few days, friends, now the CHP says less man, and the AKP says less Ataşehir. There's an interesting silence.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0108par0216	There's nothing in Man. Don't talk nonsense. They're a bust.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0217	Look, this silence is unacceptable. This silence is unacceptable. Anyway, the judicial authorities of this country, the Ministry of Finance, the MASAK, the theft, corruption, bad luck - must be revealed, to bring the judicial mechanisms into effect. The allegations should stand before Turkey's judiciary. The trial of our theft, corruption in the American judiciary is the shame of this House, of this country. Come on, let's get this shame out of hand, folks.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0108par0218	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0109par0219	You're saying the same thing, Mr. Paylan. You're on the same line as the next one. No wonder, it's the same mentality.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0220	Look, I know you're going to say 17-25, conspiracy, conspiracy, that's another thing. It's not conspiracy you're looking at, it's theft, bad luck, corruption. You will ask, "Where did you find it?" You will bring MASAK into action, and he will ask, "Where did you find it?" Otherwise, we can't walk in this country with this immorality, with this tax immorality, friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0110par0221	You're insulting the taxpayers. You can't say they're immoral.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0104par0222	What I'm saying is that it's going to create tax ethics that the IRS is going to pursue whatever claims they have on this issue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0111par0225	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0112par0226	Does it suit you, Mr. Paylan?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0113par0227	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0111par0228	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0113par0229	Mr. President, I demand a brief word for 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0111par0230	Here, here, here's a little something I promise you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0113par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened carefully to Mr. Paylan's speech. He said very nice things at first, and then where did it come from, and I don't know why it happened, he said the CHP said less of the man. We're not afraid of anything, and if we claim anything, we'll follow it to the end. Mr. Paylan probably hasn't read the paper in a few days or watched TV.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0114par0236	He didn't say you were afraid. The Engin President expressed a scientific doubt.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0113par0237	Mr. President-in-Chief, just yesterday on a private channel, our Group President, Free Special, went one step further and made a statement to the press yesterday, Mr. Paylan, whether you want to send the Man documents to both the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister. We also stand by our claims about Man's documents, against the illegality of Ataşehir Municipality, and we will be his followers to the end. I wanted to inform the General Assembly. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0115par0239	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0240	Mr. President, I have a statement to make.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0115par0241	According to 60?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0242	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0115par0243	Here, take your seat, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0245	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, you may be the last person in the council to take a moral lesson, and I would like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0117par0247	What did he say to you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0118par0248	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0249	I reject your speeches. It's not your place to go out there and make claims in individual terms, inform people who aren't here, question our Finance Minister; I'd like to point out that it's not your place, one. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] Secondly, the one you call Ziya Ilgen...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0119par0252	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0253	Please, Mr. President, I'd like to proceed before the microphone is cut.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0120par0254	Go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0121par0255	So you wouldn't have to tell your friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0256	The Ziya Ilgen, you call him -- you will study first, before you take the stand -- is a man who's been serving as a national dealer since the 1990s, and who's engaged in trade. He doesn't come out, he doesn't have a teacher, and he's getting a salary like this, and it's about people who aren't here, and I see that there's been a language that's been going on lately.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0122par0257	You'll be moving them here soon enough.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0258	The U.S. case is also being tried; it's a shame, it's pathetic, I want to express it in particular. Here, we declare the situation of Ziya Ilgen, economic, whatever it is, that the Treasury is there, and the interested ones are there... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll open it, I'd like to finish what I said.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0123par0262	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0264	That's how I pass this part. To come out here and make claims like that... if you have one, it's liable to prove that you've got one. Another thing: still shoe boxes, still shoe boxes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0124par0267	Because you didn't judge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0268	Stop hoping for help from these shoe boxes. December 17-25 was a clear blow to the police and the judiciary. In this country, the chosen nation's will was being tried. Would you look at the statements that the person who was supposedly testifying in the U.S. today, the witness, refused to appear here in December 17th to 25th? The person who reminds you of the police trial is Hüseyin Korkmaz, who receives $50,000 from the FBI, pays his monthly rent, is a witness in that case, and has no interest in this case on December 17th or 25th. Look at the prosecutor of that case, the judge of that case...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0125par0269	You can't cover up that theft in 50 years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0270	He's been in touch with the people, but the point is, he's been suspended, and it's about the corruption of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you open it, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0126par0273	Finish it, but just one last minute. I said, please finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0274	I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0127par0275	I'd like two minutes over two, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0126par0276	Wait, we don't have that kind of negotiation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0277	I'll get out of there, and I'll take it from the podium.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0126par0278	Mr. Inecubine, I'll give you one last minute, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0279	When it can't be done through police and judiciary on December 17th or 25th, when it can't be done on July 15th, when travel actions don't work out, it's supposed to be the embargo perforation of Iran, but it's never talked about. What is it, sir, corruption, etcetera... that Zarrab has his own statement, why isn't it said here? He says there's no other way to get out of here than to lie. You're looking at the witness, the prosecutor, the prosecutor, who's involved, who's involved, then unfortunately, the opposition here, some opposition there, the case against the government, where the president's name will be written letter by letter, and there will be help there. Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0128par0281	Shame on you! So you went from there...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0116par0282	Shame on you! Speech!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0129par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0284	First Ahmet Yıldırım, then you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0131par0285	Shame on you! So you went there, and you held hands.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0132par0286	I'm not in the mood to answer to losers like you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0287	Mr. Inuöz, please, you have spoken, I will now listen to Mr. Yıldırım. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0133par0289	Mr. President, our orator has personally harassed Mr. Garo Paylan and we are not going to take moral lessons from you by expressing the name of our group.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0290	Now, wait a minute, I'll promise you as a group, but I'll ask Mr. Paylan about Mr. Paylan. What did he say about you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0134par0291	You're the last person we're going to take a moral lesson from.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0292	Now, first, I'd like to introduce a group of...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0135par0293	You're the last one. I didn't say it, not even you. I said it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0134par0294	He said it was you. Look at the reports, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0295	All right, I'll take a look at the reports on you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0135par0296	More than that, I'd be offended if I took a step back.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0297	Mr. Lightning, please, I'll give you two minutes. Mr. Paylan, I'll take a look at the report.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0135par0299	You're not even the last person in this Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0130par0300	Mr. Incescuz, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0136par0301	Don't be dirty! You're not even the last person, he says.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0137par0302	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0138par0303	Don't be rude! Show some respect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0139par0304	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0140par0305	Mr. Incescuz... Mr. Paylan... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0141par0308	If you stand up, you'll know how to walk. Do you understand?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0140par0309	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0142par0310	Yeah, who are you? What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0143par0311	Don't shake your hand! Don't shake your hand!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0144par0312	I'll shake my hand. Who are you? Stay out of it!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0145par0313	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0146par0314	Mr. President, you're always inviting me to a clean language, so please invite me to a clean one.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0144par0315	You'll come out, you'll insult my President, you'll say the wrong things...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit02spe0145par0316	Mr. Incescuz, please... I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0145par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Here, Mr. Lightning, I promised you two minutes without picking on me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0147par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, if the wealth of a country is disproportionately distributed between the rich and the poor in a country, there can be no mention of the morality of the distribution of wealth; there is no mention of tax morality if it is taxed at the same rate as those below the age of hunger with very ultra-rich people. Those who are uncomfortable with it are defenders of this system, which does not apply to the present order or morality. I will not, in any way, speak of my level as a member of the orator just now, to the extent that our group has been compromised. But I understand the frustrations and frustrations of those who overreact. To be honest, the two or three who have just been picked on here are in the same frame in Pennsylvania, which may be their biggest problem. The other thing is, look, let those who accuse us of seeking help from America know very well that, thank God, a thousand times, we never expected any help from Pennsylvania. Can you imagine, if they were officers and not MPs today, they'd find themselves in front of the door with the KHK if they were standing in front of a false cult leader, who's also taking a fall on our sorority faith? Now, I'm asking you, I'm telling you, Mr. Inus, with that picture, what would happen to you if you were found as a teacher, a doctor, an officer, in that unacceptable image? Being a member of power does not free people from all sins and sins. There's no moral lesson we can take from those who are so involved in the crime of a fake cult sheik that's up to his neck in sin. Let's put it this way, guys...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0148par0014	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0147par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0148par0016	We're not giving in to bullying, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0147par0017	Look, you've given me three extensions -- if you don't give it to me, I'm not really going to say anything. And I, my friend, would like a short extension instead, to complete my promise.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0148par0018	Well, I'll give you one more minute to replace Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0147par0019	Dear friends, let's say we do everything transparent. Yesterday, we went to the Ankara Courthouse with all our MPs, who had been praised for this power, who had received their plaques, who had received their awards; that they had closed 15 per cent of the country's foreign trade deficit; that when he said so, with his chest stretched out, we filed a criminal complaint against the Prime Minister's confessions, as well as the confessions of the lawyer you held against him. We know very well that the court in southern New York is not limited to Hakan Attila and Reza Sarraf. We're making that bet, and we're calling the judicial authority to act. If - God forbid -- those images, those crimes, if anyone from the opposition party had committed those sins, he'd have already been stripped of his immunity, deputized, maybe locked up in prison. But I'm saying we have no doubt that those days will come. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0149par0023	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0150par0025	Mr. President, before we closed the session, we demanded that Mr. Tüyöz. We would not taunt our group and HDP. You said, "I'll give it to Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give it to you first. I'll give it to you later. Therefore, you have closed it with a declaration and a pledge that you will promise to be in the same session, but you will not be bullied without closing it. If your word's good, I'd like to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0149par0026	My word stands, of course.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0150par0027	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0149par0028	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0150par0032	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, dear friends, there's no need to be nervous. Different events happen to people, communities, political parties. Political parties who answer to society, who have an understanding of giving -- which all should be -- come out and do an internal accounting. As a matter of fact, President Erdoğan of the EC PARTY said: "They have deceived us - and he is not tired of being deceived - but God forgive me, my people. This may even be an accounting, but you can't say here: "Sir, it's a coup on December 17-25." Sir, it's a conspiracy on December 17th-25th. Is that what you call it? That's what you say. Why would a party, such as the AK PARTY, who has ruled the country for fifteen years, feed such a despicable, treacherous plot, such a coup, served in your party and in the country for many years, and served as head of state, Zafer Çağlan, Muammar Güler, Egemen Bagraktar, Erdogan Bayraktar? Why would he take those men down from the Ministry and then take them away from Parliament? Isn't that a shame? Go forth, O Hurl Falls, we apologize, O Muammer Güler, and say, "I am sorry." And restore the men's dignity. If you really think December 17-25 is a coup, you should restore the credibility of these four ministers, one. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, Mr. Paylan, if you want to scratch something, let's go for it. It's not the right word or the right thing to do. We've made our claims on this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but there's something else I've been saying in this House for a week: gentlemen, governments are meant to be destroyed, but it's everyone's job to protect the state. I'm just saying this, and I'm giving you a warning, and I'm actually giving you a historical warning. But I see that the majority party doesn't consider it, that they...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0151par0037	It doesn't fall apart, it goes by choice.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0150par0038	What? Governments fall apart by choice. It's amazing. You're not high, you're not high, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0152par0040	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0152par0042	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0043	Mr. President, the previous speaker mentioned my name directly to me in his speech, and it was necessary to explain it to me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0152par0044	There's no need to explain, Mr. Inecubine, because we have to put the reason in the transcripts, so we need it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0045	In the words of Mr. Slimy, I'd like to introduce myself...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0152par0046	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to point out that since the budget talks started, we've been saying it all the time, let's act in accordance with Parliament's terms. In that sense, I was on duty yesterday, and we listened to the speakers, the speakers, with as much patience as possible. Of course, it is necessary to tolerate power in that sense, to understand that sense, but sometimes there are such conversations on this platform that whatever you do here, whatever mood you are in, there are times when patience is really running out. This falls as much to the ruling lawmakers as it falls to the ruling members, as it falls to the group's deputy presidents, as it falls to the speakers here, and to the other party's deputy leaders and MPs. Of course, we know that we have egg mold on our backs, the responsibility of 80 million and many of the people in the world who have come to power under our obligation, and from now on, we will continue to act. From time to time, they go out here and have conversations. We say: "You can make criticism, but if you go beyond the limits of criticism and personalize it, if you personalize it, by making it personal, about people who are not here, who are not able to answer, let me throw it out, but let's just leave a mark. Now, the other thing is, before December 17-25 -- before December 2013 -- and without a visit like that, it's very painful if this picture comes out when you feel that every word I say hurts you here, every time I come out of it. Without anything going on in there... Maybe I don't know who's got pictures or what. And I specifically declare, O my people, that the work here with all those KHKs has been thrown out of business, exports, et cetera...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0154par0051	Mr. President, you were here on the night of July 15th.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0155par0052	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0053	I'd like to point out in particular that there's a criteria here, what's the criteria? If you're still helping after December 17th-25th... We put up a lot of conditions, why do we have to set these conditions? So that no one will be wronged, and we can stand together in the face of injustice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Which is a very old photograph, but I always thought you'd bring it in here and hurt us by talking...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0156par0056	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0157par0057	You tease us, we'll bring you in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0058	... And those who think they can keep us from telling the truth are wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0158par0059	Mr. President, you were here on the night of July 15th.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0060	And after December 17th and 25th, on this stand again, the first word to the coup d'état, your brother who objects...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0159par0061	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0158par0062	You were here on the night of July 15th, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0063	... And I'm speaking to you as your brother, on July 15th, with many of our fellow lawmakers here, who's taken a stand against coups and presumptions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0159par0064	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0065	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0160par0066	Mr. President, you were here on the night of July 15th.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0153par0067	I'm just saying that for the record.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0161par0069	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0162par0071	Mr. President, you're a lawyer, and there are valuable lawyers here. In the Turkish Penal Code, those who have engaged in this Gülenci terrorist organization, the criminal acts of those who have hired jobs are invalid before December 17th or 25th, and then there's a clause called "judgment," and we don't know if it's us?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0163par0072	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0162par0073	Do we really not know? There's no such thing. Second thing, Mr. Altay, if it's scratching, if it's messing with this place, it's your intention... to start by taunting our esteemed orator.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0163par0075	I didn't say "complicated." I said, scratch.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0164par0076	That's what he said.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0162par0077	We want to talk about bullying Mr. Paylan according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0164par0078	No. He didn't say anything about Mr. Paylan, Mr. Altay. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0162par0080	He spoke to Mr. Paylan about it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0164par0081	No. Mr. Altay said something general.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0162par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0164par0083	Mr. Paylan didn't make any cracks about it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0165par0084	Don't pick on my eyebrow.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0166par0085	Mr. President, he gave his name.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0164par0086	I'm talking to Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0166par0087	He gave his name.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0167par0088	Is it teasing to scratch an issue?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0090	No, no, nothing like that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0091	Mr. President, listen to me. Okay, then Mr. Paylan will make a brief statement based on the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0093	Look, when you're promised two minutes of bullying here, I'll also speak for Payylan. You said, "I've extended your time."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0094	Mr. President, I'm talking about a conversation after that. Mr. Altay would like to clarify his speech, orator.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0095	No, in the speech of Mr. Engin Altay, there's nothing to do with insulting Mr. Paylan, taunting him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0170par0096	If you look at the report, you'll see.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0097	He wants to make a statement, Mr. President, according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0098	Then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0099	No, Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0100	No, I don't. Why is Paylan making a statement?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0171par0101	He gave his name.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0102	Mr. President, his name has been mentioned.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0103	Look, the request for an explanation is made by the person himself...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0104	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0105	If there's an attack, the group will demand a vice president. You are now asking me for words to explain instead of Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0172par0106	No, he'll do it himself.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0107	No, he'll do it himself, Mr. President. I wanted to talk about bullying, and now he wants to explain himself according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0108	You want to talk about teasing, I'll give it to you without picking on you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0109	No.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0110	Do I have to promise Mr. Paylan a minute?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0168par0111	Yes, I'd like your word for a minute, Mr. President, not without teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0112	Have a seat. Well, one moment from your position, Mr. Paylan, the challenge is about to take place. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0173par0117	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, the AKP is acting as if this coup d'état, with those 17-25 operations, is acting as if this Fetullahist structure has been activated, but your friends in this group and the sociology that this group has endured. Our thousands of friends have spent years in prison with the files that the building has organized. You know their role in the murder of Hrant Dink. You were walking with that structure in all of this. You woke up on December 17th and 25th. The extent of the impact dynamic of December 17-25, yes, aside from that, let's face it as well, but what are we going to do about theft, corruption, bribery? One of our fellow lawmakers just said, "There's nothing outside the law." You say, "There's nothing outside the law." But is it moral or legal or conscience? Are these shoe boxes legal? Aren't we going to ask questions? While we're on the back of the citizen, won't the Minister of Finance be asking us to account for all the money in these shoe boxes?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0169par0120	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on behalf of Bitlis MP. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0174par0156	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I have made a pledge on the budget of 2018 of the Public Contraction Agency and the President of the Privatisation Administration. 2017 didn't bring any good. In the hope that the year 2018 will bring peace, peace and happiness, I salute all the prisoners and relatives and the public, especially our co-chairs and deputies held captive. Dear lawmakers, there have been privatisations in many public areas over the past decade. According to Privatisation Administration Presidency data, 267 companies had a stock or asset-selling process, and 257 of them had no public share. Over the past 30 years, over $60 billion in revenues from privatisation has been made during the AKP period, so whatever was available has been sold. It may sound good as an economic income, but it must not be forgotten that privatisation has killed hundreds of monopoly workers from their jobs, hundreds of mine workers from their lives again. The capital has destroyed people's lives with the ambition to make more money. With privatisations, the government will only do inspection. Of course, when I say audited, I don't mean companies, whether there are workers on strike or not, he'll be audited. Otherwise, the buyer's happy to sell it. Dear lawmakers, another issue concerns public tenders. The Public Contracting Law, which was published in the Official Gazette on January 22, 2002, was made a virtually different law by 42 changes during the AKP administration. In particular, the law should be expanded in terms of the most important areas of corruption and lawlessness, but with every change, the law has been stretched out almost. In 2016 alone, it was three of the official newspaper ads, three of which were KHK and 4734. The public tender law of lulu has been changed six times in total. In addition, nine changes have been made in the laws adopted in the Laws of Applying Service Contracts, Productions Compulsory Contracts, Counselling Service Appliances, Framework Agreements Appliances Rules and Electronic Appropriations Applications Rule, 7 and 9 have been changed in the Laws laid down in Public Retribution General Appeals. With changes made in the law, the Public Contraction Agency has been disabled, it is no longer possible to talk about transparency in the tenders. According to Transparency International Transparency International International International International Transparency, Turkey ranked 64th in 2014 with 45 points, while in 2015, it ranked 66th in the United States with 42 points. See, a large area in the Ministry of Justice, Social Services and Child Protective Services during the AKP administration, at the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, the State Supplies Office of State, the General Directorate of State Railways of Turkey, has been presented to those who have capital in Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency for meat and fish products, as part of the RD activities. Such areas as supply and service purchases by the pipelines and oil transport company BOTAS have been excluded from the scope of the law, such as the subsidised gas imports, repairs and restoration of the foundation's cultural assets, and the purchases of goods and services from the TRT General Directorate. I'd like to ask you, what is the reason why so many various areas and areas that should be controlled by the state have been excluded from the Public Contraction Act? For example, schools and centres that produce under the Ministry of National Education have been excluded from the Public Contraction Act. In schools, 450 thousand classes of interactive boards still need over 250,000 smart boards, but the cost is unknown because it is unmanageable from public tenders. Dear friends, the law is made to protect and control things. The changes that have been made so far have been officially made in order to disqualify the law. In areas such as energy, water, telecommunications, the purchase of goods and services has been removed from that law, meaning that a law that cannot control energy, water, and communication has been created to make it easier. Dear lawmakers, the 5th article of the Public Contraction Act clearly states that the basic methods that should be implemented in public tenders are open tenders and tenders among certain willing ones. The legislator is pushing these two methods so that government tenders that use public resources are available to as many people as possible, that public resources can be used effectively and efficiently. Negotiating is an exceptional method that can be carried out under very special circumstances. Under these special circumstances, the administration can only tender a deal by negotiating. The public's tenders increased by 86 per cent in 2016, while in the first six months of this year's tenders were increased by 175 per cent to 16.8 billion euros, according to the same period last year. As long as good lawmakers, tenders and public expenditures are not open, transparent, and manageable, the fight against corruption remains only talk. Corruption also leads to the decay of society and the poverty of a large number. Just doing business isn't a skill. The recipe for engineering is a person who knows how to do for a dollar what an idiot does for $2. There is only one way to do a job with quality and economics; it can be done transparently, manageable and questionablely. As long as we can't do that, we can't stop corruption, theft. Mr. Gardener is very skilled at finding legal formulas for the actual situation, and I wonder why he hasn't developed a formula for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me share a moment with you. In the 1980s, when I worked for a multinational company working for the Sultanate of Oman in the 1980s, the general directorate published a complete list of gifts that you could accept for Christmas. This list would start with 1 box of biscuits, 1 box of chocolates, the company's logo, the clock or the pen, one basket of mangoes. Of course, at the time, RD funds and technology leaving the budget were not as advanced as they are today. The technology and invention of chocolate can be stored longer with dollar bales of gold in chocolate cans, save purses in gift clothes, use shoeboxes as safes to shine feet and have a foot-smelling effect did not take place. I don't know if you've noticed, there's a statue of a wristwatch at the intersection of Congress. In every country, it is customary to build clock towers at the angle of public meeting and setting the time, but at intersections, a monument is either a symbol of that city or a story. For example, a statue of a cat, a statue of a watermelon in Diyarbakır, a statue of a rooster in Denizli. I don't know how you can interpret this meaningless, but it's obviously not a statue that represents Ankara once. If the letters or company logo were to be put in this watch, all our people would remember the philanthropist businessman who reduced the current deficit by 15 percent. Besides, I don't think anyone's looking at this watch. If it works, it shows two times 5:25 a day, but if it doesn't work, if we combine the scorpion and the herman with more than five numbers, it's a symbol of monogamy and a symbol of the 17-25. But our new President, Mr. Tuna, is a thoughtful person, just as he removed the dinosaur statue from an intersection and transferred it back to where it belongs, this watch will remove it from here and transfer it back to where it belongs. There's a phrase we use all the time, that a few people who don't know what they're doing can't be wronged by society or the congregation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0175par0172	I'll give you an extra minute, Mr. Bagpipe. Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0174par0174	Thank you. Otherwise, the shame will be on the House. I would also like to remind you of Mr. Gardenli's friendly advice on July 14, 2016. Mr. Gardener said not to take your head out of the sand. And let the waters be cooled down, and let not the waters settle down, and let not the water which ye know not. You may not find allies and prosecutors across the ocean. I'd like to finish with an anecdote: peace is forbidden to you if you seek peace at the stake. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0176par0180	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0177par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech on the stand, Mr. Gardener, who had just formulated every issue, used expressions that he would be pleased to find a formula for it. Of course, we don't know what formula he wanted to formulate, but the National Movement Party has a program for all of our country's issues, a solution proposal, and you can express it as formula. Also, all speeches and speeches referred to on July 14th are written and recorded. We still stand by our views, and we continue to defend them. The accuracy of the words in the past is that after a short period of time, there's already been incidents and...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0178par0188	Complete, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0177par0189	...confirmed by the conjunctural. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0178par0191	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, dear friends, although nine tenths of the rows are almost empty...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0180par0228	Please, speak up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0181par0229	Yes, sir!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0230	First, I salute our dear people who follow us and our dear friends, our friends, who follow us in the dungeons. Dear friends, from time to time on this bench, we're discussing some of the realities, contrasts, and solutions that we've experienced from yesterday to today. As a society with a history and experience of a serious coup, the descriptions, the words are inadequate compared to what we're experiencing today. The AKP, which says that Turkey will be the chosen ones, not the appointed ones, has carried out the sentence of those appointed more than no coupker has ever done. It destroyed national will, choice. The AKP's ruling campaign, calling it the rule of law, not the law of the superior, is writing the book of the law of the superior, unprecedented in the world. Unprecedented corruption, rants, high-rises, high-rises, boasts of numbers, massacres, executions, tortures. He becomes a right-seeking terrorist, he becomes a justice-seeking separatist, he immediately ends up in prison, saying "freedom." All but justice, justice, love, and peace existed in the government. The palaces of justice have worked for the White Palace, not for justice. In one election talk, I stated that his house was separated from the people, and he was cut off from the people who were cut off from the people. Whether it's the White House or the White Palace, the Green Palace of Emevis, the palaces are expected to be persecuted, the palace tries to be persecuted, but everyone who lives and reads history knows it's not to be persecuted. In this country, the rich and the poor have the same rights. In this country, Turkey and Kurd have the same rights. In this country, Sunni and Alevi have the same rights. He is a liar who says, he does not see the truth. The man and woman have the same rights in this country. In this country, there is no race of rape against nature for ambition and rant. He who says, "He does not see the truth, or he is a liar. " We've talked about human rights over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over again, and over and over and over and over and over again, and over Even though law was your law, we explained the law, the political criteria, the rules; it never came to that. Even the law of the superior wasn't enough. We've tried to explain to you the sufferings our people have experienced and the pain we've witnessed, the demands of our people, the expectations of us and you, the noise, or you've ignored them. From time to time, I gave examples of the Qur'an, the revelation in person, that perhaps you would understand the truth, in the love of the Prophet, the book in which you spoke so much of it, and the faces turned again, and the faces hung again. I thought maybe you could see in the reality of the revelation, of what you couldn't see in the nationality, the eunuchs, the monogamy political sieges, and the false sanctity, and I hoped you'd recognize the truth, and I shared it with you, and you ignored it. What right you call terrorism, separatism, and what solution is contrary to the Quran? I said, let's go! Let's discuss it, let's talk about it, and I'll be convinced. I said, let the Qur'an rule. I said, "You didn't agree." You've produced a mainstream pool media that has no function except slander, lies, trial, coverment of truth, distortion of facts. Today, what you call a major terrorist organization, you've been the biggest aid and abetting for years in your testimony, and you who have made the greatest alliance in history with that structure, you're trying to force people to take a 17-25 blow just because you've had a fight between you and them, just because you've had a win and runt fight. The attempts to forget the November 6th political coups and cover up corruption are not just a coup, but a process of covering up your own disputes, when your interests are raised, when it's obvious. Well, my dear friends, look, we're talking budget today. Our Garo Deputy and our other friends have made some very good statements about the contrasts of the budget, the distortions. I'd like to read you a verse, my dear friends, dear ruling fellow. You know, when you were a systemist, there was a verse you didn't drop from your tongues. You get what you want from many poets, and you still get it today, and you use the words of many poets without saying right or left, but I have no longer heard the words of Necip Fazil, which you are so highly respected, which you don't speak from your tongue: Ten servants of God shall wait for ten stamps; Nine for one, one for nine. It doesn't make my cab a wolf if it's a lamb; Long live the black market, the guarantor of my shroud! Today, you, dear friends, are living the reality, the practice of this wolf-sharing, as you speak of Necip Fazil, as you speak of his philosophy at every turn. We did not obey the unbelievers yesterday, nor were we grateful to the oppressors, nor will we submit to today's wrongs, nor to today's persecutions, nor to the oppressions. Let not the truth separate us from truth, justice, love, peace, and freedom. You can't side with the palace, the kingdom, the pomp, and the people. It is either to be with the people, or to be with the people, or to be with the people, and to be with the oppressors. This is a historical reality. Come, let us turn our faces not into palaces, but into thrones; but into justice, justice, conscience, brotherhood, humanity, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0182par0243	God will ask about this last conversation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0183par0244	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0245	I want to make it clear that I am telling you this from the bottom of my heart, from the bottom of my heart. If you listen with your conscience, you won't find a single comma, no dots, dear friends. Look, here we are face-to-face in this world of testing, and here we have a law with each other.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0183par0247	Yes, the world of trials, that's right.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0248	I'm talking about revelation, I'm talking about justice, I'm talking about right, but you're making a racket to cover up lies, you're fighting, you're fighting, you're fighting, you're fighting, you're trying to lie. I'm just saying, let's share the facts, let's take care of justice, truth, truth together, make our country beautiful, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0184par0249	As a believer in divine justice, my Lord will ask you to speak from that stand.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0250	One of those who are subject to rights. [[The reading of the 47th verse of Taha by the preacher]] I invite you to do so.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0184par0254	God will ask you to pay for this conversation one day, it doesn't matter. You're free, you have the right to say anything there.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0185par0255	May we see the days when the words and the words are in harmony.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0179par0256	Inshallah, inshallah. And in the ranks of power, we will see that you share these realities, these beauties.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0186par0257	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0187par0258	Tell me, tell me, my Lord will ask.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0188par0259	Let's hope it goes well with those who say it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0187par0260	If you're trying to provoke it, none of this group is gonna get turned on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0189par0261	Mr. Turan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0190par0262	Mr. President, speaking of our group during the speech, he said, "You can't be bullied by injustice." He said, "You have prepared the power of the appointed." He said, "You have made many statements." I'd like to answer, if I may.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0189par0263	I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0190par0268	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We've reached the last few days of budget negotiations. We want to end this process with as much dignity as we can, with common sense. And most of our parties are supportive, even our parties are supportive, but we have a few friends from each party, so to speak, who are throwing up grudges and leaving. But all the parties, when we look at them in total, are people who know the amount of budget talks, their dignity, people who evaluate them. I hope that our other friends will set an example for our friends who throw up grudges, inspire common sense, coolness, and take advantage of their view of the budget. I've looked at what part of the conversation I just had to correct, believe me, it's a total problem. We know why this language is like this. We know why you were slaughtered and tried to become a lion in Ankara.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0191par0271	We also know about the talks in Oslo.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0190par0272	But it doesn't suit you guys, it's a shame. This language is not a uniting language. In this country, it is an insult to the people who claim that Kurd and Turk (Turkish) are not equal, that Alevi and Sunni (Sunni), and that men and women are not equal. It's not the party that's been assigned from the beginning. It's our party that's paid a great price for us to walk along the path of the chosen. From the closing case, from December 17th to July 15th, everyone knows why we're walking with the nation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0191par0273	Mr. President, this is the party that conducts the talks in Oslo.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0190par0274	Everyone knows what we're going through at the price of that. Look, dear friends, you've made your case again about December 17th-25th. I respect your appreciation. If you will have faith in the indictments of Zechariah, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0192par0276	You are the ones who have faith in Zechariah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0193par0277	Dear Sugar, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0190par0278	We know exactly what that means, what that trial attempt was, what the coup attempt was about. In fact, Turkey understood it, we went to the elections, he did what he had to do. Everyone's already seen this as an infrastructure for July 15th, but come back to the beginning and repeat it in a manner that believes in the indictments of December 17th, that's not the right approach. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0193par0281	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0194par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0193par0283	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0194par0284	In fact, there's some bullying, but I just wanted to tell you, Mr. Group Vice President, we're benefiting from Zechariah's reminder of Minister of Interior Süleyman Nobleman before us.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0195par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0193par0287	Mr. Kaya, what is your request?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0195par0288	He accused me of throwing up hate, of lying. Lamb in the kandil...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0196par0289	That's what we've been told, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0197par0290	You didn't?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0195par0291	I called it "seriously" there.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0292	Now, he's said these sentences...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0199par0293	I'll cut up some lamb in the kandil.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0294	Mr. Kerestecioglu, there's a procedure here. If your group is sanctioned, you want to talk about bullying on behalf of your group, show them who you're giving it to, or you demand it, and I'll call you if I see fit.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0199par0295	You just said don't do that. That's why Ms. Hüda is talking.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0296	Now, you demand it, Mr. Kaya gives the motive. Let's do this the right way, and we'll make up our minds.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0200par0297	I didn't, Mr. President, I'm in the mood to talk.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0298	I'm listening, Mr. Kaya, what is your request?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0201par0299	I want a say in this because it's bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0300	What's the excuse for teasing?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0201par0301	He talked about throwing up hate, it's against my nature, it can't happen. I mean, this kind of separatism...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0302	Some of the MPs said, "If you're putting yourself in that category..."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0201par0303	He answered me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0304	Look, some of the MPs said it was almost like a grudge. Two minutes if you're putting yourself in that category.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0202par0305	But if that's how you see yourself... you have to say it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0198par0306	I don't hear it, I don't hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0203par0308	Thank you, Mayor. Dear friends, I speak with my heart as much as I can, and I try to share the truth with you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0204par0310	You speak not with your heart, but with instructions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0203par0311	Let's not quibble. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0205par0312	Mr. Kaya, you talk, I'll make the necessary warnings. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0203par0313	I mean, it's nice to be with you guys, right, what we believe in... we don't have to be in the same color here anyway, dear friends. Even those at the same party, even if they are brothers and sisters from the same parents in a family, people may feel differently, they may have different tastes and preferences.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0206par0314	You speak violently, you speak provocatively. What are you saying when you should be talking about peace?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0203par0315	Excuse me, please... But here we are a separate party. Which means there's a difference between our postures and our references... it's natural to criticize each other here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0206par0317	It's not a criticism, it's an insult.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0203par0318	These criticisms can't be a cause of hate.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0207par0319	That's what happens when you get references to the PKK. You're right, it's true!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0208par0320	Mr. President, give me a warning.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0209par0321	We tolerate criticism, we show patience for criticism, but we can't bear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0210par0322	You know what makes me hate you guys?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0211par0323	It's offensive.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0212par0324	Mr. President, aren't you hearing it again?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0213par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0214par0326	It was Ramadan Eve, it was blessed months, we were about to enter Ramadan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0215par0327	That's what happens when you have a reference to the PKK, there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0214par0328	The president of this country, the AKP...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0216par0329	AK PARTY, not AKP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0214par0330	...the AKP President made a statement, and I got goosebumps, and I thought, "God, don't they call it the Koran, the Quran, the people who know the truth, the justice, the MPs who have a conscience, this is wrong?" Don't be sad, you'll be miserable if you feel sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0216par0331	In what sense did he say that, what meaning?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0214par0332	But we say we are followers of the Prophet who say, "If you will have mercy, you will be shown mercy."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0217par0333	She speaks as the head of state, ma'am. She speaks as the head of state. She does not speak as the head of state. She speaks as the head of state.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0214par0334	...but people are injected with hatred, cruelty. Doctors forbid kids to watch TV anymore, they learn curse words, they learn violence, they learn hate. It's not our media, it's the media you've uncovered, my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0218par0337	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0219par0338	When you say on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group... Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0218par0340	I'm just gonna say it so he's on the books, if you'll excuse me. Everyone knows the President says, "Don't hurt the terrorist, don't hurt the terrorist, you'll be miserable." We've been protecting our claim to be merciful to this nation, to 80 million, even to all people, but we've never felt sorry for terrorists, for terror, for no mercy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0219par0343	Thank you. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Doğan will now speak. Mr. Celal Doğan is also speaking on behalf of the person, so we're combining two conversations. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0220par0379	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'm here to present the opinion of the People's Democratic Party on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute your high council. I'm going to mention the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget, but Mr. Finance Minister is here, and I'd like to say a few words for him, if you don't mind. For whom are these budgets being made? ▪ Whose budgets are these budgets?........... the view of our country has often been: we are a developing country. There are two ways to capitalize - whether it's stolen or stolen from the moneyholders. Without stealing from them, there is no capital default in Turkey; it is a natural form of property. In Turkey, budgets are usually budgets that have found no life outside of the capital, except in very exceptional circumstances, for workers and peasants in a few budgets, especially at base prices and workers' wages. So don't push the Minister too hard, don't push him on this. Its essence is that, unfortunately, this is the fate of developing countries. The opposite can happen in socialist parties, in the budgets dominated by social democratic thinking, and if you provide that, you can make income. That's exactly what the late Ozal told me. I said, "You're talking about a lot of numbers." One day you will come, and you will give the capital I have saved to the workers as a social Democrat. So let me skip this part like this. And good luck with your budget work, Mr. Secretary. As we look at the history of the ministry, Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports, this Ministry has previously served as the general director of a ministry, a task given to one of the state ministers, and then the Department of Independent Youth and Sports in Turkey has been violated; you are one of them. You're a friend of ours, from the sport. So we're trying to understand your language, and I believe you'll understand ours. Most of the issues I'm going to talk about are, in fact, issues that go beyond your ministry, not just about you, but about the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family and the Ministry of Social Security, you and the Ministry of Interior. We have a population of 80 million. We're allegedly a young population. This young population, for the time being, may be considered a young population, but if you look forward to the issue of birth rates, we can also go back to being old. The number of these... may be a drug of our President's understanding of three children, four children. What does he always say in the thing? One state, one nation, one country, one flag. Four, Rabia Four turned to this. Now, hopefully, one day, for God's sake, for Muhammad, for faith, for religion, and for eight children, don't be surprised. But that doesn't make the country's population look good, so there's a lot of populations. As many children as we can look at, as much as we can train, as much as we can love, and more than that, that's what's supposed to happen, Turkey needs to be directed at this. So the results of both numbers... are the numbers of the OECD, or rather the international corporations. We are one of the most unhappy young countries in OECD countries. As for our young people's reading, or rather, when we look at their desire for college, there's a great deal of work and desire in our young people, because the structure of our people, on a large scale, has always been inspired to take one step towards the gate of the state, perhaps you'll have bread. We spend so much money, so much effort, and eventually, most of the people that we've raised, they've joined the unemployed army, and they're sort of like the miserable people of Turkey this time. It turns out that, frankly, in Turkey, we turn young people into a group of people we move to flee the country because of the fear of not getting a job after finishing college, the fear of unemployment, the fear of interfering with their lives, and another because their freedoms were limited. Speaking of young people, one of the most important things to focus on is the function of young people and our view of young people. In every country in the world, youth is the engine of the country, the engine of change and transformation, the engine of revolutionaryism and dynamics. Democratic countries assess the rebellions, rebellions, demands of young peoples, and those countries resolve, absorb their young people's demands, and do not face the violence of anarchy and terrorism that will lead their country to chaos. But it turns out all over the world that non-democratic authoritarian regimes put their ears into young people's desires, and when they do, they bring up the understanding of destroying and destroying this dynamic of young people in Turkey, and they put it on the agenda. Young people often face two forces. One is an understanding of old people, fathers, and mothers, and parents, who are trying to digest them so that no disaster happens to my child. On the other hand, the authoritarian state forces in front of the young people, and as we've lived in Turkey for a long time, March 12th, September 12th, thousands of our young people, despite being organized from the same point, have broken up thousands of our young people -- right and left -- despite the fact that it is a game at the same point. Most of them were sentenced to death on September 12th, and 50 of them were hanged, and executed. Because the understanding of authoritarian regimes is, let's not hang them and feed them. Their idea, let's not feed them, hang them, is the idea of a state in which young people deal with Turkey. That's the way it is in all the authoritarian regimes, and it's gone. On September 12th... it is a young generation of 68 generations in Turkey, dynamics in Turkey is one of the dynamic groups of all countries around the world, and they have particularly opened the way for change and transformation, but in Turkey, Deniz Gezmis, a symbol of March 12th -- everyone is an international revolutionary -- who can judge differently than he thinks. He's an anti-American, socialist all the way. In his last breath, when he was hanged in Turkey, he said, "Long live a fully independent, truly democratic Turkey!" That's why I'm renegotiating those friends. It doesn't really matter that your evaluations are different. I want to say something else. Young people of that time were often not really people who were involved with the community, taking the people with them, or rather doing the act. But when we came to travel events, we came across a different view. The travel events, Mr. President, are often staged as a game of foreign countries, or rather as a game that he put out. If you ask me, as a result of the anxiety of life's intervention, when our mother and father were very different from the actions we put in, they were there with their mother, uncle, aunt, and descendants, everyone because they didn't want to digest the interference. Therefore, if we put all these demands into place, evaluate them correctly, give them the right diagnosis, they will not be the problems that they have to solve at the beginning of the country. I always see that the right diagnosis, which is not included in the issues under all the violence in Turkey, is the result of whether or not we can find a democratic solution, at the beginning of our repeated treatments by combining the outcome with the result. It is clearly one of the major causes of violence in Turkey today. The cause-and-result thing has to be analyzed correctly. The cure must be diagnosed correctly. The approach must be democratic and for freedom. After that, I believe that drying swamps in Turkey is the greatest measure and the greatest medicine that will prevent mosquitoes from breeding. Mr. Secretary, one of the big issues that we really need to talk to you about is maybe we should talk about sports outside of this youth, but the last thing I want to say about young people is that I think there are 600,000 beds in Turkey that depend on you. The numbers could be wrong. I mean, there are 600,000 beds in 81 districts that are registered to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Loans and Dorms. But that's about 13 percent of what young people want. Where all the other young people will go, we either have children in the homes of the congregations or the cults or the NGOs or some organization that we don't know why they're being founded for. I mean, we lived on July 15th in Turkey. A country that lives on July 15th, we need to see how these children were raised, and when we leave young people in the hands of an organization that has the power to shoot bullets in Turkey, our fate will not be any different. So, the moral of the story is that in any case in Turkey, young people should not be abandoned by the state to meet issues such as housing problems, food problems, and other people's compassions. My dear friends, there's been a lot of discussion here recently about names, and there's even been a discussion about where we're going to hurt each other, and a friend of ours is going to be punished. What is it? He said "curdistan." If I'm not mistaken, my class was mentioned yesterday. Now, Mr. Secretary, there's the Football Federation here in Turkey, there are clubs in the Football Federation. Now, I want to give you an example. Have you ever seen a football team go out on the field in Turkey with a sword, a gun on its waist or a rock and a stick? I didn't see it. But there's a team called Amedspor in Turkey. A club registered by Amedspor Federation. Now, if I ask you, Amed, they want to make it sound like he's from the Kurds, he's from Kurdish, he's got a word that the Kurds want to worship. As far as I know, Amed is the old name of Diyarbakır. It is the name of a town that was left behind from its ancestors. Wherever Amedspor went to Turkey, the Kurds were damned, exposed to slogans called PKK. In many places, our friends regret going there. Now shall we take Amedspor, in what you call Southeast Anatolian, and imprison the cities you call the Kurdish people? Do we take them out around Bingol, Bitlis, Siirt, Diyarbakir, or should they stay there? You want them to make a league of their own? Amed was treated like this everywhere he went as a well-intentioned sports team. The kids at that stadium didn't actually do that. As a result of the seeds we planted, the messages we sent in politics, the way we looked at the HDP, the way we looked at the Kurdish people, our friends were subjected to violence where they went, and they were investigated as slogans. Here at the Ankara Power Game, Mr. Minister has surely been very clear, these friends, our friends' executives, have been thrown out of the hall of honor. Now, how do we approach each other? Even in sports, if we can't even digest a sports team, I wonder how we're gonna get this job. Two, Mr. Secretary, speaking of sports, it occurred to me that, especially in your time, we have to figure this out. In Turkey, professional football needs a serious law, a law on clubs. You can't run these sports clubs with the Associations' Law at this point where clubs owe $4 billion. There was a team called Gaziantepspor, a legendary team, that team will fall into the minor league today, and this year, it will fall to amateurs in the future. The government didn't take it away from the thieves because the Ministry of Interior's audit, unfortunately, didn't function. Now, of course, we accept the clubs as autonomous of our Football Federation; that's true, but forgive me, I don't think it's going to be difficult; 99.9% of the many federations, such as the Football Federation and the Volleyball Federation, are selected by signs in Turkey. It is elected just like the AK PARTI district and county conventions. No one has the courage to run. Whoever's marked is the president. Delegates are obedient, and the presidents are trapped there. Thus, Turkish football cannot be saved by this understanding. If you want me to show you a way, I'll come and help you with it. A one-word amendment to Turkey's Development Law... you know in the Building Law there would be a 35-percent parcel, and now it would be up to 40 per cent. If you allocate 5 percent of this to sports areas only, so if we don't use it for the runt, you're going to have to give 100. 24,000 are currently licensed managers in Turkey. We have 14 million young people, Mr. Secretary. This should be the source of sports in Turkey. There are 3 million Turks in Europe, serving football to 7 countries and national teams. We can't make shit out of 80 million. So there's something wrong with our system. What should be done in sports is that with a ten-year program, it is not right to digest such a failed national team. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I ask you for a moment, Mr. President, if you don't want me to?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0221par0397	Okay. Please, complete.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0220par0399	If you'll excuse me, we have a system failure and a ten-year lack of programming. This must be done, when it's done, there's a chance that football players from the Turkish national team will be raised from our own infrastructure. I've been through this in my own club. In addition to one or two foreigners, nine of the 11 players were children from Antwerp, or from the surrounding provinces. We have people, but no farms, no education, no men to raise, no understanding to dwell on it. There's a big problem with the Basket, especially with the Euroleague. None of our young children get a chance to play because in Euroleague, at the European Championships, at very serious competitions, everyone plays strangers. There's got to be a way out of this, or I think we've fallen a lot lower than basketball took us ten years ago. We have a very valuable Director General of Youth and Sports from amateurs. That friend is the man who swallows the mud and dust here, and it's your chance, and it's a chance for Turkish sports. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0222par0405	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Congressmans, the People's Democratic Party group talks have been completed. Now, it's time for a speech on behalf of the government. First, on behalf of the government, Minister of Finance Naci Agbal will speak for him. Here you are, Mr. Agbal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0412	Mr. President, I'm here to express my opinion about the assessments, opinions and criticisms made by party groups on the finance ministry budget, first of all, I salute you all. I'm also praying that our Finance Ministry budget brings blessings to our country. You know, the Ministry of Finance is a ministry that collects the revenues of the state, budgets, manages the entire process of spending, makes the practices of state property cognitive; we have functions in many other areas. However, the most important issue here is the gathering of public resources, public spending, and accountability and transparency in this sense. There have been some assessments of how the Finance Ministry has done its duties from time to time in today's evaluations. I can safely say that for the last 16 years, there has been an extraordinary change and transformation in the Treasury Department. The Finance Ministry looks like a ministry that renovates itself in every field, transforms it, reconstructs itself in accordance with the needs of the age, the needs of today. When we looked at the Finance Ministry in the 1990s, he had a public account system that could not account for his expenses, or even know how to spend them, which could not keep their records properly, which was not transparent or accountable. After coming to government as the EC PARTI, we did practices that increased the Ministry of Finance's duties and powers and especially increased accountability and transparency in public spending. I'm amazed today. Some friends say: "We can't see anything about spending. " Before, you couldn't see anything. Now, every month, the Finance Ministry publicly shares every detail of each expenditure on the page of the Accounting General Directorate. Thus, the most transparent, most accountable budgetary practices of public spending were carried out during the EC PARTY administrations, and we are in the effort and effort to take it further.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0224par0414	Then why don't you send the court reports?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0415	We've been talking about tax practices all along, and the EC PARTY governments have made significant distances in the last 15 years at the point of tax justice. In this sense -- the subject of criticism has just been made here -- the added value tax is a right, indirect tax, but during the AK PARTY administrations, we've made significant reductions in value tax rates, especially in areas where low and medium-income groups spend the most.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0225par0416	You've brought a WTV...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0417	In education, in health, in basic foods, and again in many social areas, we have reduced the added value tax rates to either 8 percent, or we have reduced them to 1 percent. With the VAT arrangement we've made for the agricultural community, we've reset the VAT in the bait and fertilizer. So, if you're looking for a conscientious budget, the AK PARTI budgets have always made budgets based on conscience, based on citizens. If you're looking for tax justice, the AK PARTY governments have been the most sensitive governments at the point of doing tax justice. Did we reduce income tax rates at this time? We dropped it. Did we lower the corporate tax rates? We dropped it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0226par0419	What did you do with the matrahs? What did you do with the matrahs, the slices? How did you arrange the slices?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0420	Have we made many arrangements in addition value tax rates, especially for social spending, for social groups? We did it. If you're looking for tax justice, if you look at the sources where taxes have been collected over the past 15 years, we've had a tax policy that reduces the tax burden on low- and middle-income groups. Who brought the minimum income reduction in 2008? As an AK PARTY, especially today, we started implementing minimum income reductions in 2008 to bring down the tax burden of those working at minimum wage, and so today the tax rate of a person who is now working at minimum wage is 15 percent.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0226par0422	22 percent, average.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0423	...but on the minimum wage today, the effective tax burden is between 5% and 0 per cent, depending on the number of children, depending on the state of marriage.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0226par0424	The average is 22 per cent tax-paying minimum, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0425	Especially after three kids, we don't get any taxes. In that sense, in all the budgets we've done in these 15 years, we've taken a citizen to the center, we've taken the benefit of the people to the center, and we've always made budgets to bring services to the citizens while we're making budgets. Now, I'm surprised here when I listen to some conversations. I mean, what kind of budget was there in this country in the 2000s or before we came to government? You make a budget, half goes to interest. What do we understand? Whatever was left, God bless them. They'd be spent.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0226par0427	They were undertaxed, so half of them go there. We're getting a lot of taxes now, but...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0428	But right now...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0227par0429	He's going for the gun.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0430	Where's more than 90 percent of the budget spending going, guys? He's going to the citizen, he's going to training...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0228par0431	He's going for the gun, the gun.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0229par0432	It goes to 112 billion weapons.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0433	He's going to health, he's going to the infrastructure investment, he's going to the hospital, he's going to the dam, he's going to the road.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0229par0434	112 billion...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0435	Dear friends, friends told me. What budget is this?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0230par0436	It's a war budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0231par0437	War budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0438	This budget is a counterterrorism budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0232par0440	It's a war budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0441	In order to fight terrorism, we need to secure our country's internal...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0232par0442	Where are you going to throw the S-400?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0443	...to ensure the external security of our country...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0233par0444	If you can't solve the problems, you'll have a war budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0445	...from this country's budget to the fullest. We have no war with anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0234par0446	You have a war with people.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0447	We, yes, have a fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0235par0448	Where are you going to use the S-400, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0449	In order to fight terrorism, we will support ourselves to the full extent of defense, whatever resources our security units need. But this budget is a citizen's budget. From this budget to the poor, to the disabled, to all the disadvantaged groups, for the first time in the period of the AK PARTY governments, the services are going. I used to...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0236par0450	It's never been done before you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0451	Dear friends, calm down, why are you doing this?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0237par0452	You're making fun of me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0453	Listen carefully, don't make me scream like Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0238par0454	I was very calm in my speech.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0455	I mean, Mr. Paylan came out here, screaming and yelling, trying to talk. That won't be necessary, let's calm down.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0239par0456	Mr. Secretary, please, let's not bother with the character.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0238par0457	Morality, morality, tax ethics...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0458	So, dear friends...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0240par0459	Mr. Secretary, you shout, you shout.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0223par0460	So, dear friends -- we salute Mr. Pine from there -- our budget is a budget that gives the worker and the employee resources, along with him, to serve him, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0241par0461	The rich man's budget...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0242par0462	What's with the worker, the worker? There's a raise for the worker, Mr. Secretary, nothing more.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0243par0463	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0464	Hopefully, our budget is a budget that also serves our Roma citizens. Our budget has been a budget that almost serves the public, almost the citizen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0245par0465	For example, what's the tax rate on fuel, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0466	In that sense, friends, who owns the satisfaction of the budget? It belongs to the citizen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0245par0467	What are the tax rates in water, in natural gas, in electricity? How will you serve the citizen?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0468	For fifteen years, look, this year, my friends -- listen to this specifically, keep this in mind -- the AK PARTY governments have budgeted 16 times. We're doing it, we're signing the 16th budget right now. He's never been in any government. So we're doing the right thing, so we're with the citizen. The government, which has been doing this budget for fifteen years, has supported and supported the AK PARTY governments every time, has been there for you, has been there for you, has supported you on your hard day.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0246par0469	In the election of deceit...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0470	We've always been there for the citizen, so let me express that in particular.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0246par0471	Don't cheat the choices, let's go out there and see.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0472	Guys, how many times have we been out there? Every time we showed up, people scored everybody's points in the square...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0246par0473	Every election, there's a cat in the transformer for some reason.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0247par0474	Congressmans, we're listening to the Minister, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0475	And according to those points, God has given us our 16th budget. Good luck with that. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The 16th budget is not for everyone. Hopefully, I wish for a number of 16th budgets. Here, hopefully, the budget that we'll be doing in 2018 will serve our citizens, a budget that will support disadvantaged groups, social groups.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0248par0476	We're very proud of our Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0247par0478	Congressmans, let's keep our silence, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0479	Now, dear friends, another matter, since we're discussing the Finance Ministry budget today. I've had a twenty-nine-year service at the Treasury Department, and as a bureaucrat here, we've rotted, served, worked, we've learned, we've learned, our friends and I have experienced the difficulties of the 1990s as officers. God has blessed me, to this day as Minister, I have been blessed with this budget. I want to thank Mr. President, our Prime Minister, our entire House group, our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When I took office at the Treasury Department in 1989 -- which I started as a financial inspector -- I never forget...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0249par0482	You couldn't get an officer's salary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0483	No, we were on the payroll, there's no problem. I never forget. Our former Finance Minister is here. At the time, you know, there was the Finance Investigator Board, there was the Board of Accounting Experts, there was the President of Finance Controllers, and there were tax inspectors, and everyone would say the same thing: "Oh, there are three boards at the same time, the control departments are multi-headed, there's a dissolution in the audit. I mean, there's a tax audit going on, but at the same time, there are four audit units doing tax audits without a common plan and without a program, and when they're being audited, they're not actually very professionally audited. What should we do? Let's put these boards together. How many friends are they? In 1989, in Tandoğan, I remember this being said at a meeting with all the members of the Ministry in the agricultural bank's meeting room, where a large participant attended. But look, the matter of the merger of these boards didn't take place until 2011, and in fact, the accountant's and the finance inspector's and the income controller's will say the same thing to the minister if I ask him. This multi-headed structure must be removed. We implemented it in 2011, and for the first time in 2011, we assembled all the control units under one roof, and it's not just a single roof, it's really the first time we've established a Tax Control Board that has changed the face of tax control, changed the approach to control, and based on the rights of the taxpayer. God has ordained that as the undersecretary of this board, I have both an opinion and a zealous share. Six years later, we're entering the year 2018. When this new structure is compared to the previous structures in the tax audit, is it a forward or a reverse? You have to look at this, it's important. The issue of tax control is really important because I know how much the taxpayer, the citizen, is afraid of tax control. When a tax audit employee calls or an article comes in, it's really scary, it's scary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0250par0486	He's not shy anymore.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0487	I wonder if I'll be in trouble. I agree with such concerns. I mean, I've been on that side of the table. So we've always said, let the rights and the rights of the citizen and the law of the taxpayer and the law be in the center, and let the Tax Control Board work with it. An understanding that sees a citizen as a tax evasion in the first place is not a right mentality, and as we've established the Tax Control Board, and in these last six years, we've always prioritized this with the laws that we've passed, the regulations that we've made. Now, Mr. Kuyoglu has spoken here, thank you. His sensitivity to this matter is important to me, and I don't doubt that we share the same sensibilities, just different approaches. So there's a very nice saying in the management organization literature: if an institution, a board, an organization can't keep up with the change in the environment and domestic needs, if it can't change itself and transform itself, then change and transformation will come to your door one day. I just told you, in 1989, you're going to express this need, and by 2011, you're going to stop all the steps taken at the meeting point, or you're going to try to avoid them somehow. Why? With a central understanding. So first me, then Turkey, then me, then the taxpayer. No, guys, it's not like that. So God is a witness, when we established the Tax Control Board, our goal was this: citizen first. I mean, what does a citizen know about an inspector, an accountant, a citizen? He sees a supervisor in front of a citizen. If he's respected, if he's good at his job, if he's good at his job, if he's good at his rights and his law, if he's got control of the evidence in his favor, then his respect for the state, the government, the nation goes up. What does having four separate titles in this consciousness mean to a citizen? But if you look at it this way: let's form a group of privileged groups, let's form a group of privileged groups that have no standards, no rules, no rules, let them turn a ball on themselves in the public-private sector as they please, so be it. I can say a lot more, but I'm not. Thus, the issue of the establishment of the Tax Control Board in the Finance Ministry is a transformation of mentality, a change of understanding, and an understanding that takes the citizen to the centre. What did we do in 2011? There were four titles, we reduced them to one title, tax inspector. So it's none of your business that he's titled A, B, C? It doesn't matter. We said, "Let's go out in front of the town with a single title. This is not going back; this is, in fact, an important step forward. There used to be four separate units of planners, separate inspection plans. A poor taxpayer in a tax office gave a tax audit to an accountant, started an examination; on the other hand, a review would come from the IRS Board, or there'd be an inspection at the tax office, a revenue controller, a financial inspector would come to the same inspection. Can you imagine, in one ministry, four separate units work like four different ministries? Is that right? We united it under one structure. The citizen complained. My brother examined revenue controller three months ago, and now the tax inspector is looking at it three months later." he said: "O my people! Why? No one knew what the other was doing. Is that right? So we've made an arrangement here based on the rights of the taxpayer. Mr. Kusoglu said here that the Minister of Finance cannot explain the audit results of the Tax Control Board. I urge Kuşoglu to answer from here. The Tax Control Board's Action Report for 2016 and this action report are available publicly on the Internet. And it says that you've done 6,000 studies. No, friends, very clearly, the Treasury Tax Control Board did 49 thousand reviews in 2016, 49 thousand reviews in one year. So, in 2011, before the Tax Control Board was established, how many boards were made in 2011? It's 16 grand. You know what he's telling me? Some of our friends aren't being tested here. There's no inspection, and they're shouting out loud here, and we're gonna be scared when we scream out loud. We've come from 16,000 to 49,000, so we've significantly increased the tax audit over the last six years. Let me start by saying that I'm not picking on anyone, so don't start picking on me right now, and I'll make that very clear.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0251par0492	We know who you're picking on, Minister, we know.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0252par0493	I'm not picking on anyone. Does that mean he wasn't bullied?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0494	Dear friends, you know those four boards back in the day, four boards, what's their number? 4,900 people were working, 4,900 people. What's the number of tax inspectors on the IRS right now, friends? 8.200. Why are our study numbers increasing? Because we've doubled our control capacity. So there's no inspection here, no fighting off the off-the-book economy. Greetings to those who say. We've also increased the number of controllers, increased the reviews and inspections. Then, there was one thing we bragged about. We had our famous co-worker upbringings, my friend. We've been raising deputies in subsidiaries. They were called subsidiaries, but some of them didn't get any audits. What's the point, dear? They're the ones who don't get control. But they're the ones who actually need the most control training, because they're the ones who do the most auditing. From the moment we established the Tax Control Board... you're all leaving Eskişehir Road today, there's a huge training center for the Tax Control Board in front of the People's Bank. It's also in the activity report here, and for the first time in Turkey, we're teaching tax inspectors high-quality education with standards set. What are we training? We teach tax legislation, we train professional standards, we train taxpayer rights. The first thing we teach you is the rights of the taxpayer first. A supervisor who doesn't know his rights, doesn't care about his rights, never looks out for the citizen under his supervision. Was there a pre-existing education in rights education? Before that, was there a standard for pay-per-view? Regarding tax control, see, at the educational centre of the Tax Control Board, which I'm talking about now on the way to Eskişehir, 2,000 auditers receive training each year with standards preset. So we're also getting an expertise here. We've opened portals to ensure their rights. Now, the citizen can see for himself every step of the self-control, and now, at every stage, friends -- those who know it -- are able to defend itself better at every stage of the audit. He used to be an accountant, an inspector, writing a report, so is it possible to see? You'd better come forward and see. It'd be called. It's not like that now, folks. We're giving you a draft of the report. Before the tax audit report is completed, the taxpayer sees the draft audit report on him. In the past, could a citizen defend himself? Go, defend it in court. It was called. Now we say that even if the report is written, he will be able to defend himself against the report in the report assessment boards established by the Tax Control Board. Now, we've made changes to the Tax Code so the taxpayer can defend himself. From here, friends say: "Where did the tax control go? " I know that past. You'll get the review, you'll keep it waiting for three years. I went to the army. I went abroad. I went on a picnic. I went there, I went here, I said. Poor citizen would have waited three years and four years before the tax audit was over. Mr. Kusoglu, in six months, citizens have to finish their audit, depending on the type of audit, at the most, in a year. So don't ever bet on control. There's a lot of things we've done in the audit bet -- I'm not going to be polemic here, I'm a person who's done this -- there's a lot of things we've done in the audit, and there's still work to be done. Let's face it, let's give up that old understanding. We trust our citizens, we believe our citizens. We need to help him fulfill his tax obligations, we need to treat him with good intentions. Control is the power of the state, but it's no one's right or place to turn control into pleasure, and neither is the auditer, and the Finance Ministry will abide by the taxpayer's rights and laws until the end of their tax audit. From that point on, the Tax Control Board structure has been a tax-controlled structure that has pushed Turkey forward, increased efficiency in fighting the informal economy, and has indeed contributed to the spread of taxes and the development of preventive control. We've got a lot more to do, so we're going to do a lot more work on developing, developing, and implementing the professional skills of tax inspectors. Now, my friends tell me: "Do you fight against the non-registered economy?" A month ago -- I think it's the same -- and if it's called late, it's right -- we got a mandate and a mandate from Parliament at the point of building a risk analysis center. In fact, tax control has to have a risk analysis centre of the IRS administration at the point of fighting tax evasion or unregistered economics, because it's really necessary for both tax audits to be done correctly, and those who do not want to pay their taxes knowingly, as Mr. Paylan said, need to be monitored by the entire economy in a much faster, much more efficient way, and the records need to be monitored. But I'm sorry, Mr. Paylan. I mean, have you used the laws that have not been given to us here, Mr. Finance Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0253par0501	Let's do the law together.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0502	So where do you think we can argue about asking the question? I mean, how long should it be, how long should it be, how far should the border go, how far should it go, what should it all be done to ensure and protect its legality, but as we develop the tax control capacity here, as we look closely at the records and documents related to the taxpayers, I always call it a deterrent and deterrent taxmant. It's not about catching him after he doesn't pay his taxes, it's about stopping him from doing it in the first place. And the way to do that is to know more about the taxpayer, to monitor the taxpayer's economic activities, and to say to him, "Yes, I am watching your activities," I know. You call me IRS. That's what I'm saying. Why? Same thing. So what the IRS is doing is the same thing that we want to do right now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0253par0503	Then do it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0504	We are, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0253par0505	Where do you do it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0506	So here, friends...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0253par0507	The IRS says, "Where did you find it?"
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0254par0508	Mr. Paylan, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0509	Friends, you did this to each other here, I didn't do this. There's no need to get into the discussion. The common responsibility and duty of all of us is to take our homeland further, to do better things, to give citizens the value and importance they need. So what we're going to do now is we're going to make a distinction: an understanding that sees all the taxpayers as guilty in the first place, an understanding that's been through the years. We're leaving that understanding. We're going to trust the citizen, we're going to believe the citizen, we're going to share information with the citizen, and I believe that when the citizen is approached, when he is informed, he is actually extremely willing to comply with the tax. How do I know? As the Treasury Department, we share information that we collect from time to time with the taxpayers, and we see that if you share information with the taxpayers, what does the taxpayer do? He's giving you a positive answer. This is extremely important. I'll tell you that in particular. Again, it was said here, dear friends, why did you bring the peace of existence? Yes, we did it to bring our citizens abroad to Turkey. It's as if it's said that Turkey is the only one in the world who's ever made such an arrangement as the peace of existence, and no other country has. What do they all do today from the most advanced countries -- the last United States is doing now -- to many countries?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0255par0512	You couldn't do anything?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0256par0513	He gets 15 percent tax.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0514	Friends, it's a political choice whether to collect taxes or not.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0255par0515	You haven't done anything in over a year, and it hasn't gone a step.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0257par0516	Do it every year.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0517	This arrangement is against international law, as it is, and so it is. You said, Mr. Bacheloroglu,
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0255par0518	That's what we said.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0519	What was the result? This arrangement by Turkey has been assessed in the OECD, and has been confirmed in accordance with all international law norms.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0255par0521	What have you done with the Fund of Being? You've changed presidents, you've done nothing else.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0522	I'm surprised how blind we are, how judgmental are we, Mr. Bachelor? Mr. Bachelor, I'm really surprised. Let's keep our vision a little wider, friends, let's get rid of our old habits, see what's going on in the world, see what's going on, what's going on in the international world, what's going on, what's happening in Turkey. Of course, it's a matter of vision. In that vision, hopefully, I think everyone will come to that point somehow. Again, a few things have been said here, especially about growth.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0258par0524	Who's growing up?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0525	So you got 11 percent in growth in 2017, so, what's going to happen, it's 1 percent. Something like that has been said. Dear friends, I mean, there's no need for any polemics. Turkey's economy grew over 7 per cent in the first three quarters of 2017. This growth has not only remained in one or two sectors, one and two, all alone. There's been a widespread growth in all sectors. If we look at it this way, the growth that occurred in 2017 is also very important, especially in terms of growth based on investment, export and production. We grew 11 percent in the third quarter of 2017. This growth rate, to me, is not only important for the third quarter of 2017, but it's actually very promising for the year 2018.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0259par0527	Mr. Secretary, what did we grow up to produce? What did we do to grow up?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0528	So the Turkish economy has been growing four quarters in a row since the fourth quarter of 2016. If you put aside the low coup attempt on July 15th, the economy of Turkey has continued to grow for decades before the third quarter of 2016. This shows: Turkey's economy will continue this growth trend in 2018. Particularly in investment spending, the improvements in machine equipment spending in the third quarter are crucial. The point at capacity use rates today now sends the investor a message: What do you have to do? Since you've come to high levels of capacity use, you need to invest more. As a matter of fact, additional investments have been receiving signals since the second quarter.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0260par0530	Dream, dream.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0531	First, we saw an increase in construction spending, a high rate increase in machine equipment spending in the third quarter. Hopefully, friends, in the year 2018, 2017, where there was growth, investment, employment... Will you give me a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0261par0534	If you want it, if you demand it, I'll think about it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0535	Yeah, a few minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0261par0536	Well, one moment, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0537	Mr. President, thank you. Hopefully, by the end of this year, we'll get some good results on the 2017 budget. There's a discipline as EC PARTY governments that we've provided for budget performance over the last 15 years, and we've achieved a success. And at the end of this year -- and I've noted the talks here -- you'll see that our budget will demonstrate a more successful performance than we anticipated in the mid-term program. At the end of the year, despite all the talk about budget discipline here, we're going to see a result that shows that the success graph for the AK PARTY governments is actually continuing in the budget balance.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0262par0539	Worst year, worst year.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0540	2018 will be a year in which growth continues, investment, production, employment, exports increase, wave waves spread across the country.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0263par0541	1 percent...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0244par0542	I wish that the budget of 2018 would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0264par0544	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0265par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0264par0546	Mr. Akçay had already asked for a word, I'll take turns, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0265par0547	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0266par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a reminder of a few things. This extra interest-free work was launched by the end of 1999, with social security reforms, but the latest government of the 57th government in 2002 gave more than 3.4 per cent of the national income as a ratio to the current Justice and Development Party government at the end of 2002. That's over 3.4 percent out of interest. Now, if we look at the 2017 Central Timed Program and programme-defined documents, it is expected to be 1.5% off interest by the end of 2017.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0267par0555	Complete, please. I'll give you an additional minute, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0266par0556	That's about $45 billion. Yes, the corporate tax has been reduced from 30 per cent to 20 per cent, and we know on what conditions it has been downloaded. Last November, you must also remember that you went from 20 to 22. So that's the kind of thing that happens in finance policy practices. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0268par0559	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0269par0562	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Finance Minister, they're talking about my inspection, as if we're afraid. The location of the opposition is not to frighten the power or the Finance Minister, but to criticize, to tell him what is missing, what he sees. The problem is, not to build modern buildings or train, but there may be some things that are actually more fancy words, but especially the Finance, which is usually being audited to control the people, brings tax pardons that we don't even know the number of the richest people in power, and also the tax evasion with the bag laws, to the islands, to the islands, where the control of the money that escapes there, and it's like it's being regulated by a legal arrangement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0270par0565	Didn't the HDP Group support restructuring laws?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0269par0566	I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0271par0567	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0269par0568	Now, according to OECD data, we are one of the countries where indirect taxes on consumption are really the highest, and in democratic countries, direct taxes are high. Unfortunately, what you say is that the words, such as,,bina, do not change the fact that this country is the 78th ranking in the Happiness Index. There's also a very important matter, Mr. President, which I'd like to express to you, especially because there is something in the House that requires an exchange of opinions. A report has been reported today that an arrangement for subcontractors will be carried out with the KHK. Now, this is really an arrangement that concerns hundreds of thousands of people, and doing so will open the way for other important arrangements to be made. Before the House goes on vacation, in fact, we all agree that this arrangement is to be discussed and to please everyone... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, let me finish, one sentence, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0272par0572	But finish it, look, it's been three minutes, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0269par0574	This arrangement must be carried out in a manner that will really please everyone before the House takes a vacation. Otherwise, when we enter the new year, our people will be seriously victims. Compromising subcontractors with KHK is never a way. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0272par0576	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0579	Thank you. I have a short supply and a request. We listened to our Minister of Finance. Finance is important, so it's an organization that collects money and spends it properly. I wonder, if I had money now, if I wanted interest, I'd take it and deposit it in the bank; no, if I keep my money at home, I don't want interest. And yet, now, the money in these famous shoeboxes was held back for a while, and then the government paid interest for it. Now, from the Minister, I think, and the public conscience, I wonder how much interest the government's finances have paid for this money, which is what it's called. My motion is this: Mr. Minister, in his speech, our Istanbul MP and also Mr. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, who was a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, also accused himself of having no vision...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0274par0583	No way.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0275par0584	No, no.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0585	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0274par0586	I didn't make that statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0587	He made a heavy taunt.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0274par0588	I've never had a look like that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0276par0589	Go ahead, finish up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0590	If accusing a congressman of lack of vision in front of 80 million isn't a taunt, I'll leave his appreciation to your conscience.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0274par0591	I certainly didn't make that statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0592	Mr. Bacheloroglu, we demand an answer, a word of bullying. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0277par0594	Mr. Altay, of course, accusing a congressman of lack of vision is a reason to pick on him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0595	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0278par0596	But it didn't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0277par0597	But Mr. Agbal has not made such an accusation against Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0273par0598	It's been found, everybody's heard.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0279par0599	How come he wasn't found? The whole room heard it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0280par0600	No.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0601	No, look, I listened very well, Mr. Altay. First, he made a statement about a speech by Mr. Bachelor. I thought that even Mr. Bachelor would ask for an explanation -- and then, in general, we should expand our vision.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0280par0602	I mean, in a positive sense.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0282par0603	Two minutes, it's over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0604	Mr. Bachelor, please, the Minister is here now, so if he means you, let him make his statement...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0282par0605	He gave me a name, how come he didn't mean it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0606	If that's what he means, then of course I'll promise you because of the bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0283par0607	Well, it is, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0608	Wait a minute... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0284par0610	Mr. President, I certainly didn't use an expression that he understood and meant by Mr. Bacheloroglu. On the contrary, in a positive sense, to have a vision to move the country forward... I said we'd all hope to come together to this vision.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0611	Yes, that's what he said, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0285par0612	That's not the case, but I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0613	There's nothing about you. I'll give you my word on your position for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0286par0615	Mr. President, it's not over, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0281par0616	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0286par0617	Here's the thing: we have a request for a correction for Mr. Kusoglu. Speaking on behalf of our group's Finance Ministry budget, Mr. Kusoglu said that he gave misinformation to parliament and the nation, Mr. Secretary. It's not a tease, but it's a prophylactic.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0287par0618	Right.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0286par0619	If you don't mind, Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0288par0620	Okay, now I'm going to give it to Mr. Bachelor, and I'm going to give it to Mr. Kuyoğlu for another minute. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. Your time is one minute, and I won't be long, so please wrap it up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0289par0624	Mr. President, my dear friends, we have criticised the Entity Fund both in the Plan and Budget Commission and in two aspects of the General Assembly. One: To establish the existential Fund, there must be a presence, as in other examples, either more than foreign trade or more than natural gas, a wealth of oil, an assessment of this presence for future generations. That's what it's built for. We called it the Entity Fund. Our second criticism is that this asset Fund is wrong to be abducted from the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because they mentioned $200 billion, we said that $200 billion should be under the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's what we do. It's not like I have no vision. Besides, we're going to put assets in the asset fund, and we're going to mortgage them, and we're going to tell them it's wrong. If such a quest is a vision, we have nothing to say to the Minister.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0290par0627	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0291par0628	Yes, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kusoglu, I'll give you my word later. Just a minute, Mr. Secretary, and I promise you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0292par0632	Mr. Bachelor, it seems you didn't follow my speech very carefully at the time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0293par0633	Look, you didn't follow him, you say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0292par0634	I didn't start sentences by referring to the asset fund. Let's get the transcripts if you want.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0294par0635	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0292par0636	I mentioned the Peace Act, I didn't mention the Fund of Being, and the arrangement you referred to as peace of existence, you repeatedly claimed it was against international law when it was discussed in the Commission and the General Assembly. I spoke in exchange for your arguments there and in the context of asset peace. That's why Mr. Bacheloroglu had to come up and tie up a matter about the Turkish asset fund that I never mentioned to him... and I'll be honest with you, he didn't listen very carefully. Listen carefully to the finance ministers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0295par0638	That didn't happen, that didn't happen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0296par0639	He said peace of existence, Mr. Bachelor. Yes, Mr. Kuyoglu, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0297par0642	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0298par0643	So it's true what I said about the Entity Fund, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0296par0644	We're listening to Mr. Kusoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0298par0645	Our criticism of the asset fund is correct.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0296par0646	I promised Mr. Kusoglu. Let's be respectful, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0299par0647	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0300par0649	I told him about the presence of peace.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0301par0650	We'll also discuss the peace of existence, who's got money, where it came from, what islands it came from...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0302par0651	Mr. Bacheloroglu, I promised Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0301par0652	We'll talk about all of this, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0303par0653	You're wasting your time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0302par0654	Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0301par0655	We'll talk about all this. We'll talk about how taxes are missing, all of them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0303par0656	You're wasting your time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0302par0657	Mr. Bachelor, please... it's a shame, but it's a shame for Mr. Kuyoğlu. I promised, he started promising. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0304par0659	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanation. The numbers I took on the audit, the figures I gave you, they were from the IRS's operating report.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0305par0662	He's the head of the IRS...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0304par0663	He was talking about $6.182, 150 million worth of research, and I gave them to him. It's my wish that the tax audit should be effective, and you know it, more or less -- we come from similar places -- should be more effective, but the taxpayers in the market are not the same people. In particular, the taxpayers pay taxes on institutions, institutions pay taxes at a rate of 60-70 per cent to the first thousand taxpayers, institutions pay taxes. For him, we need much higher-level supervisors, different audit staff. The Board of Accounting Experts, the Finance Investigation Committee, were the institutions that functioned in this sense, and they had the growing savings. They destroyed this savings.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0305par0665	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0666	Is it over, Mr. Kuyoglu?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0304par0667	My time is up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0668	Okay. Here's a minute for you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0307par0671	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll inform the General Assembly here. Mr. Kuşoglu has mentioned that differences between their statements and the taxpayers need different auditers to do separate inspections for different taxpayers in terms of tax control. But remember, Mr. Kuşoglu, the Tax Control Board is a board, but there are four different groups in it that are not in any of the previous boards. There's a separate, specialized, standardized group of presidents to conduct inspections of the large-scale taxpayers you're referring to. Again, there's a separate group that deals with transfer pricing and international trade, even though it's never been before. Again, there's a separate control group for small and medium-sized businesses. And then there's the group presidents who have never been involved in fighting organised tax evasion. So what you're saying is that we didn't see the need for expertise in one pole, we saw the need for four poles.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0673	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0674	Mr. President, a brief statement, please. Did you just...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0675	Congressmans, we're not in the QA department, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0676	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0677	We need to keep an eye on our agenda. In the QA, you ask the necessary explanations and questions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0678	I demand it according to 60, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0679	What is it, what are you going to explain?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0680	I'd like an explanation on an important matter according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0681	What's your topic?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0682	I want to make a statement about the subcontractor, because the Minister has not made a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0683	We're not interviewing the subcontractor right now, we're negotiating the Finance Ministry budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0684	Sir, it's important. They say Congress is going on vacation tomorrow. Look, it's been claimed that there'll be a public contractor by the beginning of the year.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0685	Mr. Timbercioglu told me about it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0686	But Mr. Secretary didn't answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0687	Right now, Congress is discussing the budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0688	But Mr. Secretary didn't answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0689	That's not on the agenda either.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0690	But tomorrow the House will be on vacation, tomorrow the House will be on vacation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0691	Ask him in the QA, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0692	Tomorrow the House will be on vacation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0306par0693	Ask him in the QA, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0308par0694	We have information that the House will be on holiday tomorrow. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0309par0726	On behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Osman Love Bak will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0310par0730	Mr. President, I'm here to present the National Management Budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for 2018 years and to discuss the Final Account for 2016. I hereby salute our General Assembly, all members of our General Assembly, and our great nation. Before we begin the budget talk, last Monday, Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, a former prime minister who sent his son, Yavuz Yilmaz, to eternity, and to my fellow countrymen, Mr. Mesut Yilmaz Sir, sends my wishes once again to his wives and relatives, asking for God's mercy on the deceased. As the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we aim to better prepare our young ones for life through our activities and services in the field of youth and to spend the most efficient period of development between childhood and adulthood. The budgets that we need for projects and activities in 2018, which we plan to carry out in our ministry in recent years, are $191,322,000 for the central agency units, $1 billion,284,88,000 for the Sports General Directorate, and 13 billion 889 million for the General Directorate of Higher Education Credits and Homes. As the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I'd like to first pass on developments in our Credit and Homes Association. In 2002, our ministry reached the total number of beds of 182,258 beds in 77 districts and 59 counties, as of 18/12/2017, 81 counties, 243 districts and 762 dorms in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In 2017 alone, we opened 127 95,376-capacity dorm buildings. Mr. Secretary is here, and I thank him, and I thank him very much for his efforts, along with his team. Now, as the Credit Homes Association in 2013, we're going to get our 277,000 beds to 367 thousand in 2014, 455,000 in 2015, 556 in 2016, and more in late 2017 -- we've got more countries to complete -- 650,000. Our goal is to move this number to over 860,000, 900,000 in 2020. Of course, we'd like to thank everyone here who's trying, who's supportive. Now, we've been given a review of student placement rates. This year, 392,329 of our students have applied to settle in the dorms, and we've placed 327,136°, so the settlement rate is 83.41 percent. So at this point, we thank all those who carry the number here in 2013 with support. Now, let me give you some information on housing production on campuses. Now, in 2016 and 2017 alone, we have built a country within the campus. We've built 22 dorms, 38,157 beds in these dorms. Now, our goal is to keep building dorms inside campuses, to raise that number. Next year, in 2018 and 2019, we will continue to build dorms on university campuses in the cities where we have trouble placing students, especially major cities, including Istanbul, Ankara, Antalya, İzmir and other cities. That's why we contacted the universities. We've had contacts before, and we'll continue to build dorms like this. So what's the advantage of that? The advantage for our student is one: the student doesn't waste time on the road. Two, a student doesn't pay a fee for a bus ride. Third, it's even safer, which means we have security on campus and the safety of the university. Thus, we make preparations in our homes for our students to live in better conditions, better dwellings. So, what else did we do? We've increased the amount of loans we've given the students. It was 45 liras in 2002, and it went up to 470 euros today -- from the beginning of 2018. So we give scholarships and loans to students who apply to us -- 1,650,000 students now -- to everyone who's applying. At this point, we thank our Ministry of Finance. So, what else did we do? Food help. Daily, we give students breakfast and dinner. So, as of this year, we've increased our student's food allowance to 11 euros a day, so that when our child wakes up, he doesn't go to school without breakfast, and when he does, he eats 3 or 4 meals. Currently, we had four-star hotel-class dorms -- three rooms, four rooms; the old system had bunk beds -- 15 people, 20 people. We make new homes and increase comfort in them. Our students are pleased. In a study we've done on satisfaction, 3.56 out of 4. Thus, our students are pleased with us at this point, and we will continue to serve them. At this point, we rely on our young people, and we will continue to serve them because they are our future. The other thing -- it's mentioned here -- is dealing with drugs. Now, one of the things that we, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, are most concerned about is dealing with drugs. At this point -- and I've been saying since the day I arrived -- the most efficient way to fight drugs is to use the power of sports. So your $1 investment in sports comes back to you as $4, how does it come back? So, through sports, we move our young people to sports fields, we move them to pools, we move them to gyms, they're not on the streets. We're not going to give drug gangs on the streets this opportunity; we're going to continue to fight drugs with our amateur sports clubs, with our sports facilities, with our local administrations. Here's the power of sports: when we move our children into sports, he throws out his energy, he gets a environment, he gets discipline, so he's not alone, he's not in the environment where the drugs are, he's not in the environment where the drugs are, he's in the environment where they are. We're moving them to environments where they're safer, improve themselves, improve their health. What else do we do? A healthy generation is important in our investment in our children. Our greatest strength is our manpower, our young ones. We trust our young people. So that's why young people who work out go to fewer doctors, get less sick, less drugs, less movies. Thus, along with a healthy generation, we are rewarded. At this point, our amateur sports clubs... And I'm a guy from an amateur sports club, I run amateur sports clubs, I've been president of the federation, I've been manager of most clubs, I've been in professional clubs. One of the most important areas to touch our young people is these sports clubs. At this point, as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we make basketball hoops between the neighborhoods, amateur sites, sports Toto Agency, Sports General Directorate, and local authorities, we bring these facilities into our country. So our young people, our young people, who are tomorrows in this country, are taking advantage of these facilities. We have about 13,000 amateur clubs. I joined the General Assembly of the Confederacy of Amateur Sports Clubs last month. We've discussed their problems with them in this General Assembly. In these discussions, we also told them: "Show us a place, together with the local authorities, and let's put you in the field, and let's move more young people to sports facilities, because that's the most important argument in dealing with drugs, fighting bad habits. We want to use the uniting power of sports, the power of sports. Look, in 2017, we gave our amateur sports clubs the same aid as 192.100 track suits, 189,400 T-shirts and shorts, 187,740 raincoats, 186,950 sports bags and so on. And we've paid $13 million in cash. I mean, we help amateur clubs. We'll continue by increasing that. With the support of our Sports Toto Agency presidency, with the support of our Sports General Directorate and with the local authorities. Other than that, our congressmen have expressed here, the fight against doping. I was president of the Anti-Doping Commission last semester. Doping is the cancer of sports. At this point, there were 176 specimens in 2013, which were rapidly overcoming the problems we experienced in the fight against drugs in 2013. So, at this point, I thank the Minister, who was at the point of counter-doping, in 2014, in 2015, and in 2016, in 2017, at the point of zero tolerance. I'd like to thank him and his team. At the same time, we've drafted a bill for the fight against drugs, and hopefully we'll bring him to the House. We want your support at this point, because we need to get this cancer, this cancer of sports out of here. Then something was said about the illegal bet. In connection with the illegal bet, we, the head of the Sports Toto Agency, have requested some arrangements. You've supported these arrangements, and we thank you very much at this point. The first major step in the current fight against illegal betting is the change of the law in 2013. With this change, prison sentences for illegal betting have been increased, and for the first time, fines have been brought to those who bet illegally. Then, the President of the Sports Toto Agency decided to block access to hundreds of illegal betting sites. All reports of illegal betting sites have been carefully evaluated, criminal charges are filed for those who have been found to have made illegal wagers, and public cases related to them are being followed as. A working group led by our ministry and the Ministry of Finance has been formed, and an action plan has been prepared as part of the fight against illegal betting. As a result of the changes made in the issues agreed on in this action plan, the investigation authorities' powers under illegal betting have been increased, and it is possible to conduct a deeper and healthier investigation. It is known that the biggest reason to increase the appeal of illegal bet is to play games with higher bonus distribution rates. Hence, sports Toto Agency's presidency studies on reorganising bonus distribution rates for games that are being played, providing competitive advantage, and thus reducing illegal bet and preventing public loss. There's been some criticism about the franchise cancellations, and I'll tell you at this point. Our organization's presidency is of great importance in the framework of the responsible betting principles of the betting games and the fact that it will not harm the social structure. In this scope, department-owned franchises are regularly audited and are cancelled by those who have been declared to be in violation of the legislation. Between 2007-2017, a total of 1,432 Sports Toto dealerships were cancelled. The reason for this is that most of these closed dealerships have found that they perform illegal verbs such as playing games with children under 18 years of age, illegal gambling and gambling. Now, one of the places where we meet our young people is our youth centers. The number is now up to 280, and we intend to increase it to over 300 in the next year. At this point, young people get together, they get together in various activities, they play sports, they do cultural events, they do artistic events. At the same time, we also live here with young people in the digital environment, where we do robotic studies with young people, and we continue to be with them. Other criticisms were made regarding Law 6222. We conducted a very thorough study of Law 6222 with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. At this point, we've met with our clubs about the prevention of violence in sports, and we've considered a lot of issues about them from the training of fan groups to the increased punishments in the monitoring system. Pretty soon we'll be legalizing these, too. So at this point, we're asking for your support. We can never accept violence in sports, we can't approve of it, and we want an environment in which the spirit of sports is active. As for the sports facilities, the sports facilities, of course, were expressed by our friends. And when we look at the sports facilities inventory, there are now 3,488 sports facilities. One of them is a football field, one of whom is a gym, and so on. Previously, our number of sports facilities before 2002 was 1,575, and we built 1,913 sports facilities in just fifteen years. Why are we building these sports facilities? We do it for our young people to work out, to be more successful. Thus, Turkey is now the most invested country in sports in the world. At this point, we thank Mr. President, our Prime Minister, our governments. Really, every place we go, every county has facilities, sports halls; it's in the counties; it's in the cities; it's in the cities; it's even in the villages -- we're building sports fields so that our young people can get together with sports. On another subject: 2, 3. There's been some criticism about the league clubs, so, sports is about Toto's support for them. At the moment, our Turkish Sports Toto Agency paid all football clubs between 2004 and 17 dollars for the right of name only. We're meeting with our sports clubs, we're meeting with the Club Association, We've met with league clubs, and next week we'll have two. League Red Group, White Group 3. We're gonna get together with League Group One, Group Two and Group Three. They're not going to lose any income, and we're going to try to support them more. Other than that, of course, the most important thing for us is that we've had three meetings with the League of Clubs so far, and we've met with the Football Federation. We plan to make infrastructure investments together for the development of sports, for the development of football. How, when the German team failed, they invested a great deal in infrastructure, and we have to invest in infrastructure. We're discussing this with our clubs. We'll continue to support them at this point, in the field, in other matters. These young men are our young ones, we trust them. 2. And 3. We want the league clubs to be strong, and at that point, we're ready for any dialogue. But we have to remember that there have been issues about the debts of the clubs. There are administrative errors at this point, there are administrative errors, there are problems with club managers because they don't grow from the transfer point or the infrastructure, there are false transfers, there are some things at stake, but let's just say that we should invest in infrastructure for the development of Turkish sports, Turkish football; there are examples of this, there are examples of this, we've lived in the past. Hopefully, together, with our entire community, with all our clubs, we can solve this infrastructure problem... there are model clubs, we're looking, there's the Golden Army Club, it's successful at this point. Some clubs are investing. Bursaspor invests, Tripolispor invests. When we saw the scholarship-Trabzonspor game last week, we saw five players from infrastructure, and we were really proud of them, and we want them to grow. So for that, with the Football Federation... Mr. Saffet, our deputy, has brought up the matter of the military, and he's involved. I had the same problems when I was managing. I've discussed this with the Chief of Staff, our Secretary of Defense. The law states that Turkey is Professional 1. Or 2. He said that the professional football players in the football leagues... were on the squads. Here, of course, we need to add a minor league; we work together at this point. This requires a solution. But we need to remember that there have been some abuses in the past, and you know it, and we need to take steps together to prevent those abuses from happening. Other than that, our country is hosting many organizations with facilities being built. In recent months, we organized the European Basketball Championship, organized the Hearers' Olympics in Samsun, organized the Winter Olympics in Erzurum, and organized the Youth Olympics in Tripoli. (EA/DG) So our country has successfully carried out many organizations. At this point, we trust our young people, our clubs. Of course, it's sports politics, where we get everybody's support. There have been suggestions about sports clubs. We're interviewing the Sports Club Act with the Association and the other parties, and we're bringing him to Parliament. At this point, the will is formed, and with your support, we will bring you this law that will solve problems in Turkish sports, a solution. At that point, we expect your support. We, of course, want a growing, growing, powerful Turkey. At this point, we want our country to be successfully represented in the international arena. Hopefully, in the Olympics, and in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, we're doing the project and the work needed to achieve successful results. We have about 1,000 athletes in our pool right now, and we're all going to work together to get the Turkish flag to the top in the international arena, thinking of them as projects. We trust our young, we trust the young of our country. As the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we are always open to your criticism, suggestions. Thank you for your support. I offer everyone my respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0311par0765	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it's time for Mr. Selim Dursun of Sivas to speak for himself. Here you go, Mr. Dursun.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0312par0769	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018. I salute and cherish our Veteran Assembly and your grand delegation, our beloved nation. Dear MPs, the budget of 2018, where we have our ninth round talks, like our previous budgets, is a budget that aims to improve the prosperity and happiness of our nation, the growth and development of our country, the standard of our people's lives. Fifteen years of AK PARTY have been signed by successful and cautious policies during our administrations. We may have forgotten each of us, but to illustrate a few examples, six zeroes out of Turkish lira, zeroing the IMF debt, a 1.9 per cent reduction in interest costs from 14.4 per cent to 1.9 per cent in the last 15 years, so that our economy is at least affected by global crises in the third quarter of this year, has grown by 11.1 times three times in the last 15 years. Congressmans, I'd like to start with the young people who are going to take us to the future, the state that we inherited from our ancestors. I give them my thanks. On the night of July 15th, for our young people's homeland, flag and state, we all know how they stood up to the treacherous coupgers. So, we've given these young people the right to choose and be elected at the age of 18. Through the creation of youth centers, we continue our efforts to raise a strong youth who embraces, protects, protects, and improves national values, loves his family, his country, and his nation, has developed in artistic and sporting fields, and is responsible for society, combined with the sweat of the mind. Members of parliament, as a Credit House, studies continue for our students to receive better education and housing under better conditions. Mr. Minister has also mentioned that in our 190 dorms, 182,000 students have been able to have a bed capacity of 653,000 beds in 758 dorms as of today. By the way, Sivas thanks you for our 10,000 student-access home and the name of our Olympic champion, Taha Akgül, for our closed gym and for our stadium, and I wish you well, thank you to our Minister and to our fellow workers. Nearly 1,603,000 students are granted scholarships, loans. The scholarship fee, which is 45 liras in 2002, will be 470 liras in 2018. Our political understanding is that we keep people alive so that the government can live. Because our citizens are focused on the principle and on a prosperous life, our country's resources have been transferred to investments, not interest. With the confidence and support our beloved nation has given our AK PARTY for fifteen years, I hope we will work hard and build more, without losing financial discipline, to achieve our big and powerful Turkey goals. We thank our finance minister and all of our fellow workers, who have made our budget, all of our brothers and sisters who have worked hard from the past to the present. On this occasion, I salute our great House and our beloved nation with respect, respect, and conversation, in the hope that our budget of 2018 will be fulfilled in a way that will be beneficial to our country, to our region, to the oppressed, to the victims.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0313par0778	Thank you, Mr. Dursun.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0312par0779	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0313par0780	Congressmans, the talks on the ninth round are complete. Now we're going to do the QA. Our deadline is 20 minutes; ten minutes of this time is for the MPs to ask questions, and ten other minutes for the ministers to answer. Mr. Özdemir, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0314par0785	Thank you, Mr. President. With 11 percent growth figures on the agenda and a lot of references being made, inflation growth, increasing unemployment -- one of almost every four young people in particular is unemployed -- and the distribution of income is becoming increasingly unfair, but I want to talk to the Finance Minister here, especially the teachers. Mr. Minister, 95 per cent of teachers say they can't make a living because their salaries are poor; 20 per cent do additional work; more than 20 per cent say they owe loans, which is the most important find in the Teacher's Strategy Document, which your Ministry of National Education explains, is that teachers' reputation in society is getting lower. At this point, in the budget of 2018, in particular, will there be an arrangement for teachers who, of course, can't carry out their primary professions, can't be appointed, but teachers' salary? I'd like to ask our Minister of Youth and Sports. Here's the thing: you said that you care about dorms on college campuses, which, as far as I know, you've studied in England, where you know the status of campus universities. We, here, I don't remember how many colleges we've opened, frankly, like sign college...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0315par0791	Thank you. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0316par0793	Mr. Finance Minister, the watering of the Lower Seyhan Plain of Adana province, which has about 1,760,000 acres, must be transformed into a pressurised pipe network to address problems in the supply of watering water in the future. The average amount of watering water consumed in the Lower Seyhan Plain is 1,900 million cubic metres annually, and can only cover 1,510 million cubic metres of the required amount. At least 665 million cubic metres of water will be saved once the pressure pipe is switched to the network. Meanwhile, agricultural revenues worth around $600m are expected to be increased in additional 1 million per cent of agricultural land, which will be watered by renovations. It may be possible that the irrigation water from the plant was removed from the turbine to be converted into a pressurized pipe network. In this regard, the privatisation of Seyhan 1, Seyhan 2 and Güner Hydroelectric Power Plants, which was planned to be privatised by the Privatisation Administration Chairman, is of great importance. Sensitivity is very important for the region and country agriculture. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0317par0796	Thank you, too, Mr. Division. Mr. Rootsal instead of Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0318par0798	Mr. President, my question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports. Under the approval of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Sports General Directorate Facility Ad Verme regulations have given my constituency district, the sports complex and sports halls in Afyonkarahisar, the names of Kobtepe, Victory, Rawtiltepe and Tınaztepe. Why was his name not given to any facility in the land where the Republic was won, where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had punched the enemy like a sledgehammer? Mr. Secretary, is this going to come back wrong? I also want to point out that no one will be able to erase the love of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk from the heart, from the heart of our Afyonkarahisar citizens, if his name is not removed from the signs or given to the facilities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0317par0800	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0319par0801	Thank you, Mr. President. You've taken lemonade, soda, juice products into the OTV, so even a simple lemonade we know will get special consumption tax. You're getting an OTV from natural gas, sunscreen, but the diamond and the diamond are OTV zero. The yacht and the boat motors don't have an OTV, but our poor farmer's motor that's trying to harvest his product with a thousand years of hard work. Imagine the added value of a farmer's tractor in the country's economy, and the OTV-free diesel that a businessman's yacht burned down. Is that your justice, Mr. Secretary? So I ask you again, when are you going to end the suffering of our farmer using the world's most expensive diesel? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0320par0805	Thank you, too. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0321par0807	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports: All businesses in the Middle Middle-Sarigerme position look forward to the day when a sports complex is being made where sports clubs can camp. Does our Ministry of Youth and Sports have any work to do? My second question is to our Finance Minister: Muğla Agricultural District Directorate is writing a letter to the Ministry of Agriculture asking if the employees in the contract position under Article 4/B of State Officers' Code 657 can be paid for mobile duty compensation or temporary duty. The answer is that there will be no payment for the staff to be employed except under Article 3 of the Actual Court of Ministers, which determines the basics for the employment of contracted personnel, according to Article 3/6/1978's Council of Ministers' Decision 7/15754. From two agricultural engineers on the same road to 4/B, they're paid for when they're not paid for. Do you intend to settle this injustice?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0322par0810	Instead of Mr. Iron, Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0323par0811	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Secretary, was asked here again a year ago. When private administrations were closed in the cities, you transferred their property and employees to local authorities in that area. I asked you that day. In places where the Republican People's Party, such as Izmir and Mugla, is in power, you have transferred all property to the treasury, to you, or to the governors within your own body. But in other cities, in the provinces where AKP was in power, you looked at the provinces of Bursa, Tripoli, Balıkesir, and you handed them over to the local authorities there. So you gave our municipalities the employees, but you confiscated the property. What do you think of that? My second question to the Minister of Youth and Sports: When will the games be played in this Ataturk Stadium as Izmir? We'll be glad to hear from them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0324par0814	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0325par0815	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to Mr. Finance Minister: Mr. Minister, there are a lot of empty staff in Uça districts and districts of the property managers. Unfortunately, because of lack of staff, employees are unable to keep up with their jobs, so they are particularly demanding new staff. When are you going to assign new recruits? Two: Due to recent configurations, you know, there are firms or citizens who can't pay one or two installments for some of the configurations due to a serious economic distress. Do you plan to make a new arrangement to the people or companies whose configurations have been corrupted? My third question is, do you have any plans or policies about the bitcoin, which is digital money, or what do you think about it? Now my question to our Minister of Sports: Mr. Secretary, I just heard your speech. You also said that you have made many homes and increased the number of beds, and I appreciate that, but please continue to build these dorms until there are no more parish dorms. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0326par0821	Thank you, too. Mr. Kayan... No. To your place, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0327par0824	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Finance: economic pressure on the citizen is increasing every day. While ruling officials await the sacrifice of our citizens who are trying to live on minimum wage, it is not known how much the covered allowance is. Do you have a study on the average of the tax and insurance premium on minimum wage, and the reduction of indirect taxes, in order to compensate and increase employment in the income distribution? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0328par0827	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0329par0829	I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance: What is the reason for the removal of pictures of our country's ministry of finance, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the savior of our country and founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in the official sites of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology? Do you have any information about the removal of the Ataturk (Ataturk) from the ministries outside the ministries I count? If so, why don't you intervene? As Prime Minister, don't you feel uncomfortable with the removal of the pictures of Ataturk? When will you order the ministries to remove the image of Ataturk? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0328par0831	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0330par0832	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a question for the Minister of Youth and Sports: Mr. Erdogan Earth has counted the names of foreign athletes. When are you going to start raising local athletes? Are you prepared for this? Mr. Finance Minister: How much is the total amount of 15 years of privatisation, and what are the businesses in the privatisation programme in the coming process? What is the preparation for these things? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0331par0836	Mr. Ministers, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0332par0837	Twenty more seconds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0333par0838	Mr. President, ask the question-answer. You said, you didn't promise any questions or answers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0332par0839	Mr. President, my question is short.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0334par0840	Mr. Paylan, the questions are going into a system, and we're asking where we're going in that system in ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0333par0841	Mr. President, look, you're the Vice President who's made the least promises for 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0334par0842	Mr. Paylan, please... Mr. Ministers, please, I'm starting your response time. You have ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0335par0845	Dear President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Özdemir has made assessments of the revenue distribution. I'm not going to talk to the numbers that we've produced from our own statistical office.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0336par0847	It's not ours, it's the Gini coefficient...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0335par0848	I'd like to share with you the figures in the OECD study of OECD's revenue distribution of OECD member states.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0336par0849	Have you looked at the Gini coefficient of TÜİK?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0335par0850	See, there's a coefficient called the Gini coefficient, which shows that the income distribution is broken as you approach 1, and as you get to 0, the income distribution is improved. I can share it with you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0337par0851	It's been broken for five years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0336par0852	Yeah, yeah, it's going up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0853	It's getting worse.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0854	Look, in the 1980s, when this coefficient was 0.43 for Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0855	See from 2002 to 2015.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0340par0856	Congressmans, Mr. Özdemir, please... he's responding, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0857	In the 1990s, the number rose to 0.49, so in the 1990s there were years when the revenue distribution in Turkey broke down.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0858	It's even more broken now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0859	At this time, the number has declined to 0.39 in Turkey, so in 15 years when the EC PARTY was in office...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0860	Worse.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0861	...we face a better revenue distribution in Turkey than in the 1980s, much better than in the 1990s.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0341par0862	It's been breaking down for five years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0863	What about the fortune distribution?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0864	I'll tell you something more interesting. Look, guys, read these, follow these.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0338par0865	We're reading. What about the fortune distribution?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0866	The OECD, of course, did not evaluate Turkey alone in its work, but studied the change in income distribution of all OECD member states, and in this study, significant disruptions in income distribution in many OECD member countries, especially after the 2000s. In these countries, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Britain, Israel, the United States...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0342par0867	Don't, don't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0339par0868	So, look, in these OECD countries, there's been a decline in income distribution over the years of the 2000s, but in the last 15 years, the AK PARTY governments have made the distribution of income in our country much better than in the 1990s, than in the 1980s.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0343par0869	On the contrary, on the contrary!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0344par0870	You say the opposite.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0345par0871	It's been breaking down for five years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0346par0872	Guys, I'm not saying it, it's the statistics of OECD.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0345par0873	It's been breaking down for five years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0346par0874	Come on, you can't stand the statistics of the TÜİKbook, but what do you want with the statistics of the OECD? At least bear with them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0347par0875	Here are the statistics of the OECD.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0348par0876	Look at the definition of a Gini coefficient.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0349par0877	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0350par0878	On the other hand, friends, let me make it clear that for the past 15 years, there have been significant improvements in the rights of public employees and the financial and social rights of our pensioners. In the last 15 years, once, we've covered the price injustice between public employees; we started in 2008, when 2011 came, we've implemented the principle of equal wage in public, and again, we've produced significant increases in real income from public employees in this period. I'll give you an example: inflation from December 2002 to November 2017 269 per cent. At the same time, there are different numbers for different teacher salaries -- but the lowest rate of increase is 461%. Inflation is up 269 per cent nominal, and we have increased the teacher's salary by 461% to 523 per cent nominally. So today, when we compare 2002 to 2002, we see that all of our public employees' rights have improved even further at this time. By the way, by the way, I'd like to thank Mr. Akcay, who just spoke, and I'd like to thank them from here. At the Treasury Department, today, we have friends working, working hard day and night. A group of our friends have moved from civil servants to specialists as a result of exams in the past years. There is a righteous demand in this matter, as Mr. Akchay has commanded. As Minister, I feel that our employees are justified in this matter. In fact, in the last year, I sent the draft bill on this matter to the Prime Minister. We're still working on it. I've brought it up to the Prime Minister. Hopefully, we'll soon take a positive step towards the internal expertise exam of the Treasury employees. I thank Mr. Akçay for his sensitivity, and the MHP Group.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0351par0882	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0350par0883	These issues have been expressed by different lawmakers before, so let me put it this way. Mr. Division mentioned something about irrigation. I don't know anything about that, I'll have to ask the minister about it. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer the following questions as to the other issues -- as to the questions asked to Mr. Secretary -- perhaps I'll answer them in the following questions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0352par0886	You didn't make it to the subcontractor, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0350par0887	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0353par0888	There was Bitcoin, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0354par0889	Yes, there are other materials in front of us, of course, you can answer it, and you can answer it in writing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0891	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the question asked by Moses Pine Bey was about foreign athletes. Our boys are growing up, too. Right now, we have a thousand athletes growing up in our Olympic prep centers, and these are 13 gold, 12 silver, 21 bronze, 46 medals in the world championships so far.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0356par0893	They'll take half back.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0894	They received 51 gold, 44 silver, 79 bronze medals in the European Championships, 174 medals in total, 12 medals in the European Youth Games. So our new champions are growing up. For example, in volleyball, our children became world champions in women under 23 years of age. Our volleyball men have become European champions. At this moment, especially in the time when I was President of the Wrestling Federation, Taha Akgül, who was my own work, was the champion of five Europeans, two worlds, and one Olympic championship. Reza Kayaalp, who also -- I know from the youth national team -- has seven European championships, two World Championships, and two Olympic 3ths, so our athletes are growing up. Look, Enver Yıldırım, İbrahim Ahmet Acar is catching up in my old age. Other than that, Tutya Yilmaz, Farhat Arıcan, İbrahim Çolak, Göksu Triplets grow in gymnastics. Our young people grow up as the facilities are built. Before, there were running facilities, there were no parks, there was nothing wrong with them. As far as the facilities are concerned, we're already leading our athletes there, and they'll be much more successful. We continue to support our clubs. So new champions, new successful athletes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0356par0895	Mr. Secretary, the stats are empty, the stats are empty. Why?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0896	But let me make this clear. There are 34 facilities currently being built, 13 completed, six under construction. Look, we have the youngest facilities in the world, a 1.7-year-old average. We're also candidates for the European Football Championship, and they're visiting our facilities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0356par0897	What about the Olympic Stadium? He's lying around, the wind's blowing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0898	Thus, our young people grow up in our facilities. Mete Sozoz, for example, is the second European archery. Our other Izmir MP...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0357par0900	Osman, you say two names in 80 million.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0901	We have thousands, don't worry, we have thousands of young people, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0357par0902	Don't throw it away. Don't throw it away.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0903	Look at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0357par0904	How many amateur athletes are there in France, how many in England?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0905	Look, let me put it this way: right now, the games are being played at the İzmir Ataturk Stadium; there's an e-bile system; there's an e-bilet system, and there's an Altay playing there. We're currently building three stadiums in Izmir, but despite your obstacles, we're trying to do it, despite your obstacles.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0357par0907	You put 12 cars in a 15,000-man stadium, 12 cars, 15,000 in a stadium.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0908	We see them. Smyrna has three stadiums, but we're still facing zoning problems.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0358par0909	You're used to a fugitive.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0910	Let me tell you, don't worry, we're investing in the School Sports Federation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0911	We don't make illegals there.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0360par0912	We're against illegal structures, Mr. Secretary, so don't confuse them with AKP-based municipalities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0913	We spent $60 million this year, we're going to spend another $100 million. We're clearing the way for our young, this country's new champions, don't worry. Trust our young, we trust our young. New Europe will be the world Olympic champions, no doubt. Make no mistake, it's going out with our trainers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0914	Mr. Secretary, where have you been for 15 years?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0360par0915	You haven't grown in 15 years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0916	We're here. We'll meet at 2020. The champions are our champions. There are new champions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0917	We'll see. We'll wait another 15 years!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0918	Look, Metehan Basa was wrestling in the stars in my day, winning champions in youth, winning world champions in Paris. How old is he now? New champions are coming. Don't worry, the gold medals will come. We trust our wrestlers, our athletes. He'll come in fencing, he'll come in gymnastics, he'll come in swimming, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0919	Let him come, let him come.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0361par0920	Let him come.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0921	It's spread to the base, there's facilities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0922	Where? Which floor?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0923	There's pools everywhere.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0359par0924	We don't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0355par0925	We're waiting for you. Bring your children. This country will raise new champions, don't worry. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0362par0928	No, no, Mr. Secretary, no.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0363par0929	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0362par0930	Will he answer other questions in writing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0364par0931	No, I'll tell you, there's no time now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0365par0932	The Minister didn't answer our question either.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0366par0933	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0367par0934	Thank you. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0368par0936	Osman Bey, calm down, you're all red.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0369par0937	I'm calm.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0370par0938	This is your group president, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0371par0939	Minister Izmir has claimed that we have blocked some of the services they planned to do to him. I won't take any promises from you, but if you'll excuse us, we need to answer this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0370par0940	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0371par0943	Mr. Secretary, the government business is a serious business, and I don't mean to teach you to be serious, but in the tradition of the party you belong to, it's very common to do business, to do business by yourself. As a matter of fact, the president of your party has also admitted that he has betrayed Istanbul in terms of zoning and is still being held. Our mayors, the mayors, the mayors of İzmir, and the mayors of the city, have no luxury of betraying and having them commit treason and treason. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0370par0946	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0372par0947	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0370par0948	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0372par0950	We're building those facilities at the location of the existing stadiums. The Alsancak Stadium is in the same place as the 1940s, where the match is being played, where we do it in the same place, and in the same place, and in the same place, and in the same place. That's what we do, we don't do it anywhere else, that's it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0373par0951	Explain how they're blocking it, why they're blocking it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0374par0952	Why are they blocking it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0375par0953	Very short, if I may, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0376par0954	It's been years, Mr. Secretary, and you know it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0377par0955	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0375par0956	Mr. Secretary, is there a stadium in the world with a parking lot of 15 cars? 15 vehicles, 15 cars, a parking lot and a stadium that would fit in your plan, that would be counterintuitive to the mind, science, logic, and for which our municipalities may have created a provision that is in accordance with the regulations; and they have done very well, thank you to the municipalities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0377par0957	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0378par0958	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0377par0959	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0378par0960	Of course, Izmir is run by CHP municipalities. We know that the subway lines go on every line, there's public transportation, and then, you can walk there, there's a great transportation investment, there's infrastructure investment, so our facilities will be there.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0379par0962	No, no, no.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0380par0963	So the CHP municipalities know what they're doing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0378par0964	So don't worry. Look, there's no parking for the stadiums, there's a lot of places in the world where you go by subways, there's access, there's a citizen walking, there's a center of the city.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0379par0965	15 cars, 15 cars, doesn't fit the executives' vehicles.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0380par0966	Mr. Minister has confessed, CHP municipalities know the business, they're good at infrastructure, they're good at solving transportation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0378par0967	So let's see this. You've built such a great network of transportation to Izmir, so it's very important that we care about him, don't worry. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0380par0969	Let him set an example for you, CHP municipalities.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0381par0970	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0382par0971	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0381par0973	Mr. President, thank you. Istanbul is a city with a very large eye for civilized geography, with a historical identity. It is everyone's duty to maintain the identity of Istanbul, to care, to be thorough. We believe it is not right to consider the statement of our president in a different context, which is intended to express a co-existence beyond political competition. From time to time, our friends from different parties from these platforms express this common language about some issues. Such approaches, such assessments, if you look at them from another angle, are also open to being criticised by that cliche language of politics. In that sense, I think it would be more appropriate to see some expressions in their context, to share in the precision and care that they point out. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit03spe0383par0976	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and know...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0384par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0004	I'm on it. Here you go. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Turkish-EU Parliamentary Commission for Karma shall be submitted to the information of the General Assembly of the members of the Council of Presidents under Article 12 of the same law to form groups representing the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of the South Eastern European Union. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman ENGLISH-AVRUPA UNION [[TR-AB KPK]] THE SUNDOT DRAFT WORKING COMMUNITY PARLAMENTER ASAMBLE [[GDAU PA]] [[Aksaray]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Şanlıurfa]] It's been presented to your knowledge. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0385par0044	Mr. President, Mr. Finance Minister has given me an answer to the question I'm asking... that we're producing our own statistics. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0045	We passed that part, but now we're going to vote, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0386par0046	Mr. President, no teasing, no polemics.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0387par0047	He called out, but you didn't hear him, just now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0048	Now, I can't promise because of the bullying, the session's changed.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0388par0049	I only asked for it before the hearing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0050	I can promise you for a minute, not without teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0388par0051	I didn't say "bullshit."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0383par0052	Wait a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0388par0055	Mr. Secretary, I didn't give you any data on my question, but the data I used was the statements of TÜİK, the official institution of the state. The Gini coefficient is 0.391 in 2014, 0.397 in 2015, 0.404 in 2016, which tends to increase, and income injustice tends to increase. We're the third worst Gini coefficient in OECD countries. The same difference between 20 percent of the income and 20 percent of the minimum wealth in the distribution of wealth, according to the official data of TÜİK. Again, we are 36 per cent behind the 28 European Union countries' average in the buying power parite, according to the latest figure announced by Eurostat. The context of my question is, with all this income injustice, will you make an arrangement for the income of teachers living below the poverty line? Instead of answering this question, we're using the state's official institutions, where we're misleading statistics.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0389par0060	Thank you. We are continuing negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Charter of Computation. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2016 Central Management Terms [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] The commission is in place. The government is in place. Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the ninth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Youth and Sports shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 29) TEENAGE AND SPOR ACTIVITY 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 13.951.315.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.617,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 157,279,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 14.111.212,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2018 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Youth and Sports in 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 9.956.240,000.00 Budget Expenses 9.884.739.216.10 Cancelled Fund 71,500,783,90 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports of 2016 has been accepted into parts of the fixed account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of the 2018 Sports Department will be transferred to the chapters of the Central Management budget: those in favor... those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.14) SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Sports General Directorate 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 47,788,400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.077,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 3,472,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,232.451.100 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,284.808,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 1,220,558,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 62,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,284.808,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Sports General Directorate was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Sports General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,928,032,176,86 Budget Expenses 1,919,649,131,89 Canceled Fund 8,383,044,97 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 1.131.912,000.00 Collection 1,884.660.923.02 Rejections 62.950,11 Net Collection 1,884.597.972,91 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Board of Higher Education Loans and Homes shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.13) THE KING OF MY HIGH SCHOOL AND THE PRODUCTION OF THE YURTURES 1) The Central Management Budget for 2018 is located at the Office of the Office of the Office of the Higher Education Loans and Homes 01 General Public Service 130,024,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 395.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 109,459.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 13.658.383.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 1,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 13.899.262,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 495.202,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 12:699.262,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 194.798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collection 510,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 13.899.262,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the departments of the Central Management Account for 2016 shall be transferred to the departments of the Office for Higher Education Loans and Homes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution General Directorate 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.832.666.238.00 Budget Expenses 11.601.637.270.10 Canceled Fund 231,028,967,90 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 9.377.831.000.00 Collection 11.264.319.353.49 Ret and Returns 17.498.772.79 Net Collection 11.246.820.580.70 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office of the National Administration of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance will take part in the central management budget of 2018, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2018 01 General Public Service 127,423,731.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 214,234,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 2,649.002,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 2.847,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 73,489,971.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 203,779,785,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2018, the Ministry of Finance adopted parts of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance of Central Administration of 2016 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Account for 2016 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 153,533,298,531,00 Budget Expenses 152.238.015.362.54 Canceled Fund 1,295,283.168,46 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Finance of the Central Administration of 2016 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I'd like to submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget of 2018, the President of the IRS, those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 12.76) RETURN PRESIDENT 1) The Central Management Budget of 2018 01 General Public Service 3.215.009,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.512,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 997,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 3.221.518,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2018, the chairman of the IRS was adopted as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2016 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Finance 2016 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 2,970.252.705.00 Budget Expenses 2,875,481,703,31 Canceled allowance 94,771,001,69 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the IRS has been accepted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2018 will be transferred to the public tenders: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.06) KAMU IHHALE BUILDING 1) Public Contractorship 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 13.844,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 130.156,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 144,000.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 84,328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 59,672,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 144,000.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2016 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Public Contractorship 2016 Central Administration Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 156,820,000.00 Budget Expenses 153,776,820,24 Canceled Fund 3.043,179,76 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 132,000,000.00 Collection 157,548,923,85 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Departments of the central management account of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of the Privatisation Administration of 2018 will be transferred to the central management budget, those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.35) THE PRESIDENT OF PRISON 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2018 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 17.013,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 663.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 15.33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 32.999,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 491,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 32.508,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 32.999,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The President of the Privatisation Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2016, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Privatisation Administration Presidency 2016 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 32.959.373.00 Budget Expenses 29.331.461.82 Canceled Fund 3.627.91.18 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 30,804,000.00 Collection 30,887,254,49 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2016 has been accepted into parts of the final account of the central administration. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards shall take part in the central management budget of 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.10) PRODUCTION OF CAMU, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2018 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 620,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 42,810.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 43,430.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 8,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 33,950.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 780,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 43,430.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Accountability Accounting, Accounting and Control Standards Institution of 2016 will be transferred to the final accounts: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2016 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance: 35.970.000.00 Budget Expenses 20.947.171.84 Canceled allowance 15.022.828.16 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 35,970.000.00 Collection 23.383.598.63 Rejections 6,156,50 Net Collection 23.377.442,13 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards has been approved into parts of the central management account in 2016. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the ninth round have been approved. I wish them well. Members of parliament, with the completion of the talks on the ninth round, talks on the 2nd article on income and financing have been completed with the budgets and budgets of the ministry and relevant institutions, which include the 1st Articles of the Central Management Law of 2016. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss and vote on the provisions of the Central Management Budget Law, respectively, of 2018 years. I'll re-read the first article on the cost budget of the Central Management Act of 2018, and then submit it to your votes. TAUGHT THE LAW FOR 2018 YEARS OF CENTER Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) is a total of 751,299,665,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget. B) (II) private budgetary administrations have 88,528,812,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) editor-in-chief institutions are given 4,673,105,000 Turkish liras in grants. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the tablets that were previously approved: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm rereading Article 2 of the income budget: MADDE 2- (l) Influences: As shown in the laws of the Law (B), it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget is 684,402,835,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary governments have a total of 89,501,691.000 Turkish liras, including $10,870,759.000 Turkish dollars in income, 78,630,932,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) is a total of 4,673,105,000 Turkish liras, a total of 4,608,757,000 Turkish dollars, 64,348,000 Turkish liras, and a total of 4,673,105,000 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 16,000,000 Turkish liras. Now, I'm going to make you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: 01 Taxes 667,319,541.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Profits 20,198,613.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 2,770,621.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 50,874,832,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings $12,105,149.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 451.572,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Total Budget Profits 753,720,328,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Ret and Returns (-) 69,317,493.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Net Budget Profit 684.402.835,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0390par0409	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 3rd article on balance of the 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Although there are partial improvements in growth and employment indicators in Turkey's economy, unemployment is not being reduced, inflation is rising, Kurlar displays a risky outlook and the banking system faces lack of funding, given the high private sector debt. This building, which is raising market interest, reduces investment demand and limits investment-based growth. 15 per cent of the population is still at risk of poverty. According to TÜİK (TÜİK) Research on income and living conditions, equal households have become 21.2 per cent of the poverty rate determined by considering 60 per cent of the available income from the fert media. The inequality of income has increased by the previous year. When those who are able to work are included when they are not looking for work today, the actual number of unemployed has reached 5,472,000 people and the unemployment rate has reached 16.5 per cent. The unemployment rate among young people is 20 per cent and the percentage of people who are not employed is 26.1 per cent.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0391par0413	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... One moment, Mr. Aksu... I'll add to your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please... please, the bureaucrats, the experts, please... we'll continue our negotiations, please... Here you go, Mr. Aksu. One minute to add to your time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0392par0418	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you. Inflation rising to 13 percent makes the lives of our narrow-income citizens more difficult and more desperate than the future of the economy. As a matter of fact, according to the latest data from TÜİKbook, the consumer Trust Index has decreased by 3.2 per cent compared to the previous month. Within the same index, the expectation that the overall economic situation will be better in the next 12 months has decreased by 3.7 per cent, and the expectation that the household's financial situation will improve by 2.8 per cent. The withdrawal of large sums of money from the market to cover budget deficits limits the resources the private sector will use for investment and production in the domestic market because of funds lent to the public, which increases interest and debt costs. All of this shows that business in the economy does not go at the desired level, that the quality of growth and employment is not good, that life is expensive, that the tradesman, the farmer, is in debt to the pensioner. Dear lawmakers, in the public sector, accounts are made through the budget. The balance of income and expense is important to ensure that public services do not show any difficulties in their presentation. Expenses in expenses reveal the need for debt as a result of the revenues failing to cover expenses, and the increasing budget deficit leads to more debt by the public. Budget spending consists of interest-free spending and interest expenditures, as well as principal pens. The budget balance represents the equality of the state's costs and revenues, while the non-interest balance represents the balance of income and spending, except the interest that should be paid from the budget. In an economy, budget revenues will mean that if they can't afford the basic costs of the budget -- non-interest costs -- they don't have enough income to cover the costs of the public, even if they don't have to pay interest. In 2017, the budget will cut $61.7 billion in total, while the non-interest balance will cut $4.2 billion. In 2002, our extra interest-free budget also opened in 2017, meaning that the economy of Turkey, along with its banking system, has been removed from financial discipline, considered its most important anchor. Abstinence from fiscal discipline means increasing the need for debt due to the budget deficit and increasing interest rates, as well as reducing the quality of spending in the budget, lowering growth rates with poor spending over a long period of time and slowing down the economy. In an economy that saves capital instead of debt, creating employment instead of inflation, growth has to have an engine, not consumption, but investments. But one of the weakest aspects of the 2018 budget is investment spending. The capital costs, estimated at 68.8 billion dollars for 2018, are just over $2.6 billion in the 2017 budget, which is $66.2 billion, and below 70.5 billion in the estimated year of 2017. In 2018, the GDP rate will be reduced from 2.3 per cent in 2017 to 2 per cent, which means that investments which are already inadequate will be reduced and will be given up on middle-term growth goals. Furthermore, Turkey's share of direct international investments is still below 1.69 per cent, at 0.69 per cent. But in the developing countries that are our precedent, the rate is higher. For example, Brazil is 3.7 in Brazil; India is 2.5 in India; Mexico is 1.7 in Mexico. This data points to the necessity of taking permanent structural measures to encourage investments, rather than the palliative solutions brought with the bag of laws. Precious lawmakers show that the amount of 2018 budget revenues of $599.4 billion will be covered by taxes, which amount to 86 per cent of the total budget income. About 53.5 per cent of tax revenues will be collected only from the EV and VAT. With such a high share of indirect taxes in tax revenues, instead of expanding the tax base and reducing the informality, it means that the tax burden on citizens is easy to increase. This will undoubtedly deepen the injustice of taxation. The data points out that budget deficits will be tried to be closed by tax increases rather than by saving. However, the negative effects of these tax increases will surely be seen in the coming period. These increases will raise inflation as well as put negative pressure on investment and production. In addition to the impact of taxes on inflation and the budget, the potential deflective effects on the functioning of the economy must be taken into account. If you look at the general state revenues and expenditures of 2017, it will increase by 2.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent of the debt envisioned by 1.4 per cent of the GDP. The main reason for this additional deficit is that budget revenues are below the target. Less revenue collection than the intended means that a significant portion of the tax is lost through unregisteredness. Trying to close budget deficits by raising tax rates during a high-period period raises doubts about meeting the target. The performance in tax revenues has also been reflected in tax-free income. In the 2017 programme, the GDP of tax-free revenues will be programmed at 1.8%, while 1.6% in the general state balance. In privatisation revenues, a 0.6 per cent expected in 2017 compared to GDP has reached only one-third. Turkey must immediately take steps towards social sectors such as law, public administration, education and social security, along with macroeconomic measures to overcome these problems. In all of these assessments, although the 2018 budget is expected to pay $65.9 billion off, $5.8 billion off interest...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0393par0430	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0392par0431	These accounts seem difficult to keep, given the current performance and economic progress. Because there are some temporary non-tax incomes, such as privatisation revenues, but what is essential is the quality of permanent income. Once revenues give us a temporary look of healing, the difference is either increasing taxes or borrowing, which will still be on the shoulders of our narrow and fixed-income citizens. In 2018, however, more resources can be earmarked for both lower interest rates and investments in the private sector, rather than a tax increase in 2018. With these thoughts, I wish the budget to be good, to contribute to the construction of our nation's peaceful and secure future, and salute you worthy members of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0393par0434	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Mehmet All will speak. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0438	Mr. President, I have made a commitment in the 2018 budget to the balance, and I salute you all. Thirty-nine years from now, Marast, one of the most brutal massacres in our history. 120 of our citizens were brutally murdered, 400 of our citizens injured. In this massacre, children, pregnant women, 90-year-olds were brutally murdered. Once again, I honor the lives we've lost in this massacre. Thirty-nine years later, this massacre was never faced in any way. The sufferings of the Aleki have not stopped since. Today, the ban of the memorial activity of the governorship of Maraş deepened those sufferings. We never accept that ban. I strongly condemn the understanding that doesn't allow it. Dear lawmakers, we've been discussing the budget bill for two weeks at the General Assembly. 80 million of our citizens are wondering what this budget means to them, with workers, tradesmen and pensioners. Here, the budget is increasing. Or the economy is growing. Your words do not sound convincing to our people. You say the economy grew 11 percent, but did the public's economy grow? No. Did economic growth solve the pensioner's livelihood? No. Do workers, workers, shopkeepers, peasants look to the future with confidence? No. This budget is not the budget of 80 million citizens, it's the budget of your ally, it's the debtor, it's the lender, it's the loan shark. We know that very well. Dear lawmakers, since this is about balance, we have to talk about the balance in the real citizen's pocket. Our people are getting poorer and poorer. According to TÜRK-İSK, the hunger limit in November increased to $1,567 and the poverty limit to $5,105. In our country, 7 million live below the minimum wage hunger limit. People can't even meet their basic needs. People pay off another bank's debt with a bank's card. In the April 16th referendum, if the economy comes out, the economy will rise. You said. Inflation rates now exceed 17 per cent. Unemployment keeps rising. The bag was raised by law from food to energy to all consumption pens. The income tax has been raised, the rents have increased. Communication taxes have doubled. You say the increase in dollars doesn't affect the citizen, but when the dollar went up, gas, transportation, gas prices went up, everything imported from the outside went up. Our economy is thrilled, you say. But the people's economy is bleeding. No one in the country has job security. Now you're trying to convince subcontractors of their choice by promising them a cast. No one believes your lies anymore. Dear lawmakers, the most important part of the budget's income is taxes. You said national security, you raised taxes; there are defense expenses. You said, you increased taxes; you said, national issue, you raised taxes. With these taxes, you have continued to increase the palace's covered allowance. I'm asking you from here: how many times have you made additional grants to the presidency and the Prime Minister? How many times have you increased the palace's covered funding this year because the palace couldn't afford it? Why are you being so generous to the palace and so stingy with millions of people living below the age of hunger?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0395par0444	It's not like that at all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0445	On the one hand, you transfer taxes from the poor to the covered funds, to the secret service costs, and on the other hand, with the VAT, the VAT, the MTV, the VAT of the STV, the VAT of our people. Dear MPs, in this budget bill, there is no justice, no equality, no conscience, no balance; this picture we are in is a picture of shame. This budget is not a balance for a citizen, it is a budget that destabilises the citizens. Retireds can't go to the hospital, more than 14 pens are being cut off. The farmer can't produce because of the price of diesel and fertilizer, everything is imported from the outside. The local manufacturer is crushed and destroyed under dozens of taxes, but as AKP power, you know your business very well, and I congratulate you in that sense. You're smuggling millions of dollars in taxes into tax paradise, and you're talking about being shamelessly domestic and national. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the taxes of the 80 million-dollar country go to sidebars, rantshops, interest dealers, one man's expenses and luxury vehicles. When we ask for an account, the AKP's president tells us that the main betrayal party does not see any of what I've done to the country. We see and know what you've done to the country. The real betrayal is to reduce 80 million to poverty and tax Man Island; the real betrayal is to take bribes from an Iranian impostor and make our country's reputation worth nothing; the real betrayal is to lead the country to Parsel Parcel terror, to Rantshop, to the side... (Applause from the ranks of CHP)...to surrender our forests, our streams, our natures to those who blaspheme; to betray, to trouble this country...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0396par0449	It's self-possessed, master.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0450	...to hand over all the institutions of the state, the army, the judiciary to the government; the real betrayal is to give up whatever it wants. Our people know very well who's being betrayed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll give you one more example of betrayal, be patient. The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs made a statement the other day that the national lottery was prohibited. Religious Affairs has a budget of more than 12 ministries, but the only thing they get so much out of the budget is the royal fetishism.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0396par0452	It's a shame.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0453	The diet's budget is increasing exponentially every year, but not enough - another $1 billion in 2018. Now I'm asking you, in the country...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0396par0454	These are our institutions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0397par0455	You're making a rhetorical speech.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0456	Listen, listen, I'm asking you now, answer this first.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0397par0457	You're disrupting the House. Your Honor, you're making things tense.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0458	As if there were no more troubles left in the country, you come out shamelessly and call the national lottery a ban on the lottery. With so poor and unemployed in our country, why don't you say it's illegal for power to smuggle millions of dollars in taxes? As a tax collector of 80 million, why can't you say that bribes, thefts, corruption is illegal once? Why didn't you say, "It's a shame, it's a sin," when our daughters were burned in dorms while children were being raped?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0398par0459	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0460	You didn't say a word when women's murders were called jobs. Why didn't you say a word when you were fooling people with religious lies? (HPP cheers) Now, you're saying the national lottery is forbidden. Do you think it's lawful for the tax on the TRT (TRT), which is taxed only by one man, who is taxed at 80 million? Do you think taxes from the millions of Alevi to the Dianet are lawful in the national lottery? Do you think it's lawful for you to transfer taxes from the Alekis to the service of just one sect?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0399par0461	You divide people into sects? What kind of understanding is that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0462	Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you, the Avenis don't approve of the taxes they pay. You still don't see these people as equal citizens, you have to see them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0399par0463	It's a sick understanding.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0400par0464	Not even CHP believes what they say, not even their own group believes what they say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0465	Dear lawmakers, you've finished agriculture, livestock, trade -- patience -- millions of people are unemployed, unable to find jobs in the country. As of December, the real unemployment is over 5 million. Friends are out of work, and two out of five young people are out of work. And most of them are our boys with diplomas. Sadly, we live in a country where graduates commit suicide from unemployment, economic distress, where unlicensed men run the country and miss millions in tax gardens.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0466	You'll sit in the residences, won't you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0467	Our unemployed young people who are not in this budget will never forget what you've done. You will surely pay the bill for this economic crisis that you have put our people through in the coming elections. Dear lawmakers, as a country's economic crisis deepens, so does the political crisis. You're running our people through fear and oppression policies on the basis of the State of Emergency. Despite this, people stand fearlessly in every aspect of life and will continue to resist the court regime.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0470	You can only resist.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0471	Dear friends, Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça have been on hunger strike for two hundred and eighty days and want to go back to work. You fired these two people first, they didn't; then you put them in jail, and it didn't happen again; now you're warning these people with the State of Emergency Commission, leaving them to die. Don't you have any conscience or sense of justice? Remember, whoever's right will win sooner or later. With fear, oppression, digestion, our economy is raging. With lies, you can never fool anyone, and you can never stay in power.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0472	We're building a local car, a local car.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0473	This budget does not include justice, equality, economic prosperity.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0474	You've been losing elections for 15 years, and you're out talking again. Tell me about the destruction you suffered in the chest.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0475	We, the Republican People's Party, call this palace budget all the way to the end. We don't want a runt, we want a budget for the public.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0476	How many elections did you lose, Mr. Mehmet? You've ruined the country. You've lost the election after the election.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0477	I'd like to finish my speech with a stanza of Adnan Yücel: where dreams run to infinity, where patience blooms -- the book that never closes -- because those who resist the most beautiful place in history say the last word. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do you understand?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0401par0480	Let's fight it out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0481	You got that, fellas?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0402par0482	We're making everybody's budget, people.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0483	Do you understand?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0403par0484	You're losing your resistance.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0394par0485	Did he touch it? What happened to you? Did it hurt you? It's gonna hurt a little, honey, and it's gonna hurt a little while all these people are miserable, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0404par0486	Mr. All, you've finished your speech, please take your seat. Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0405par0487	Even the CHP didn't believe what they said, it was too short a shot.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0404par0488	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0406par0489	Mr. President, he used a very separative language, Your Honor. He claimed again as if we'd answered a lot of unproven claims over and over again, as if we hadn't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0407par0490	What kind of a taunt is that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0406par0491	We condemn the language that fuels this discrimination, condemns institutions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0493	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0494	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0495	There's no fucking around.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0496	I'll answer right away. Of course, he blames me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0497	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0498	There's... there's bullying here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0499	So don't blame him or don't do that either? Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0500	What better way to pick on me than that? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0410par0501	Are we going to participate in this inquisitive language, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0502	Here you are, Mr. Sword, Deputy Heromarash.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0503	I have to take my word for it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0408par0504	Mr. All, please take your seat.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0409par0505	I'm passing, but I want a say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0411par0506	He spoke rudely and hurtfully.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0412par0509	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Kahramanmarash, the city of peace and brotherhood, both in the past and in the present. Together, we live in a brotherhood of Alevis, Sunnis, Kurds, Turks, Arabs, Chechens, Chechens. Kahramanmarash is a game set up by external and domestic provocateurs and led our country to a conscious and visible coup. As a result, when the games matured, as the Kenan universe called them, the coup took place. Of these events, Alevi, Sunni, all our countrymen, we've all suffered great harm. This anniversary meeting has not been allowed since 2011 so that those who want to stage new games as an excuse for the anniversary of events will not be allowed to give them an opportunity. As a matter of fact, a joint statement issued by 84 NGOs in our province has also shown concern that these meetings may lead to new provocations.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0413par0511	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0414par0512	Sir, what he said about the Kenan Universe...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0415par0513	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0416par0514	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0417par0515	I'll give you my word, you'll talk about it, and I'll listen to you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0416par0516	Mr. President, there's a situation about this: our minister made a speech, and the deputy Justice and Development Party's deputy, the unproven allegations, started and then blamed himself. Now, I don't mind your appreciation for not having the right to answer on the stand, but in front of the vote, in the eyes of the citizen, after the testimony of Mr. Bulent Turan, you have to give Mr. All of you an explanation. For him, he demands a brief word from his place according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0418par0517	Then you'll have to give it to us. Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0417par0518	Now, look...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0416par0519	Because there's an accusation. He said things that couldn't be proved. He says, "He insulted the courts." He says, "I don't know what he did." Normally...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0419par0520	It's the other side who made the charge. He's the one who made the charge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0417par0521	No, he used a separatist language. He said, and he condemned it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0420par0522	Let's move on to the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0421par0523	Why don't you take a look at his record, Mr. President? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0417par0524	There's no way I'm going to make a promise because of the resentment. Blasphemy isn't teasing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0422par0525	You haven't made a promise of bullying, and I'm not saying that you appreciate it, but at least you have to respect a right to explain.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0417par0526	Well, wait a minute, you're not...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0423par0527	Let him explain to you for an apology.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0422par0528	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0423par0529	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0424par0530	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0425par0532	Dear friends, of course, the truth is bitter. I understand that my speech has disturbed friends, but my intention is not to disturb anyone, but to speak the truth of this country. We have 15-20 million Alevi citizens in this country. The faith of the Alevi is the house of the people. The Alekis are not considered citizens by this power. For this reason, throughout history, these Alevis were targeted and slaughtered in Sivas, and in Maraş. We say: In this Alevis Çorum, if you see these Alevis as citizens, there will be peace in this society. However, today, Malatya is still marked in various parts of Turkey's homes. The Alevis want to live together in peace in this country. I'm asking today, aren't the Alekis currently in the military, taxing? So, Alevis, our place of faith is the house. He said, "Why don't you accept it? Why do you ignore it?" Well, do the Alevis allow you these taxes? Of course they don't approve of you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They forbid you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0426par0538	Now, Mr. All, you're right, so you're right...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0425par0539	They're always objecting, first they'll object to what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0426par0540	You're right to take words, not what you say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0425par0541	Get him up, tell him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0426par0542	You're not supposed to use this separator language.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0425par0543	The separatist, see, is power itself. The President has made a statement that the Alevi are not citizens... Look, look, there's not one Alevi governor in power, there's no minister, there's no Undersecretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0426par0545	Look, I listened to you, I listened quietly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0425par0546	You're the one who pulled it apart! For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0426par0547	Now sit down and listen to me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0427par0548	What are you doing here if you're not a citizen? Then what are you doing here? You're a citizen, you're here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0428par0549	Did you bring him? The people have chosen, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0427par0550	Well, okay, the public picked it out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0428par0551	He came with the primary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0427par0552	So we have equal rights.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0429par0553	In this country -- we always say -- we all want to live as brothers, regardless of ethnicity, religious belief, but you don't see the Alevis as citizens.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0427par0554	That's a pretty heavy statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0430par0555	Unacceptable, President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0429par0556	This is not supposed to be pronounced anywhere, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0431par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0432par0558	If you see it, admire the place of faith.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0429par0559	Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0431par0560	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0429par0561	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0562	Look, don't the Alekis have a share in the budget for the Ministry of Religious Affairs?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0431par0563	I'm so sorry, I'm so surprised...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0564	Don't the Alekis have a share in this budget?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0565	I mean, I expect you to take that back, really.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0566	Why should I?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0435par0567	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0568	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0569	Alevis have been struggling to become equal citizens for years. Why would I take it back?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0435par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0571	Mr. All, look, show some respect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0572	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0573	You spoke as I spoke...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0433par0574	No, is that a lie?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0575	Mr. Turan, you're talking. Excuse me, please, respect the right of the others.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0436par0576	Mr. President, by reminding you of the Civil Code 64, if there's anything to be said about this, let's leave it to the group vice president.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0577	I know what the 64th Article of the Civil Code is, the 94th Article of the Constitution. This is a delicate matter.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0436par0578	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0579	I'm not answering your speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0436par0580	Let's not renegotiate an old argument, he's in a position to respond, Deputy Justice and Development Party Chairman.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0581	But I don't think it's my duty to warn you that there's a distinction between citizens as acting Speaker of the Parliament of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, and that's my duty to warn you, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0436par0582	Mr. President, if we have to stress this, the AKP Group Deputy President will do it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0437par0583	Don't you live in this country together? Don't you have any neighbors? You don't live here, do you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0434par0584	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0585	Mr. President, first of all, we've heard the arguments of the speakers, disappointed and surprised.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0439par0586	What are you surprised about?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0440par0587	Yeah, what's to be surprised about?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0588	For fifteen years, we have been in this country, in clothing, in generation, in sects, in religion, in that land, in this land, wherever it may be.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0440par0589	Yeah, can you tell me if there's a janitor in Diyanette, a concierge in the Ministry of Religious Affairs?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0441par0590	Why are you defending 15 years, defending the history of the republic?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0591	...everybody knows how much we pay for the brotherhood of 80 million, how much we take at risk. So I want to say that 80 million is brothers, not just Alevis, but whatever group of beliefs we're from, and we're equal. And I'm amazed by the way this is being expressed. I think it's a way that no one can walk or party or benefit their country.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0442par0592	In Norway?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0593	We're supposed to be the nation that consolidates the brotherhood.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0443par0594	If you're a brother, you'll provide equal citizenship, equal citizenship.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0595	We need to use a language that emphasizes our differences, that we are one and that we are together in this nation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0443par0596	You will know your brother, your faith, your religion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0438par0597	Without listening to me right now, I'd just like to say that the screaming language is a dictatorial language, which prevents this march.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0443par0599	Why don't you accept your brother's camisole as a sanctuary? Your other brother knows you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0444par0600	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0445par0601	Mr. President, let me finally say on behalf of our group: Now, that's not what the ruling party says. It's important to say that, but I'm a good person. You can't be a good person. But it's not enough to be a good person, even though you're a good person, you have to be fair. But being fair isn't enough to say you're fair, it's got to be someone who believes in your justice and trusts you. A part of society, someone who represents that section, comes out and we're discriminated against, we're not respected for our faith. Although taxes from us and taxes from someone are collected in a pool, only one group of believers is being served. If he says, and we are being discriminated against, we are not discriminated against. You should know that it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that you don't feel that way. You've been told that in your face. It's one thing to learn from it as a rule. No, we're not, we're not, we're not. That's perception. If that's the way an important part of the community feels about it, then instead of doing so here, we need to evaluate it and make it right. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0446par0604	I'm not taking any kind of advice, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0447par0605	Thank you. Mr. Special, I'll tell you this: there's a difference between language and language used in expression. You've made it very clear, but certain expressions feel the need to make certain explanations, whether you want to or not. And I thank you for that explanation. Yes, Mr. Ali Atalan, Mardin MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Atalan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0448par0614	Mr. President, I salute all the elected members of the prison, especially our Co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, who are being held in captivity. Dear friends, with your permission, I'd like to first point to a general principle, a basis. You know, in democratic regimes, governance takes its legitimacy from law, from people and the universal system of values that are generally accepted. Let's not forget -- especially in the case of AKP MPs -- one of the main factors that led to the collapse and collapse of a great empire such as the Roman Empire -- has been the total collapse of the value system, so it has not been defeated, disbanded by any war on the outside; its moral, moral, and systemic collapse of the governing device completely inside has led to its end. Human history is full of countless examples like this. I must say, I got the impression that two days ago, Minister of the European Union, Mr. Omar Çelik, was very tired and desperate here. Because clearly and publicly, it seemed like the sovereign government, who had a breakdown in the values system, was defending his understanding of government, but couldn't defend it. Because he sees the situation better than any of us, but he forbids it from saying it. I'd like to remind you one more time. Europe, which we claim to be connected to, has a value system. It is a structure of norms, such as rule of law, democracy, justice, freedom, equality, solidarity, pluralism, tolerance, etc. Can you tell me which one of these is fully operational in the current situation? We don't think any of it. Mr. Steel is trying to defend the foreign policy of his government by forcing his own philosophical, semantic ability, and he talks about the need for opening chapters. Look, there's a fundamental deviation in your direction and your axis. You're out of the way. I'm afraid there's been an irreconcilable conflict between what you've done and what needs to be done. We need to know that and get it out when we know it. This collapse of the AKP's values system has taken place in every aspect of life. Believe me, 90 percent of AKP people don't believe in this policy called the case, they don't understand it, they don't explain it. Look, let me give you a couple of examples of countless examples and two or three smaller ones from the local that I think are unspoken here. Partly from the past, one of the major specific problems facing the local population today is the land problem. You know what kind of victims are caused by the wrong, incomplete, sloppy cadastro work. For example, we have many citizens who have been put in a difficult position to buy their own land again. These people are being forced to enter an auction-style tender. It's not just about that. A land mafia has emerged from this situation. The land mafia asks for money and people are forced to pay on the condition that they withdraw from the tender from the rightful owners who want to retake the land. Another example, dear friends, is the activities of Genghis Holdings, the owner of the mining project in Artvin. It is a conglomerate that has been court-martialed many times and has been protested by various NGOs for its natural balance-breaker projects so far. The Eti Bakır Anonim Corporation, taken over by Genghis Holdings, wants to evacuate Karataş village, which has a 400-year history in the District of Mazıdağı, Mardin. The Bakı Bakır Anonim Company has interviewed the village people, offered 4,000 Turkish liras for one acre of property, and sold to the reactioning villagers if it comes to your work, and if it doesn't work for you, it's the state, we've rented it from the state. So, how come they're trying to get the villagers out of their homeland with some money? Based on what, who do they rely on that they can be so uncompromising? Again, dear friends, let me give you another example: Kelhoki is related to Efshê, the village of Kaleli, a village known as Ezidi, just as I tried to explain here a month ago. I made the point of the matter a month ago in the House, as I said a month ago. The minister is meeting with Mardin Governor on this matter, as if nothing had happened, the trustee who was appointed to Mardin City is leaving, again making a decision to destroy and punish several of the so-called councilmen whom he has appointed, as if they had tried to do so on their own. The people of Europe are first declared a village site so that they do not return to their villages, and then this decree of destruction and punishment is issued. However, before the condolence was made, the condolence house had been established with the governor and other concerned institutions, with their approval. But the illegitimate forces come in, they decide to destroy it. What kind of law is that, what kind of conscience is that, what kind of morality is that? I personally don't understand, so if anyone can make sense of it, go ahead and tell them. These mafia-like and dirty relationships must be revealed to us immediately, and the necessary intervention must be carried out immediately. I'd like to give you another example. As you probably know, our last friend Feleknas has also expressed that last Friday's Eid of Ezda, one of our most important festivals of the Ezidis, was celebrated. On this occasion, I wanted to visit the Ezids who were at Midyat AFAD camp, and unfortunately, despite all my efforts, I couldn't go to camp, I couldn't celebrate people's holidays, I wasn't allowed to have a holiday with them. Those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism) and disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism and in His Messenger Muhammad SAW) and say: "Glory to Allah! I mean, how is it that I'm really having trouble understanding how we're looking for a subsidiary in an AFAD camp where the Ezids live, we're looking for the AFAD presidency, we're looking for the governorship; I can't go camping in front of the camp, I can't celebrate people's holiday as a congressman, and I'm also an Ezidi MP. Dear President, while you and the government are here, it would really require the Parliament to take its stand and be active to address such problems. I salute you all here with this expectation and hope, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit04spe0449par0625	Thank you, Mr. Atalan. Congressmans, I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0449par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0450par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute your high council. The budget of the year 2018 has again divided the largest share into national education, health care, national defence and national security. High-tech production of high-end products is one of our main goals. In 2017, the Credit Guarantee Fund bailed out 250 billion Turkish lira support for our industry and trade was life-threatening, mobilised, increased employment, and discovered growth in exports. Growth in the third quarter is the greatest sign of that. In 2018, we will continue our support for a development move above our growth projections. In line with the targets of the 2023, we will make efforts to bring our country into the top ten countries in the world, the leader in the region. In a domestic and national economic campaign, we will work with the heart of Turkey to build the great Turkey of the future. In addition to global developments, our economy grew by 3.2 per cent in 2016, despite the July 15 traitorous attempt to invade our country. In the first quarter of 2017, our economy, which grew at 5.2 per cent, grew 5.1 per cent in the second quarter, and was the largest developing country in the world, leaving China and Brazil behind with 11.1 per cent growth in the third quarter. We took steps as an AK PARTY to overcome economic difficulties following the July 15 coup attempt. In particular, we took various tax and social security measures to stimulate the economy, temporarily reduced VAT and STV rates in some goods, downloaded land fees, took a lot of social security measures, delayed the collection of some public revenues, including altitude costs in tourism and ecimiscils. So budget revenues were also a little negatively affected. Despite this, the EC PARTY government has never stepped on the brakes in public investments in the name of reviving and growth, and has even continued at all speeds in roads, tunnels, airports, national defences, environmental and urbanism, health and tourism. We had increased trade volume with Turkish lira. In 2002, we did 0.6 per cent of our foreign trade at a rate of 8.9 per cent during the nine months of this year. In addition to their products, our country exports health care, computer games, televisions, film films, contractors and technical counseling services, software products and culture. For example, Turkey is second in line in the world in terms of the production of the series, followed by the United States, and Turkish soap operas are now watched by 400 million people in 75 countries, which is very important for our country's promotion. Mr. President, valued MPs, as our Prime Minister and Finance Minister say, this budget is a budget that supports investment, production, employment, exports in every way, especially private sector investments. Mr. President, the world is bigger than five. As a vision and a mission, as a state of the Republic of Turkey, our economic potential, our local and national resources, our human resources have sent the message that we are in this changing and developing world. Yeah, we're in. Turkey is not just a closed country; it is open to the outside world; it has reached out to the oppressed geography; it is the second country to split the largest share of its national budget in the world. Just last week, the decision of the Islamic Co-operation Organization gathered in Istanbul on the Palestinian and Jerusalem issue declared East Jerusalem the capital of Palestine; and good luck. Indeed, Our first qiblah (prayer direction) of al-Masjid al-Aqsa is Our red line, and indeed, it is Ourselves that will never be abandoned. The Day of Judgement will be the Day of Judgement. Let's be united, let's be large, let's be alive, let's work with all our strength to seal the Turkish civilization of the 21st century, in the hope that our sense of friendship, brotherhood, and uhuveaut would bring peace to Turkey's geography and the world. He wants to achieve his 2023 goals by saying, "Don't stop, keep going." He wants to build a future Turkey. He wants the 2018 budget to be a blessing, and I want to give you all respect and love.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0451par0015	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of him, Mr. Huseyin Yıldız will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0452par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you with love and respect. The 2017 budget envisioned debt of 47 billion, but then increased by 30 billion to 84 billion liras. The 2018 budget envisioned another 67 billion debts. I mean, what does that mean in 2018? They're probably gonna settle this with a $100 billion loan. Dear friends, we'll sort out the imbalance in the budget somehow, but you've left no balance in our country. I'll tell you a few things: the balance of income justice has been disturbed, the balance of economics has been disturbed, the balance of justice has been disturbed, the balance of politics has been disturbed, the balance of our international unity has been disturbed, the balance of our social psychology has been disturbed, the balance of our society has been disturbed, the balance of our staff has been disturbed, the balance of women and men's equality has been disturbed. Indeed, this budget is the public's budget. If you say so, Mr. Minister, it is certainly not the public budget, but the wealthy's budget, the palaces' budget. Can a president have 13 private planes, friends, when there are 10 million people living on minimum wage in one country? When there are citizens living for 1,400 lira in one country, 7 million people are out of work, around 10 million people live on the edge of openness, I ask you, dear friends, would you live in a 1,300-bedroom palace? If you really want the public's budget, Mr. Minister -- I'm a man who knows very well that you're uncomfortable with it, and you're a man from bureaucracy -- if you really want to be in the public budget, come today -- let's make a proposal as the People's Party -- let's make the minimum price $2,000; let's make it $2,000; let's make it $2,000, let's make it $2,000. Let's give the worker, the officer, the pensioner a 30% raise. Let's give the pensioners a bonus on religious holidays. Let's go back, let's give the farmer the gas for $2, not $5. Let's turn this country into a country that produces, not a country that consumes. Otherwise... 17,000 shopkeepers have closed the shop, dear friends. If I had said, "We're going to import saman in 2002." I swear to God, everyone would have said, "This guy's crazy." Today we import hay from Bulgaria, import meat from Serbia, friends. So, let's all try to make a public budget by putting the truth of this country in front of us, dear friends. Now, you've arrived in 2002, 2002, and since then, my own district has had 3 percent unemployment in Aydın. Today, the unemployment rate in Aydın is 20 per cent, 20 per cent friends. In the past, when farmers sold their cotton and grain, they changed their homes, changed their tractors, married their children. In the old days, oil flows from the mountains of Light, honey flows from the plains of Light. We said, "I was in the city of Aydın last week, the whole local newspaper headlined... and there are executive officers running through our mountains and plains, my friends, the bailiff." From Söke, to Nazilli, 80 percent of our entire area is mortgaged to a bank owned by Greeks, mortgaged to a bank. Our farmer, our tradesman, doesn't do anything, doesn't get the product he's planting. If you sell the diesel for $5, if you get up and raise the fertilizer 500 percent, if it still stays at 2002 prices, we should all sit down and think about it, dear friends. We've been waiting for 15 years in Aydin. The Enlighten-Marine highway was not built; you promised the railway between China and Aydın; it wasn't done; you promised a public hospital; it wasn't done; in short, it hasn't been struck by a nail for 15 years, dear friends. Dear friends, really, Turkey is getting worse, who is providing us, all of us, you, us, 80 million, people, all of us, property and lives? The Home Office provides it. If a Home Secretary comes out and threatens the president of a main opposition party with all the resources of the state, no citizen has a chance to trust that Home Secretary, my dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0453par0028	No threats, no threats.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0452par0029	On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0454par0031	Thank you, Mr. Star. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for ten minutes. In five minutes of this time, I will receive the questions of the MPs, and in the other five minutes, the Minister will answer them. Mr. Rootsal, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0455par0035	Mr. President, the Finance Minister says we've put sugar factories in privatisation. As we look at it, it's said that sugar factories need qualified staff, but on the other hand, temporary workers who can provide the best for this need are not deliberately given staff, they're being applied to beet quotas, and they're being asked to destroy the sugar factories. Is the goal here more likely to lead to factories that produce starch-based sugars that the big American companies will replace with sugar factories? Again, you called the Tabherona staff, but you're not making a proper statement about it. Now thousands of workers wonder who will take the cast. For example, will the security guards at the OSCE be able to receive a staff of cleaning staff? We're waiting for your explanations on this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0454par0037	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0456par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Naci Agbal. Mr. Secretary, my first question has been a long time since its establishment, but there has never been a sound from the Entity Fund, which has been declared to be of great benefit to our country during the talks of the law. Has there ever been an application for a loan from abroad, a loan from abroad, or a loan from abroad? And the second question is, what organizations have been handed over to the fund? Another question: Do you intend to sell small-scale, for example, 500 square meters of rent or for those who rent up to 1,000, 2,000 square metres of land or pay the price? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0457par0043	Thank you, too. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0458par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I've said this dozens of times before, and once again, especially about the sale of houses built on treasure lands in Hatay, unfortunately, there is a sherrah in Hatay. I've explained this to you before. I would like to rephrase the matter of giving to our citizens who have paid for the homes built on treasured land in Hatay. Now I expect you to be sensitive about it. In this regard, I demand that the houses established on Samandag, Defne, Antioch, and especially Lake Amik be given to the landowners. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0459par0048	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0460par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked at the last session. Will you have a study of the salaries of our esteemed teachers, who are trying to provide education and teaching under difficult circumstances and who, unfortunately, are getting less respected every day, at 2018? It's about the appointments again, Mr. Secretary. In the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Minister of National Education showed that there would be 20,000 appointments in 2018, but as an address for more, your Ministry and the Government. How do you feel about assignments in 2018? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0461par0054	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0462par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I just asked you the same questions again because I didn't get any answers. There are plenty of staff spaces in the butler's property managers -- both in the center and in the districts. I asked you about lack of staff around here. Are you going to shoot? That was my first question. My second question: Unfortunately, in recent configurations, some firms and individuals are unable to pay due to the economy's difficulties, and their configurations are broken. Is such a reconstruction involved or is it being designed recently? My third question: does the Turkish Republic of Turkey, your Ministry, have a plan, a policy about digital money? I'm asking you again about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0463par0060	Mr. Division... no. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0464par0062	I'm asking the Finance Ministry, we're calling the recruitment of subcontractors the Republican People's Party, and we're keeping them on the agenda. We're hearing that while we're waiting for this matter to be discussed in parliament and given the law and the staff to be recruited, the subcontractors will be dealt with under the law. The issue of hiring subcontractors is mandatory by law. It is the representatives of the nation who will make this law. Other than that, an arrangement that will be carried out by one person, without discussion of the issue, without the budget fitness of the issue, with the use of the state of law and the state of emergency, is done in a matter that does not have a motive for the State of Emergency, which would be against our Constitution. It's a risk of being canceled in the future. We want the matter brought to the House as soon as possible, and we want it to be legalized. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0463par0064	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0465par0066	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Koksal has made some assessments of the privatisation of sugar factories. The sugar market is really important because it involves a sugar beets producer, employees and consumers, and it also has a strategic product in it. In this respect, we're going to run this program by combining all of these important factors into this privatisation application. In recent years, we have also had a number of studies, particularly in sugar factories, which have given us revenue enhancement or savings to increase efficiency. I'm hoping that we'll do the necessary consultations in this privatisation program as well. There are temps, candy factories, regular workers, subcontractors.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0466par0068	The temps are waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0465par0069	We're in a very close dialogue with our employees, and I personally, as Secretary of State, take their requests by visiting factories. Friends who work hard, with great zeal, with self - sacrifice, with hard work, I congratulate them from the bottom of my heart. I've personally seen what the production conditions in the sugar mills are in the factories, and they have an effort to be truly appreciated. We're already making a improvement in this subcontractor arrangement, including those friends. We'll have arranged for four months to extend their working hours in terms of temporary workers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0466par0070	Ten months, Mr. Secretary. They want a regular staff.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0465par0071	We know, and we're interviewing them with our union, and hopefully, in a very constructive sense of dialogue, we'll sort these things out. Mr. Tor, about the Turkish Entity Fund... You know, the Turkish Entity Fund belongs to the Prime Ministerate, 100 per cent of its capital belongs to the Privatisation Administration, and investment activities are subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. From this point of view, I would say in general that friends of the Turkish Entity Fund are doing the necessary work on the preparation of the investment programme. On the other hand, there are efforts at the creation of the organizational structure of the Entity Fund. We've actually made a statement to the public about the assets funds that have been transferred to the asset fund of Turkey, some of the public economics that have been saved by the Undersecretary of the Treasury. Mr. Topal, there is no sale plan at this time regarding the sale of the buildings on Hatay, especially considering the sensitiveness of that area. Mr. Özdemir, in fact, in my previous answer, I told the teachers about the increases that we've made over the past 15 years and that they've really improved their well-being. Hopefully, at the beginning of 2018, we will increase the welfare of our teachers with additional opportunities for teachers, both as a service arm and as part of a general collective contract. In terms of the appointment, according to our current budget plan, we planned the appointment of 20,000 teachers in 2018. Mr. Yım, I've instructed my friends about the staff of the baneman, so it's a delicate matter. We'll do what we need for personnel, hopefully, here, as in all our provinces. Any work on configuration is currently out of the question. As for Bitcoin, of course, he's been getting a lot closer to the public lately. Both the Central Bank and the Undersecretary of Treasury, both the Capital Market Board and the Finance Ministry, are technically working on this right now, so when it gets to a point, we make a joint assessment of both the legal infrastructure and the necessary explanations on this matter. Mr. Arslan expressed his own sensitivity to the arrangement of subcontractors. Right now, we have people working under a service contract based on employing over a million employees, brothers and sisters. They want this arrangement to come out as soon as possible, before New Year's Eve. Indeed, these brothers await good news from the government morning and evening. Mr. President has expressed both the framework and the possibilities for this matter in their speech, and our Prime Minister has expressed them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0467par0081	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0465par0083	At the moment, the two ministries are busy working on subcontractorial work, along with our Ministry of Labor on publicisation arrangements. The work is almost technically complete, and the decisions on the main parametres have been made. Hopefully, we'll have this arrangement that all of our subcontractors are waiting for, and they want it to come to life before New Year's Eve.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0467par0084	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0468par0085	In the council, where is it, Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0467par0086	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0469par0087	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0467par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0469par0089	I've listened to the Minister, and I'll tell you this in advance: 1 million people are watching the House. We, the main opposition party, as the Republican People's Party, pledge to our nation that we are willing to contribute to the fact that an equal, fair, reasonable subcontractor's proposal for law comes to parliament at Christmas, and as quickly as possible, I don't say day, not hour, but hour after hour, that we are ready to contribute to our country. (Applause from CHP) I would also like to stress that a staff logic with the subcontractor KHK will lead to bigger problems in Turkey because it will block the path of justice to some injustices that will be within it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0467par0091	Thank you, too. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: a) The distribution of grants given by article 1 [[A]] B) revenues to continue to collect according to legislation related to public administrations under central administration [[B]] C) Basic provisions based on the income of public administrations under central administration [[C]] ) Baseds on the use and expenditure of some funds [[E]] D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) estimates that the management and institutions, which are included in the ruler (III), will be used by the means of cash. [[F]] e) daily and compensation in accordance with Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 [[H]] f) Financial and other limits that should be shown in budget law according to various laws and regulations [[I]] g) In addition classes, conferences and overwork fees and the sums of other fees [[K]] đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards run by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Code 2698 [[M]] H) The purchase value of animals, dated 7/6/1939, and under National Defense Responsibility Act 3634, will be taken through national defense. [[He']] I) Under Law 3634, the average purchases of motor vehicles via the national defense contract and the daily rent costs [[P]] i) The type of transports available to public administrations in Tables (II) and (III) are available in the year's course of service, the type of vehicles available to them, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to car 5/1/1961 and subsidiaries that are subject to Car Law 237 during the year. [[T]] j) Home service monthlys bound by laws and decrees [[V]] Mr. Deniz Depboylu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 4. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0470par0127	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action on Article 4 of the Budget Law Bill we discussed. Before I begin, I salute the great Turkish nation and the great Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the item we're discussing includes pensions and additional tuition fees for educational institutions belonging to the Ministry of National Education. This is a few of your jokes, and so I would like to first talk about the housing problems our children have when they're using their right to education. First of all, I would like to point out that the family environment is the most important place where the child's behavior is shaped, his physical and emotional needs are being met, especially the feeling of love and trust. Above all, the government must support children's families in order to lead a healthy life spiritually and physically. However, children who can't stay with their family, who have no means of staying with them, should definitely continue their education under state protection. However, a strict audit is also required for the institutions and institutions in which children reside. In recent years, the PKK has motivated the common anxiety and protection reflex of all of us, the damage and suffering caused by terrorist organisations such as Ankara, DAEŞ, our state and our nation. It is one of the most important tasks of the state to develop urgent and permanent measures to avoid experiencing similar suffering over and over again. That is why it is important to develop awareness and awareness of social disasters such as fire, earthquakes, as well as terrorism. We have to remember that terrorist organizations also brainwash children by feeding the state, nation, with feelings of hatred and anger. Therefore, it is vital that sufficient budgets for boarding boarding boarding schools be cut for a complete solution to the housing problem in education. However, all parents who live in rural areas, especially low socioeconomic standards, should be trained and conscious about terrorist traps against their children. If you remember -- it's impossible to forget -- we had a dorm fire in Aladağ district of Adana, and we lost our children as a result of the incident. So we set up a congressional investigation, and we did some research. Frankly, what's most troubling me is that the present dangers remain. Why do I think that? Let me share with you what I have seen: there was another men's dorm that had been opened and operated by the founder of the burning dorm. When we went to investigate, we wanted to examine the building, and we saw that there was still a room in one section of the entrance. The floors were completely carpeted; one fire exits were from the room, the other from the door, against the wall; the street exit was uncertain and the steps were irregular; another fire exit ended, and the children came out three metres high. After the fire inspection, we found that the country was given time to complete its shortcomings and to repair the defects, but it was allowed to continue its work. Of course, it was shut down after our review, but it has caused us a different kind of anxiety. Why is it that in a place like Aladağ, when the government and people are still looking out for it, the children are left under this threat with favours and ignoring, what is the condition of the dorms all over the country, how are they being inspected, how are they being audited, we have concerns about it. Taking into account the flaws and negligence of the audits that have been carried out so far, we need to make arrangements to ensure that if there is a flaw, if there is negligence, they will receive the highest penalty before they experience sad events. Again, we don't know who goes in and out of these dorms, who teaches children what they teach them. All non-registered officials must be prevented from entering and leaving their homes and contacting students. Any religious education given in the homes should be under the supervision of the state, under the control of and under the control of the President of Religious Affairs again, including his knowledge. This is the way religious education is organised for children in all institutions and institutions, and given the events that have been uncovered so far, we need to know how important it is if we accept that terrorism is committed not only by intellectual abuse but also by religious abuse. We already know the importance of school psychologists and guidance counselors in the discovery of many neglects, flaws, and crimes against children, especially sexually abused, so they should serve in dorms and schools. What needs to be done from now on is to protect our children by taking into account all kinds of risks and threats, raising awareness of families, creating gaps in government administration and education, especially. The children the state has claimed will belong to the state and the great Turkish nation because they feel safe in the future, and will look out for their interests. The children raised by groups who claim to have taken care of children by filling the gaps created by the state, will carry out the orders of those whom they believe to have taken care of, as we have experienced today, as we have now experienced on the 15th of July. In our report on the fire in Aladağ, we printed on it: "Especially those who do not employ proper staff in the fire code should be prevented from accepting students during the summer vacation period, unless they meet their conditions until the school opens date in 2017-2018." How many dorms were audited? How many homes have been closed that do not have the proper conditions? How many children have been transferred to boarding schools in these dorms? There's no answer. Dear lawmakers, our students and teachers have a lot of problems in national education. We all know the economic problems of our teachers. They're overwhelmed by certain debts, loan debts, and they have to look for a second job. Some of them are struggling to cope with anxiety and depression under the pressure of unresolved problems. How is it possible for a teacher to be a teacher in a teacher's room in three separate positions -- staffed, contracted, and paid? We look at it on one side, our children's problems, we look at them, our teachers' problems in education are huge. There are a lot of teachers and vocational groups waiting for my appointment. With all the problems that need to be fixed, so much spending to be done, I'd like to tell you a little bit about it today, a little bit about it, and hopefully everyone will get their share of the story. It's a little story: once upon a time, there was a very, very rich man. This rich man had a lot of money, but he had a problem, and he was too scared to die. When he began to grow old, he made a will, feeling that he was near to death, saying, "If anyone spends one night in the grave with me on the night of my death, all my property and wealth belong to him." Then he dies. They're going to bury him, they've announced his will, but no one dares spend a night in that grave with him. Then there was a poor chimney sweep, a rope on his shoulder, and he overheard it. He said: "I have spent my life cleaning narrow, dark chimneys. What's one night in a grave, I can handle it. In the end, I live in prosperity, in abundance. I admit it. They said, "Here you are." They took it, they celebrated it, because of your courage. Then it came to pass at night, and when the time came, the angels came. One of them said, "Let's question the dead one. The other said, "We already have the dead one. Let's question the one who's alive. Is that him? They've decided to question the one who's alive, and they've started to ask: "Who are you, what are you, what are you, what are you, what are you, what are you on your shoulder?" Where did you get that rope? How did you get that rope? What did you do with that rope? What did you do with it? Where did you go with that rope? Where did you spend your winnings on that rope? It lasted until morning, and in the end, it was morning. The man was exhumed in applause. They said, "Bravo, you've done it, all the wealth, all the property is yours." The man took a deep breath and said, "There isn't. I couldn't account for a rope until morning, and I can't account for this fortune at all. You can have the fortune. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Dear MPs, the most difficult test of the test is to be tested by power, by power, and by budget. It is a great responsibility to set up a government budget and to spend it in the right places. You have a great responsibility. I wish you the best of our budget, hoping that you're aware of that, and I salute you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0471par0144	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre will speak. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0472par0148	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on Article 4 of the Central Budget Act of 2018. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, from the beginning, I'd like to say that nothing is perfect, so even if you look carefully at a job that's done well, there's definitely something missing when you're thoroughly researched. Now, even if I had to go through everything with this budget bill -- and assume that I'm a very attractive congressman -- and I've found some very striking points here, will I get any results when I bring them up here? I don't see that as a possibility. I mean, why don't I see it? Because I've listened to a large portion of the speech of lawmakers speaking on behalf of the opposition here, and no one has made a request for their own benefit, they've asked for the country, but we've seen no change in anything in general. So we can't say that all of these findings are mistakes, and we don't see much of a separate application in your 15 years of power, very exceptional. Well, then why are we taking promises, why are we getting ready, and why are we talking here? In fact, this is clearly the case, dear friends, that we're going down in history, so it's equivalent to the fact that no matter how we talk about our problems here, no matter what we say, it's impossible to live the wrong life. So in the big picture, we can't change anything, and this Parliament can't perform its overall function. Now, my dear friends, once we have made this determination, let's say that once the economy in the country is truly desired to ensure the development of the country, if such a will exists, the State of Emergency must be removed in the first place. There is no election in the State of Emergency, there is no democracy in the State of Emergency, there is no budget in the State of Emergency. Look, the Constitutional lawmakers describe the times ruled by the State of Emergency, and they say: "The longer it takes to return to a normal legal system and democratic life in a country, the more difficult it will be to return to its normal life functions when the period of waking up is delayed, just as the state of emergency law is delayed. Now, this is exactly the situation we're in. Turkey is moving from good to good into a hybrid democracy, and as long as it lasts, we will not be able to get back from it. The state of emergency in Turkey must be lifted at once. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Secondly, dear friends, look, in all our conversations here, I say it's our primary duty to uphold Parliament's law in the first place. I'm going to give you an example: In the past few days, Interior Minister Sulejman Soylu gave a speech here, and in part of his speech, he received a pamphlet, and said, "The Impact Research Commission Report says this is what this report says about the Republican People's Party." Now, dear friends, look, I'm going to say something more than what he wrote there, what he pronounced there in the first place. For one thing, as a member of the law, I'm asking you, what's this coup commission report doing in an executive member? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, I asked the question here earlier, and I said, look, on January 3, 2018, it's going to be a year since the coup commission has completed its mission, and there's still no report. As a member of the coup commission, I have not received this report. We're asking, it hasn't been published, it hasn't been distributed yet. Where did the Home Secretary get that report, who did he get it from? That's the first one. Secondly, we're dealing with three or four different reports right now. Once, there was a report leaked to the press. And then months later, there was a public report, which we found was a little more diluted than what was leaked to the press. Then there was another report of opposition martyrs. After that, we thought we'd go to the press. That's the hacker report the Home Secretary was talking about, and they wanted to be published. When we realized this, we went to the Speaker, and we told Mr. Kahraman: "Is there such an application of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?" After completing the ruling report, after completing the commission report, giving the opposition time, can it be played on that report again? He said, "You're right. Well, this needs to be removed, and if it can't be removed, give us time. We'll give you a double response, but in fact, you have to take it off. You're right. He said, and look, dear friends, we've been given written time. So in the report of the commission, a thousand-and-odd pages, the report stated that the relationship between the People's Party of the Republic and the People's Party of the Republic had been assembled on the three pages, with the evidence of the 70-page article, called the AKP-CHP brotherhood. (CHP cheers) Now, we've come up with so much hard evidence, photos, they got the report, they can't print it. Now, why did I tell you this part in so much detail, and I care? It shows that the Home Secretary came here to present that report and to make it appear as if it was evidence of a matter within the report: The Home Secretary says that I, the Republican People's Party and its leader are preparing a plot next semester. He's clearly admitting it from this stand. Well, that's his proof. Mr. Home Secretary, do you believe that he read that thousand-page report, dear friends? One of them said to him, "You get on the stand, and you talk to those three pages. This is actually an important indication of how Parliament is now governed, how it works.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0473par0157	Mr. Zeynel, your leader said it was a controlled coup.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0472par0158	Dear friends, look, the right to know the truth is a universal right, a violation of human rights. If the truth is hidden from a society, there will be a human rights violation, one of the concepts that is now accepted in the world. The money was stolen in Turkey, it was stolen, and now the truth is being stolen. We share all data with society objectively, our primary responsibility to society in the first place, our honest sharing of all data. Now, we're getting very good at budgets, very good at economy, and we all know that there's a serious social justice problem in Turkey, there's an inequality, there's a disorder in economic distribution, and we don't see any policy developing to fix it. In Turkey, we still find that there is a fundamental policy that is persistently moving on to the work of contractors. Look, dear friends, if we really want to improve the economy, we need to increase the level of education in the first place, and we need to invest more in this area. When I look at this budget, I don't see the difference between the budget for the National Education in 2017 and the inflation down to 2018, very, very similar figures. What does that mean? We see that there is no additional budget on this issue. Now, we also don't see a fundamental framework for producing products that are equally qualified to produce products, which is the added value of producing high products. Now, why am I saying this? Dear friends, for what it's worth, for once, we see that some contractors, whether they're from the past, whether they're from the ANAP, or from the Right Way, or from their origin, or even from their left, are now a very strict AKP fan. And we know that these contractors are actually building a pool, so most of them are public events, media bosses, etcetera. Now, it's clear that there's a basic logic being observed here when the budget is being drawn up. It's a policy to feed these contractors. In Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0474par0162	What do you mean?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0472par0163	Let me make this very clear to you. At the moment, for God's sake, what scientific research is there to suggest that the Canal Istanbul Project will help Turkey, Istanbul, and what authority says it is very useful? Here says Mr. Erdogan: "This is my dream." It's nice to have a politician's dream, it's not to be criticized, but the state, it's almost like playing Lego...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0475par0164	You can't even imagine.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0472par0165	It's not a device that we imagine and apply in our own way; it's what we do in terms of needs and priorities. Likewise, city hospitals. Look, my dream was to build multi-bed hospitals. Dear friends, when a priority is made, it will come at the end again because there will be serious rents here next semester, and now we see that the modern world is heading for different methods, such as pre-hospital home care. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, we can't talk about tourism. Look at the hospitals when he was head of the SEC, and you'll see how it's needed. Mr. President, I'll wrap it up, if you'll just open it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0476par0171	Complete it, all right. I'll give you an extra minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0472par0173	Now, according to the need, we need a budget usage, a healthy prediction in that direction. Turkey is not, after all, a country that will be shaped in accordance with anyone's personal desires, happiness, and desires. When we look at this budget from this point of view, there is no innovation that it has brought back from previous years, and we see that there is a continuation of established practices in Turkey during your time of power. I salute the General Assembly with these thoughts.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0476par0176	Thank you, Mr. Emre. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0477par0179	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 4 of the Budget Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I would like to stress the issues of democratisation of our country and the urgency of a democratic constitution as part of the 2018 Budget Law Bill, which we've been discussing for two weeks and are close to the end. Dear MPs, the need for a new and participating constitution as a new community contract in Turkey has been a subject of debate on various grounds for years. Of course, in extraordinary times, the fact that the constitutions in the coup period did not meet the democratic demands of different social communities living in our country, but that each coup constitution leads to increasing and deepening social problems remains a very costly experience. The constitution of the 1982 coup still in effect is such a text. Rather than creating a quality to develop the historical and cultural savings of this geography during the period that prepares the republic, and after 1923, the development of the monogamous nation's structure on the ground of modernity has reduced ignoring differences, suppressing differences, in a nutshell, to recoding the different one negatively. So, in fact, the dissertation of the people who had been subject to the state in the period leading up to the many-pronounced republic, along with the republic, was symbolic, that they had become equal male and female citizens with the freedom to choose and be elected. In the period of about a hundred years, for example, it is still a matter of celebrating the anniversary of the right to choose and be elected to women, but it is not being questioned whether the parliamentary MPs in parliament are women, whether the mayors or parties' mayors or district heads are women, whether they are women. Fortunately, the HDP is in a position to set a good example for all political parties. He has exceeded the concept of quota in his representation of women, and he has the right pride of being a model political party at the co-chair and at the level of representation in the entire management scheme. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, on the other hand, the internal dynamics of having a say are still largely blocked because the demands of equal citizenship of different social communities are being constantly suppressed, in other words, because the mechanisms of right-based opposition are constantly blocked. Dear MPs, of course, it wouldn't be wrong to consider the European Union integration processes in this context. For change and transformation such as Turkey, the European Union's acquisitor is a significant external dynamic for countries where domestic dynamics are inadequate. You have to accept that. With all of us present, the Turkish community experienced this dynamic in the 2000s. At the end of 2002, political and economic reforms continued in the early years of the Justice and Development Party government, which began with the coalition government, opened the way for the society's search for change and transformation; Turkey has caught a crucial momentum, thanks to an unprecedented synergy between the state and society. Although today's momentum is windy, the importance of this missed opportunity is remarkable in understanding of the historical error of what has been done and the darkness of our country after this error. Precious lawmakers entered a intensive reform process on the implementation of the Copenhagen Political Criteria in order to begin accession talks in Turkey, with full membership candidacy for the EU at the European Union's State and Governments Summit in Helsinki on December 10-11 1999. There have been significant civil changes, reforms in law and punishment cases, from the beginning of a partial extradition of the confiscation of law and punishment cases, to the expansion of the fields of freedom of expression from torture, to the removal of state security courts from the fight against torture, to the removal of the death penalty, to the removal of the bans on broadcasting in different languages and dialects, to the end of the General Assembly membership in the minority, from the part of the confiscation of community institutions. At the end of 2004, the EU side decided to start accession talks in exchange for Turkey's performance in Copenhagen Political Criters. The talks began in October 2005, but this positive EU process was adopted because it was not managed well. Mr. President, the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, which puts the country's urgent need for a new and democratic constitution before its completion, has failed. See, we've all lived together in the process of democratisation and the process of peace, where the hope of political solutions in the Kurdish problem flourishes again, and the July 15 coup attempt that followed, and the process of the State of Emergency that brought the country into existence. However, it must be noted that the need and hope for a new and democratic constitution remain alive in society to provide a minimum democratic basis for the peace and prosperity of society. Dear lawmakers, the level of rights and freedoms in a society is related to the nature of democracy in that society. There is no doubt that the understanding of rights and freedom of countries ruled by a devoid of substance, a form of democracy and the understanding of rights and freedom of societies in which an advanced democracy is implemented, including all elements of modern democracy. But citizens' rights and freedoms should be evaluated only by the parameters of modern democracies in a country that has been a model of Western civilization for 200 years and is conducting accession talks with the EU. On this basis, all problems in Turkey need to be resolved in accordance with the standards of an advanced democracy based on human rights, pluralist, participant, liberal, rule of law and equal citizenship. As a matter of fact, inter-national agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms imposed according to Article 90 of the Constitution shall be based on inter-national agreement agreements on the same issue due to the different provisions of the law on the same issue. The decision shall be based on a major basis for the construction of a modern democracy in Turkey. Dear MPs, as it is known, Turkey is also a founding member of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. The European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and accepted the obligations born of the contract. Turkey signed with 34 countries in 1975 and signed all the decisions made by attending meetings in the European Security and Co-operation Agency, envisioned by this agreement. In this regard, Turkey is also the signator of the Paris Condition, where a new era on the basis of human rights, democracy, law and peace has been declared and approved in Europe. Turkey also signed the United Nations Convention on Individual and Political Rights and Economics, Social and Cultural Rights. Mr. President, you see, in the wake of the State of Emergency, Turkey has suffered a historical loss of reputation for democracy and judicial independence, while our citizens have unfortunately experienced a great lack of confidence in the justice system. The arrest, suspension of elected lawmakers, mayors, journalists, academics, by means of methods that undermine the standard of innocence is a sign that a reliable legal system, a reliable justice mechanism, is no longer available. The Venice Commission, the most competent body in the constitutional issues of Europe, has made it clear in its reports that the decision on the removal and arrest of our MPs is incompatible with European legal norms. On the other hand, there are constant decisions and compensation sentences against Turkey in the ECHR concerning the irregularities that have occurred. If Turkey truly wants to become a democratic, secular, social, law state and become a full member of the European Union, I once again stress to you that it does not have the luxury of taking into account the modern, universal principles of law and international contracts, which are matured by the profound experience of human history, which it has accumulated, and signed under it, with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0478par0193	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The talks for the group are over. On behalf of Erzurum MP Orhan Deligöz will now speak for himself. Here you go, Mr. Crazy Eyes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0479par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf in the 2018 budgetary talks on the 4th article. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The budget of 2018, which we have done as an EC PARTY, is a reflection of the economic stability provided by political stability. THE EC PARTY gained the trust of our nation in an understanding that did not break its promises, that fulfilled its promises, that did not deceive our people with false promises. 43% of the pre-EC PARTY budgets have gone towards interest payments, while 9 per cent today have fallen. Budget deficits have been reduced from 11 per cent to 12%. All of this was provided with a strict fiscal discipline policy. So I'd like to thank Mr. Finance Minister Naci Agbal. The AK PARTY has come with a sense of economic and social objectives. Resources have been forwarded to the ministry instead of the runt, which has increased the fertility. Dear MPs, budgets are not just dry numbers to us, but human-oriented tools to increase the welfare of our people and to build the future safely. In the past, we have reached a visionary Turkey from Turkey, which has not been predicted for a year or even a week, to generations to come. The AK PARTI government is a government that knows what it's doing, and has a plan and a program for the future, and is moving towards its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071. As in all our provinces during the AK PARTY administrations, Erzurum, the city where national fighting foundations were laid, was originally invested in more than 30 billion, mainly education, health, transport, agriculture and sports. In addition to Ataturk University, which was opened during the late Menderes, Erzurum Technical University was opened and the education was crowned during the AK PARTI period. The Eastern Anatolia Observatory, built in Erzurum, is about to go into service, and with this observatory, Turkey has become one of the few countries in the world that can design and produce its own national telescope and imaging system. With the city hospital, dams, ponds, tunnels, roads, infrastructure and public buildings in Erzurum, our government's work continues to make Erzurum a more habitable, improved, developed and prosperous city. Besides, the express train will be in service before 2023. Thus, Erzurum will be able to travel from Ankara to Erzurum in just five and a half hours, and Erzurum will be in eight and a half hours from Istanbul to Erzurum. With our unique geography, historical heritage and dynamic population structure, the 21st century will be Turkey's century. Dear lawmakers, I attended the international conference "Niger Rebirths again" held by Niger on 13 December 2017 in Paris and represented our country and the Veteran Assembly, attended by the top executives of 20 European countries, which were headed by Niger President Mahamadou Issoufou, and five African presidents. In my speech at this conference, I explained Turkey's struggle with PKK, PYD and DEAS terrorist organizations from the danger of Ferhat terror organization worldwide. I have once again stated on an international platform that Trump's decision on Jerusalem has led to chaos and chaos in the region rather than peace and quiet, that this decision has been ruled out, that we have ignored this decision. Dear MPs, Erzurum, who we consider the capital of winter sports, hosted and successfully concluded two international organisations in 2011 and 2017. Now, we strive to do the winter Olympics at Erzurum in 2026. The winter sports season in Erzurum has begun, and I hereby invite our entire Assembly and all Turkey to ski in Erzurum, especially our Minister of Sports Osman Love Bak Bey. I hereby ask that our 2018 budget be blessed, bring peace and prosperity to our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0480par0206	Thank you, Mr. Crazy Eyes. On behalf of the person, Mr. Özkan Yım will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Supreme Court, Mr. Secretary, my dear colleagues and all our viewers in the world who are watching us, I wish you all the best of evenings at this hour of the night. Mr. President, I wish Mr. Finance Minister were here, so we could discuss what's going on in this budget for just a little bit, two minutes. In this budget, I, for one, want to share my knowledge with you, especially the car that all citizens use, especially in every household, when we get a little more professional, the truck, the service, the school bus, what do I say, the truck, and the truck -- you know, in this matter, I want to share my knowledge with you as well as my profession. Mr. Secretary, first of all, when you're making a budget, you need to think about all the cuts. When you were doing this budget, you didn't think about the delivery guy, you didn't think about the farmer, you didn't think about the mover, the bus driver, the van driver, none of them, you didn't even think about the minimum wage. You know why you didn't? Because if you do it for minimum wage, you'll give a $100 or $150 raise, but before you give the minimum wage a $150 raise, you've seen a lot of the Dogan-looking Falcon that he used last month, you've given a 25 percent increase in MTV, you've even taken the Hawk-looking Falcon from his hand, you've sold it. Well, you're saying that we've grown 11.1 percent. Look, the growth rate in Switzerland is 1.2, but I don't see it in Switzerland. I only see these images in Turkey, unfortunately, and I want to make it clear that when I see these images in Turkey, my insides are burning, and my insides are hurting. On the other hand, we've all had a lot of discussions about it, especially last year, and there's already a big gap in our budget. I'll tell you where this gap came from: this gap came from Osman Gazi Bridge. In the first year, look, I specifically stated that at the Osman Gazi Bridge -- you know I've said this many times -- 40,000 vehicles per day guaranteed passage. So, how long has it been since the day? Only 17,000 vehicles passed. You know, the manufacturer has $35 plus a contract from the VAT. What the hell is he doing? That's 23,000 times 42 euros a day, including VAT, which makes $966,000 a day paid to the company, times 365, which is a year, which is already out of our budget...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0482par0216	I'm here, I'm here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0217	352 million, 590 grand... look, 352 million, 590 grand. Oh, yes, the Minister of Finance is here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0482par0218	We're here, we're here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0219	Mr. Secretary, I've already been informed that due to the budget, the wrong contract, the misunderstanding...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0483par0220	It wouldn't be wrong with us.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0221	There is, there is, look, I'm telling you loud and clear, if this number is wrong, I'm resigning, Mr. Secretary, I'm resigning. (HPP's applause) Again, it has been confirmed that there were 23,000 daily crossings last year due to the 40,000 guarantees from the Osman Gazi Bridge. $23,000 per day -- that's $35,000 plus VAT -- that's 966 thousand a day, times 365, 352 million a year -- is already on your budget. It's not a lesson to you, it's not a lesson to us, now you've made your second mistake. Where do you do it? This year we have started, laid its foundation in the land of Mr. Turan. In the land of Mr. Gizal, in the land of my brother, in the land of my brother, in the bridge of Çanakkale. Well, that mistake, that lesson was enough for us, wasn't it enough for you? Look what you've done. You said to the constructive firm: "We guarantee 45,000 passes per day." Look, there's no more than the Çanakkale Eceabat, or Lapseki. No problem, let's get a 14 grand guarantee, let's face it, 14 grand, 30 to 31 grand out of 45,000 when we fall. To a company that's already constructive, and that firm is your usual firm, you know, so you know, it's an ally firm. I don't want to tell you who he is. You're already at 200m euros a year's loss, and I'll make that very clear.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0484par0222	How long does it take to run, how many years?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0223	So already in the budget, there's about 352 million dollars from Osman Gazi, and 200m euros from the Çanakkale Bridge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll explain if you give me an extension. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking for my time now because there's one final point left.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0485par0226	You want it now, in advance.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0227	Yeah, it's already over, you know.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0485par0228	All right, I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0486par0230	Mr. President, the road to the ministry has been opened.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0485par0231	But I don't want to, I don't want to.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0232	Yeah, I hope...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0485par0233	I don't want to, I don't want to.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0234	Why not?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0485par0235	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0236	Madam Secretary, as you can see, this is the tractor, does anyone object to that? Does anyone object to this being a tractor? In Europe, it is referred to as a tractor, but in Turkey, the fuel it uses is definitely given without KTV, VAT, without VAT, without VAT; whether it is Bulgaria, Greece, Germany, Belgium, France, whatever country you buy, this tractor is given without KDV, without VAT. However, somehow, as if this tractor was going on a trip to the taxi, what can I say, here, as if it were going for a ride in the Redbeard Square, our farmers are given diesel for 5 TL, or diesel for the tractor that our farmer is using. It's a shame! It's a shame about our farmer, Mr. Secretary. Besides, look, I'm saying that we have citizens who use this -- of course, we have citizens who use it; they have the most natural right, they have the money -- and the citizen buys diesel from 1.8. Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0487par0239	Wow!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0488par0240	Thank you, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0241	So give the budget from here to the farmers driving this tractor, Mr. Secretary, it's that clear.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0488par0243	Thank you, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0481par0244	I thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0489par0245	Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0246	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0247	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0250	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in fact, while Mr. Finance Minister is here, we'd like to remind you of the expectations of nearly a million subcontractors and debates about when the law will come out. Indeed, one of Turkey's most basic agendas has been the fact that a staff has been given to subcontractors with guarantees and job guarantees, but there has been widespread news that all media-release agencies today will be given a staff for Turkish subcontractors. It's one of the main applications of the ruling party: first the story gets leaked, then it's done. I mean, we've been asking the Finance Minister about it for weeks...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0251	But that was asked.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0492par0252	He didn't answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0253	He hasn't responded yet. On behalf of the party, we're asking again as HDP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0254	It's not like he's gonna answer the same question all the time, but please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0255	We've called as a party before. Really, this kind of bypass of the House is unacceptable. If the subcontractors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0258	I gave you one minute, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0259	Mr. President, on behalf of the Deputy Director of the Group, I'm speaking as acting attorney.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0260	Do you have a power of attorney?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0261	I do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0493par0262	Yes, sir, I do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0263	You didn't put it on the stand, so...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0264	It's for you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0265	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0266	It is contrary to the Constitution, since it is not due to the extraordinary declaration of state of affairs that has caused the staff to be given to subcontracted by the Turkish Cypriot workers. What's hiding? Why don't the political parties all pass this law in the House together? There's no point in the House going on vacation. Let's not go on vacation, I say we all take the law to the subcontractors that a million workers have been waiting for and deserve. We also have one concern: there must be a flaw, and then there will be an arrangement against the worker, which is expected to be applied to a method such as exfilting with the KHK. We're waiting for Mr. Finance Minister's answer on this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0491par0268	Mr. Finance Minister responded to that. If we wish, he'll give us another one.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0494par0269	He didn't, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0270	He didn't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0494par0271	He didn't say whether he'd be in law or in Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0495par0272	We're gonna do a ten-minute QA.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0273	Flexible...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0495par0274	Who?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0496par0275	I swear to God, everyone understands for themselves.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0490par0276	You said it had to be soon. But when?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0497par0277	With what?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0498par0278	Congressmans, look...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0497par0279	Is this for Congress?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0498par0280	Congressmans, Mr. Paylan, you asked this question...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0497par0281	We didn't get an answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0499par0282	We didn't ask.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0498par0283	It's been answered. If necessary, the Minister will answer again. Now we're going to ask questions and answers, but Mr. Turan has asked for a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0500par0287	Mr. President, my dear friends, I thank Mr. Özkan for his statements, but I would like to stress one small issue: not the Çanakkale Bridge, but the tender there, which is actually the Kinalı-Tekirdağ-Tanakkale-Wartepe Highway, a 101km, a major highway. There's only a three-mile bridge. Besides, right now, the day-to-day transition isn't in the 4,000s, it's over 14,000s. Although it is not now the Marmara ring, although all roads are incomplete, 14,000 crossings are predicted to exceed 40,000 in the end of the bridge, five and a half years later. Secondly, Mr. President, I'm from Çanakkale. In Çanakkale, let alone the possibility of 14 thousand, 44,000 crossings, the possibility of a single ambulance passing through, even a single tourist carriage, even a single fruit vegetable truck, and that bridge would need Çanakkale. It's a do-and-run bidding method, open bid. If it's that profitable, Mr. Ozkan can enter the tender. We want a bridge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me one more minute...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0501par0291	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0500par0292	Being a great government requires building that bridge. Without a gram of money coming out of the government's safe, that bridge is built, and 16 years later, it's all government property. So in the name of the future of the citizens, I think that this bridge, which will be given to the Chanakkaleli by this tender method, is very valuable to the future of agriculture, industry, tourism. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0501par0294	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0501par0296	What is your request? Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0297	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we have just received a statement from our servant Congressman Özkan Yılim...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0503par0298	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0299	...the Çanakkale Bridge gave a speech that meant that it was against the construction of the bridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0300	No, no, no, he didn't, he just said his name was wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0301	That's what it means.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0302	No, no.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0303	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Ozkan will make a statement.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0304	He has to make a statement, but there's nothing wrong with it, Mr. Turan, not a speech that would give such an impression.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0502par0305	That's right, Mr. President. Mr. Ozkan versus the bridge. Even if a car passes by, we'll do it. What does that mean? You don't want to, but we will.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0505par0306	Not Mr. Ozkan, but CHP was against Çanakkale, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0307	Mr. Altay didn't say that, he just said that the bridge was five kilometers away, that's all. Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0506par0309	Mr. President, I don't think it's my place, if you'd like... There are additives.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0310	No, I'll give you my word for your position for a minute, and I promise not to pick on you here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0506par0311	But, if you'll excuse me, he made another accusation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0312	Mr. Yim, I promise you one minute from your position, if you'd like to turn on your microphone and talk, I'll start processing. I won't extend the time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0507par0313	Then don't pass it on to everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0314	To our group presidents...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0507par0315	Don't pass it on to us, we want justice.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0316	Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0508par0317	Not Mr. Ozkan, but the Çanakkale CHP Agency, the Mayor's office was always against it, they put up posters, Mr. President. We're against it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0504par0318	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0320	Mr. President, Mr. Turan is definitely wrong. Why is he saying it wrong? For one thing, we find it absolutely necessary to build this bridge and confirm that it is needed.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0508par0321	They call it the CHP?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0322	None of our organizations are against Çanakkale or any of our other boroughs. Besides, he just said that the dog's name is not the Canakkale Bridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0508par0324	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0325	Look, when we open the tender agreement, it's called the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, which is exactly what it stands for in the tender. Plus, I repeat, from this bridge -- again, I repeat -- at least 200 million euros per year, from Mr. Secretary's budget, we're going to lose our budget, I repeat.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0327	But here it is, and now it's the same, so let's not do it. It's the bridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0328	No, not at all. The system of the tender is wrong, the terms of the tender are wrong. So there's a lesson not learned from Osman Gazi Bridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0329	Then say this, the tender is wrong. Say it. He's not saying that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0330	The terms of the tender are wrong. So it's a bidding system to make a firm richer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0333	Mr. Lawmakers, wait a minute... it's not over Mr. Yilmam. I'll give you one more minute. Go ahead, Mr. Eater.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0335	Thank you. Look, it's definitely the wrong way of bidding. While there was a lesson to be learned from Osman Gazi Bridge, I made several motions, asked a written question, spoke to Mr. Transport Minister, and even to the Prime Minister, although I told him, unfortunately, they matched the terms of the tender to one-on-one with the same Osman Gazi Bridge, and made a transition guaranteed tender. What's wrong here is the number of vehicles passing through that area, seven a day, ten a day, maybe 12-15 on the holidays, but it's never guaranteed 45,000 vehicles, it can't make that transition. For this reason, every year it will damage our budget, at least 200m euros in the budget we are talking about in 2018.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0337	Yeah, that's what you said.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0338	For him, the way the tender is made is wrong; I specifically state the conditions. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0340	Now it's clear, yes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0509par0341	And we're not against the bridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0510par0342	No, it's clear, Mr. Eater. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0511par0345	Mr. President, I want to thank Mr. Ozkan again. We don't want the bridge all the way to the Bosphorus. We want the CHP, which is equipped with the banners, now we want the bridge. I'm very happy to have them evolve to CHP. So far they've been against us, and now they're calling us non-contractors.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0512par0346	When was it rigged?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0513par0347	Did you ever hear of any of that? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0511par0348	Friends, I'm from Çanakkale...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0512par0349	Bulent, is there such a thing?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0514par0350	Mr. Oz can't talk right now, just a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0512par0351	No, come and answer me if you have one.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0515par0352	We don't want the bridge until the throat of the entire Çanakkale. They've decorated it with a banner, Mr. President. I'll send you the photos. Second, we're talking about a bridge that will be the state in 16 years, and we're talking about the needed bridge. Our farmer there, our farmer, our touristist, is concerned that in every rain, the car lifts up, does the boat run? That's where the bridge is. Once again, it's a do-and-do kind of tender method, that's another method. There's a plus, there's a minus. Besides, there's no one firm, there's four companies. Two of those four companies are Turkish companies, and two are South Korea firms. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0516par0355	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0517par0356	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0516par0357	Sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0517par0358	Mr. Turan, to the Çanakkale Bridge...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0516par0359	We're having an event here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0518par0360	I'll show you pictures.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0517par0361	You may have taken pictures, because I have information that some AK PARTY people are doing black propaganda by taking CHP flags into their hands. Shame on you! Shame on you! [Applause from the ranks of the AK PARTY!]
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0518par0362	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0517par0363	Bravo!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0518par0364	Mr. President, we appreciate this return.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0519par0365	No, okay, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0520par0366	Mr. President, let's continue, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0521par0367	Mr. President, Mr. Turan, what I'm talking about is the tender system...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0519par0368	I didn't promise, Mr. Yýmim.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0521par0369	But it's not over, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0519par0370	I didn't promise you, Mr. Yum, why are you talking?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0521par0371	I want a promise.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0522par0372	Let's continue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0523par0373	I wish he was the president of the CHP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0524par0374	If Mr. Oz wants to talk, if he wants to talk, we'll take you here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0523par0375	Are you against it or not, Mr. Oz?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0525par0376	Come on, Bayram. Change for a minute. Change for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0526par0377	That's not the way it works, not at all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0525par0378	Yeah, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0527par0379	Mr. President, I'm satisfied with Mr. Ozkan's statements.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0528par0380	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0529par0382	Mr. President, it is absolutely not true that the Republican People's Party Çanakkale has formally opposed the bridge and distributed pamphlets, as Mr. Turan put it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0527par0383	It's a poster...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0529par0384	I don't know who's handing out the brochure or anything, but the Republican People's Party of Çanakkale has never handed out a pamphlet like this, including the districts, the center, and we are certainly not against the bridge as the Republican People's Party Çanakkale. As Mr. Özkan Bey stated, as we have always expressed as the Republican People's Party, we just want to rephrase that we are against the way, the shape of the tender.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0530par0385	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0527par0386	Mr. President, let the record show that the Çanakkale People's People's Democratic Party (CHP) municipality does not want the entire cordon to be equipped with banners until the Bosphorus.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0530par0387	All right, it's for the beholders and the watchers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0531par0388	Where's the document? Where's the document?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0532par0389	Show me the document.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0533par0390	Come on, I'll show you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0531par0391	Fake, fake, fake.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0534par0396	Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. We're ten minutes out. In five minutes, I'll take the questions of the MPs, and in the other five minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions asked. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0535par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. We can't get a positive response while we're sitting, so I got up. Minister, I've just asked a question: Our citizens who built their homes on treasured land in Hatay are seriously victims. We also expect support from Hatay MPs from the EC PARTY. I've just had a negative response, I'm afraid. We expect you to discuss this matter in the Council of Ministers and show sensitivity to a solution. You said: "For the sake of security, which security is it? Every Turkish citizen in Hatay loves his flag, his country, his nation. I mean, I'm standing up right now, and next time, I think we need to act. Thank you very much, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0536par0405	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0537par0406	Thank you, Mr. President. The dairy incentives the farmer's been looking forward to for months are being paid these days. The breastfeeding premiums were explained at eight cents. And our manufacturers were able to figure out a budget, and maybe they owed it to the vendors who sold the bait. For example, Salim Şantay of Sulecik district of Edirne, Süloğlu province, went to the bank because of the payment of milk premiums, saying he would receive 1,800 lira, but he was paid $900, or half of it. Not only that, all the manufacturers I talked to took half of what they needed to buy. You gave everyone money, and the farmer ran out of money? Why are you making fun of the manufacturers? You can't develop animalism by cutting off the manufacturer's purchases.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0536par0408	Mr. All...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0538par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. A report sent by TRT General Directorate to Samsun Chief Public Prosecutor's Office found that 368 people of 435 who were expelled from TRT have been employed during the time of the General Directorate of İbrahim Şahin. In his statement on the matter, former General Director Ibrahim Şahin, who was investigated from ▪ I didn't know that the people from the Milky Way Group were. They were allowed to pass because publishing policies were seen as favourable by the EC PARTI. He confessed. I'm asking the Minister if the allegations mentioned during the Ibrahim Hawk period in TRT are true? Is it true that in the days of Ibrahim Şahin, 17 tenders were given to companies belonging to the entity? Is hiring 368 people on behalf of the AKP a proof that there has been a staffing? Is it appropriate for TRT as a public institution to follow a unilateral publishing policy with taxes collected from the public? Will there be an investigation into the subject of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the TRT?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0539par0415	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0540par0416	Mr. President, my question is Mr. Naci Agbala, Minister of Finance. The budget deficit continues to increase every year. In 2015, it rose from $23.5 billion to $34.5 billion in 2016. 2017 estimated 46.9 billion liras, with an estimated 61.7 billion TL in 2017, 15 billion lira errors. The estimated year 2018 was 65.9 billion TL. In short, the budget deficit continues to increase every year. There is a similar situation in interest costs. The interest was paid 51.5 billion liras in 2016. In 2017, the estimated fulfillment was 57.5 billion liras. The view of the budget is in the form of the interest budget. Mr. Secretary, what are your concrete measures to reduce interest costs? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0541par0420	Thank you, too. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0542par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Finance Minister: Mr. Agbal, the statement has been made to appoint subcontractors. It is unfair that employees in the OSCEs should not be taken advantage of and excluded from the same rights, while staffs in general and municipal and municipal private administrations are given staff. This is a violation of the Constitution's principle of equality, and this inequality must be resolved as soon as possible. What is the reason that some 40,000 subcontractors who work at CSI have been given a staff of 850,000 or 950,000 people? This number is 5 per cent of the total number to be given, and it will result in a major loss. Will there be an arrangement in this area? Will the technical workers of 4857, who have not found 5,000 under the guarantee of subcontractors, be given 4/C (b) status as well? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0543par0425	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0544par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a significant portion of the general budget tax revenue made within the city's municipal limits under Law 5779 receives 6 per cent of the taxes collected in that district. Large businesses, hotels, tourist facilities are mostly in Istanbul and Ankara, so the collection of tax revenues is not seen in our province, so it cannot be transferred to the municipality of Mughla Metropolitan, which is where its headquarters are. Do you have an arrangement for the transfer of taxes on revenues collected in the Muğla district to the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality? One, does your Ministry have any work on this? The second must be shown with an additional declaration of taxes on the revenues obtained in Zagla for the removal of injustice and must be transferred to the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality. I'd like to hear your thoughts on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0545par0430	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0546par0432	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I explained to Mr. Topal what Mr. Halal brought up about the move in Hatay. We're going to review this with our Home Secretary and our Secretary of State. None of us would want our citizens there to be victims in any way, especially in this regard. If you'll excuse me, I hope I'll make an assessment of that and get a positive result. Mr. Gaytancioglu, I'm going to look into the payment of dairy incentives, and what's the reason for that, I'm going to report it to you as information. Mr. All has shared with us some information and assessments that have been sent to the press about the ongoing investigations connected to the TRT. Of course, I don't think it's appropriate for me to say anything in private about a case that's already been brought to trial, which is still under investigation. As a government, we monitor the investigations in both public administrations and prosecutions and trials that continue in the courts. If there is a past in this matter, we will proceed with determination to the fullest of all wrongs. Mr. Tor, first of all, Mr. Tor said that last year's budget deficit closed at $34.5 billion. We explained in the correct, medium-term programme that the budget deficit would close at $34.5 billion in 2016. However, in the last three months, I believe the budget deficit of 2016 is 27.9 billion, as a result of positive economic improvements and measures taken in budgets and expenditures. So at the beginning of 2016, as a government, we've achieved the same goal of budget deficits. In that sense, there was no budget deficit above the budget target last year. And this year, we said that the budget deficit, which we announced around $47 billion, would be around $61.5 billion in the mid-term program. And I'm happy to watch here that positive economic improvements are also reflected in the revenue side of the budget. And here -- God willing -- we're going to get a very positive result in budget performance this year. One of the most successful areas of the EC PARTY governments is that it delivers services to citizens and does so by reducing budget deficits. I mean, there used to be a lot of budget deficits, but there was no service for citizens. Why wouldn't he? Again, you've made a very good point, if it's a budget interest budget, it's a lot of deficits and no service to citizens in any way. When the EC PARTI came to power, 43 lira of the 100 lira budget was going to interest, 85 lira of the $100 tax we collected was going to interest. Currently, interest costs have fallen from 43.2% to 8.5%. So it's a budget interest budget. It's really not fair to describe a statement in terms of interest. And in this way, because of the stability and the right policies that we've implemented in the economy, we've been doing a very positive performance of growth rates as a country for the past 15 years, especially after the global financial crisis, growing growth rates in many countries, while budget deficits have increased and public debt burdens have increased, I'll point out that in the OECD countries, growth rates have come down in the post-spheral crisis, budget deficits have gone up, budget deficits have increased by 90 percent, 100 percent of public debt has increased by 100 per cent, and in this time, Turkey has grown by an average of 6 per cent. The budget deficits are due after the global crisis... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0547par0439	Complete, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0546par0440	We have reduced the budget deficit in 2009 to 1 per cent in 2011 in two years, with 5.5 per cent in the post- global crisis period, and for the past five years, Turkey's central management budget deficit is around 1 per cent. We were balanced in the general budget deficit in 2015. From that point on, this budget is an interest budget. It would be really unfair to call it the interest budget. And at this time, we also reduced budget deficits and made investments, especially mega projects. For the sake of further discussion, our proxy tells me that if we didn't do that, wouldn't we have paid out of the budget if we did that, if we didn't do it that way? There's something wrong with this missing account, the math-knowing point. Why? Because I'm based on a certain assumption in the public-special cooperation model... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0547par0443	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0548par0445	Mr. Secretary, we're going to keep asking about these CITs, if you could just answer me one word.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0549par0446	Just give me an answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0547par0447	There's more stuff, then we'll move on, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0550par0448	Can I give you an answer, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0547par0449	Here, here, let me give you another minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0551par0450	Is this going to come with the KHK, Mr. Secretary, about the subcontractors?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0550par0451	Guys, we're doing a really good job of meeting expectations in terms of the institutions and employees that will cover the legal arrangement that we're going to make here. Hopefully within a day or two of this matter, including the institutions that you've expressed here -- expressed by the HDP Group -- let no one wonder, about this matter that concerns the really large communities, we will please the broad communities, take their rights further than today, and we will implement an arrangement in public, in general, that will make our employees very happy in this matter.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0552par0452	Why doesn't he come to the House, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0453	Members of parliament, there are two motions on Article 4 that I shall proceed in order of violation of the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 2018-Year Central Management Budget Bill 4th. in addition to the article "E ruler; 10. In the first sentence of the article, the "special account" of the second sentence and the "special account" of the second sentence, 16. In the first sentence of the article, it is referred to as "a private account, " or" a special account. " His sentence, 17. In the first sentence of the article, "... The private account opened by... the second sentence with the phrase, 18. In the second sentence of the article, "... The special account, which will be opened by the Minister of Development, is written in his second sentence, "In accordance with the procedures and foundations to be established by the Minister of Development, 21. "The expenditures made from these arrangements are not subject to Law number 4734 and Law number 5018." his sentence, 22. Article 1. "to the institutions in which the High Planning Board will see fit." "The High Planning Board" in its sentence, 25. Article 1. In his sentence, "... Transferred to a private account which will be opened... with the notice of the second and third sentences, 51. We offer and propose that "private accounts " in the Article shall be removed from the text of matter. Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0554par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0470	Government?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0555par0471	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0472	Members of parliament, the amendments in Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. I am reading the grounds for the motion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0556par0473	We already know, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0474	Let's do it properly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0556par0475	Did we just ask for a promise, or did we just demand it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0476	That's the way it is.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0556par0477	We know the drill.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0478	You know it, but some people don't. Here you go. With some provisions placed on the E table, the public financial management and control law No. 5018 is being tried to perforate the financial discipline brought in by this law before the ink is dry, and the ministry is inclined to make expenditures from accounts that have not been passed by parliament and have been missed from the control of parliament. These practices, which have led to the breakdown of our financial system, have been carried out in accordance with the laws of the establishment, some KHKs and budget laws (especially the E cetveline) of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 161. In our financial system, there are new problems, financial discipline and control, "special account," "special funds account," "source management account" and "uncontrollable accounts, budgets and funds" that will eliminate financial discipline and control. In particular, some provisions set out on the E table, similar to the laws that should be carried out by law, are excluded from the financial management and control system of public resources, the ministry or minister of the expenditures, supports, types, borders, limitations, scope, use, other public institutions, municipalities, private sector institutions and civil society authorities, and the basis and control of the expenditures created from these existing accounts, without subject to public spending and control laws. This causes the budgetary rights of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be blocked, but also violates the principles of fiscal transparency and accountability. In the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018, it is understood that the funds placed in the budgets of several administrations, such as the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of the European Union, the Ministry of the European Union, the Ministry of Disaster and the President of Emergency, were also intended to be transferred to private accounts, in addition to the central budget law of E cetveline, which violates the rule of Article 161. The total start-up grant in the Central Management Budget of 2018 is 2 billion 769 million 252,000 euros, which is intended to be transferred to private accounts with provisions placed on the E ruler for this purpose. As it turns out, through private accounts, the TBM is allocated, how it goes, and how it's spent, and how it's been spent, and a right to the budget, which is impossible to transfer, which is understood by the above-short assessments. This excludes the distribution and use of public resources from being transparent and predictable, out of control. Such practices also mean the creation of covered funds within a related ministry budget. The above clauses and some of the statements mentioned in the text of this article are against the Constitution's 2, 7, 87, 88, 89, 124, 160 and 161. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 2018-Year Central Management Budget Act shall be added to Article 4 of the Court of E; From the draft text of Article 55, From the text of the Ministry of Health's declaration, to determine the procedures and foundations of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the Ministry of Health, "in exchange for or without charge, From the draft text of Article 61, In the first sentence of Article 64, it is transferred to the private account, which is included in the first sentence of Article 64, from the text of the second and third sentences, In the second sentence of Article 70, a special account for the governorship is transferred to a special account...... within the procedures and foundations of the declaration of the document, which will be determined by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. From the draft text of Article 74, From the text of the second and third sentences to the special account in the first sentence of Article 76, From the draft text of Article 78, In the first sentence of Article 79, it is transferred to the private account, which is included in the first sentence of Article 79, and we propose that the second and third sentences be removed from the text of matter. Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0557par0508	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0509	Government?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0558par0510	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0511	I'm having it read. The Fiscal Management and Control Law No. 5018 is being tried to pierce the financial discipline brought in by this law before the ink is dry, and the ministry is inclined to make expenditures from accounts that have not been approved by the Parliament and have been abducted from the control of parliament. These practices, which have led to the breakdown of our financial system, have been carried out in accordance with the laws of the establishment, some KHKs and budget laws (especially the E-cetveline), in accordance with Article 161 of the Constitution. In our financial system, it will cause a new set of setbacks, removing fiscal discipline and control, trying to create out-of-control accounts, budgets and funds with names such as "private account," "special funds account" and "source management account." In particular, there are provisions similar to the laws imposed on the table (E) that should be carried out by law, public resources are excluded from the financial management and control system, the ministry or minister of the expenditures, supports, types of grants, borders, conditions, scopes, use, access to other public institutions, municipalities, private sector institutions and civil society authorities, and to regulate the issues and controls of the current public spending and control. This causes the budgetary rights of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be blocked, but also violates the principles of fiscal transparency and accountability. In the 2018-Year Centre Management Law Bill, it is understood that the provision of funds for several administrations, such as the Ministry of Prime Ministership, Foreign Ministry for Development, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of the European Union, the Ministry of Afet and the President of Emergency, is also intended to be transferred to private accounts in the central budget law (E) of the Constitution, which violates the rule of Article 161. The total start-up grant in the Central Management Budget of 2018 is 2 billion 769 million 252,000 euros, which is intended to be transferred to private accounts with provisions placed on the ruler (E) for this purpose. As it turns out, through private accounts, the TBM has been able to allocate resources where it goes, how it's spent, and how it's been spent, and a right to the budget, which is impossible to transfer. This leaves the distribution and use of the public resource transparent and predictable, out of control. Such practices also mean the creation of covered funds within a related ministry budget. The above clauses and some of the statements mentioned in the text of this article are against the Constitution's 2, 7, 87, 88, 89, 124, 160 and 161. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Altay, we have the names here, entered into the system by lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0559par0522	But isn't that the way it is, sir? We're starting negotiations on item five. You say, "You open the system at that moment, we go in like that."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0523	It was accidentally opened, so let's delete it, and then...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0559par0524	I want it to be no mistake, Mr. President, I have nothing else to worry about.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0553par0525	Okay, thank you. MADDE 5- (1) Payment to Cover Staff Expenses: If public administrations and budgetary funds under the general budget are not seen to be sufficient for the budgets of private budgetary administrations, the budget of the Finance Ministry will be opened to the current or new arrangements for the costs required by its relevant legislation, 12.01.31. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To make a transfer from the grant in the scheme of one, (2) Reserve grant: 12.01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From the six-securities, the public administrations within the general budget and the budgets of private budgetary administrations (01), (02), (03), (05) and (08) in the very urgent and mandatory conditions (06) and (07) in the economic codes that include economic codes, (3) The Fund for Acceleration of Investments: 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. Based on the grant in the three sectors, the implementation of the 2018 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decisions, the implementation of the 2018 Years Investment Programme, to step up investments in the primary sectors as needed, or to transfer them to the current or new settings of private budgetary administrations, according to the conditions that develop within the first sectors and lower sectors, and to the projects that need to be new to the programme, to increase their funding or funding. (4) Payment for Natural Disaster Expenses: 12.01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. The Finance Minister is in charge of transferring the funding, which is available or will be opened to all natural disaster costs of private budgetary and public administrations under the general budget, as long as it is associated with the investment-quality investment programme in terms of investment-quality costs. Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 5. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0560par0535	Mr. President, I have been promised by my group, the Nationalist Movement Party, on Article 5 of the budget bill of 2018. Reverend citizens, today and for about two weeks, we've been discussing how to spend or spend the taxes you've been paying. Everyone shares with the public the statistics and comments of these statistics in accordance with their own opinions. Of course, in this part, I'm not going to remind you again of the statistical changes that Mr. Erhan Ustah, our Deputy Group President, has captured, but I'm sure that economic environments, our citizens, and investors, in particular, have come to some conclusions in their own mind that the government has often gone to a method and method change to manipulate numbers. I hope these changes are in the Turkish nation's favor. I wish I could say, but as the ruling party, I wish you'd be aware that such policies create insecurity. Respected lawmakers, we've been discussing the budget by this time of night in a legislature study that citizens have used with representatives of a basic budget right that has been granted for hundreds of years. This is a fundamental element of democracy. It's only natural for us to keep an eye on you while your child spends his food money as a government. We've been digging through this budget because it's the right of an unfinished orphan. Where the government spends that boy's food, we try to control it one by one. That's what the citizen expects of us. My minimum paid brother, who walks miles to save 2.5 lira, should know how to spend his tax on milk for his child. Those of us who sit in these rows are responsible for combing through these expenses to the state-run state cars. At least that's how we, the National Movement Party, follow budget talks. We would want those who advise the citizens to save money, even take one step further, and want to force their individual pension funds to save on the citizens, to come face to face with a minimum-priced family and listen to them. In this Parliament, we must always act in unity and unity in the interests of the Turkish nation. See, what he says: "If you have any sense, be friendly with another mind and do your work by consulting. " No one who listens to the strawberry people of this country is wrong. Why is the government getting so taxed by a brother who's worked his ass off to fund under metal blocks in the industry? We have nothing left but our lives. When he says, believe me, he does not do this to slander you. The moment you realize this intimacy, you'll find that our citizens are the most sincere, loyal friends for you. That's exactly what governments need to know every semester. A man may not have voted for you, but to listen to him and to evaluate what he said is the government's primary duty. The best criticism comes from those who are not with you, but from those who are not with you, because it is often impossible for those who are with you to see your flaws. Isn't that why the Jihan state, the Sadrazams of the Ottoman Empire, even the Padişahs, walked amongst the people and carried the public's feeling to the state? Maybe that's why hundreds of years of justice and prosperity. Mr. Secretary, we know about the Deputy Minister. God, you have a very busy schedule, hundreds of papers waiting to be signed on your desks. Believe me, there's no telling how much time you're going to spend with citizens in the two hours you're going to take away from those jobs. Our citizens may not be able to use a technical term, but believe me, they're close enough to describe your missing policies in one sentence. We live in this world where we are equipped with the means of communication. In most places, including our villages, the Internet can be used, and we can watch news and economic programs. When our farmers in Antalya see the same tomato sold for 40 cents on the dollar and sold for $5.6 in a supermarket, all of our citizens feel the same way when they see the quality of life and resources of the rich. You know, the injustice of income distribution. The share of the economy, which is the richest 1% in Turkey, is 23.4% of the pie, while only 14.6% of the poorest share is 14.6%. Believe me, our citizens are very curious as to why their own efforts and production do not bring them prosperity. Look at the state of my higher education, which is expected to take our country forward. We see that instead of those who are really successful in ALES and YDS exams, the labor thieves have infiltrated their higher learning cells. From now on, the State of Emergency must be declared in training and teaching. We believe that the Turkish nation can benefit both our country and other nations with many scientific breakthroughs. Our country has taken thousands of scientists out of its embrace. The Republic of Turkey has trained its own children abroad while still struggling for existence, and has benefited from the knowledge and experience of these nationalist people during the development move. Now we see that there are doubts even on the tests and evaluations of our children sent to a foreign country. It's gonna be hard to get back from here, get our country back on track and meet scientific facts, but we have to. Look, there's a section in the Finance Ministry's 2017 Annual Economic Report. The top column of page 20 says that the service sector has about 70 per cent of the economy. The 70 per cent of our economy consists of the service sector. Well, in what capacity? We're not where we deserve in tourism. We don't have an international name-calling accounting, auditing, consulting firm. The descendants of a profession teaching European coffee now drink their coffee in foreign shops. Maybe that barista that makes coffee has five acres of land in the village of my brother or the clerk, but as far as the economy is concerned, it's not being produced in that land. Anyone who wants to take this as an international anti-investigation would be mistaken. We're not enemies of capital, but because we love our country, the place we're looking at is different than some. In the service sector, we have to engage in a major mobilization to increase our qualifications, but before that, to increase production. We should support production, not consumption. To do so, we must implement legislation that will encourage our citizens to be entrepreneurial. With quality training, we must build future generations and great Turkey. Really, the point we're going to care about first is education, but you're not going to get results right away in education. So, when you make your way into a country, our citizen can see it right away, you can get votes, you can win it, but in future generations, if you don't care about education, that's when we lose. So the most important thing we're going to do from today is education, education, and retraining. As I finish, I wish the Turkish nation strength, health, happiness and success in the new year. May my Lord give peace to the Turkish nation in the new year. I offer my love and respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0561par0551	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0562par0555	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018. I salute you all. Of course, at the same time, I salute our deputies, journalists and friends who should be here, but are now in prison. Mr. Secretary, I could actually talk about the 5th Amendment of this law, but as Mr. Home Secretary says, I'm not going to talk about the 5th Amendment.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0563par0558	Here comes the Minister, here he comes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0562par0559	Because about 20 per cent of Turkey's population, 16 million people, now live on the edge of starvation. Again, our population, 48 million people, which corresponds to 60 percent of our population, lives on the edge of poverty. There's nothing in this budget about them, but in this budget -- I mean, I worked on this -- when I actually read it, but you said it -- there's a security budget under the counterterrorism issue. There's a state of emergency and a national security budget. Every authoritarian administration has a budgetary understanding of an autocratic government that is sought to be permanentized by these concepts, and to drive them away from democracy. So I'm going to try to explain why you made this choice over these budget pencils. It's a political choice. So is it security, freedom, democracy, justice, autocratic government, law state, state of emergency? It's a political choice, and unfortunately, the majority of your government, the Justice and Development Party, took its choice for the July 15 coup attempt, not for democracy, freedom, justice, but for an extraordinaryly non-democratic position, and unfortunately, by declaring a state of emergency, it began to maintain its understanding of autocratic governance from July 15th. We see it very clearly, we see it from your preferences, and we see it from the budget preference, and you, as a Minister of Finance of this republic, have made it very clear here. The fight against terrorism, of course, may be part of the budget, but it can't be the budget itself, but you've clearly expressed that this budget is a security state budget, a national security state budget, and that represents a preference. In fact, there's a class preference behind this choice, and there's an industry choice. Let's see who's behind the industry you support behind your security policies. Either there are industrial groups associated with media bosses or there are industrial groups directly associated with the Justice and Development Party. You took advantage of that, and you used the funds of the budget from the poor, not from our citizens on the verge of starvation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0564par0562	We set a record for welfare, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0562par0563	But in no time in history, security policies, state of emergency policies have not yielded results, and neither will this. When you came to power, there was only an extraordinary state in Şırnak and Diyarbakır, which rose twelve days later, but now in 81 district of Turkey, there is an extraordinary state that has been going on for 15 months, and you continue all these policies, hoping for death. Here, look, Mr. Secretary, we've published here, and I'm showing it here, and these are our opposition enemies, the opposition of the coup attempt commission, but neither of them have been published because I'm afraid the government has hoped for this coup to make this extraordinary state permanent, and you continue with a government model that seeks to address the deaths, human rights violations, and which is co-existent by pressure. I'll tell you what you're doing. Mr. Erdogan and all the ministers here said: "Have you seen Fevzi? Did Fevzi hurt us more than you, and hurt us more than all of you. She's 14, she was taken like this. But when you say that, you're gonna have to look at yourself first. Why would you take care of yourself? I'll tell you. Look who it is. At the age of 15, Ertush in Hakkari. His arm was broken, his arm was on the air, his arm was broken, and his arm sounded on the screen. You didn't say anything about it. Who's this? What you don't know is Berkin Elvan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0565par0566	No, what are you saying?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0562par0567	Do you know who this is? Uður Kaymaz. These are children, killed in your power, killed in your power.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0566par0568	Is there Yasin Bör there, Yasin Bör there?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0567par0569	Is there a Yasin Bör there?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0562par0570	Who's this? Ceylan Forearm.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0568par0571	What do you mean?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0569par0572	Where's Yasin Bör? Who murdered him?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0570par0573	Why are you competing with death? Aren't they children?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0574	Well, I'll tell you more, I'll tell you more. On December 28, 2011, what did Mr. Erdoğan say, what did Mr. Erdogan say?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0572par0575	Do you have Yasin Bör, Yasin Bör; you crushed his head with stone, and burned it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0576	The perpetrators of those who died in roboski will not remain in the dark corridor of Ankara. How many years has it been? Six years went by. It'll be an anniversary in a week, anniversary. Didn't he say, Mr. Erdogan? Didn't he go and see the families? How many kids were there? Did you ever get a sentence out of you when you said Fevzi? You have no right to say that. Look, who's this, who's that, who's that? It's just a list of kids who died in 2015, and I read here one by one, and I read here one by one.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0573par0577	They're the PKK, the PKK.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0578	These are children, children, children, yours, yours...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0573par0579	PKK, don't talk like that, PKK.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0580	Look, who are they?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0574par0581	Go ask the mountain if you dare!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0575par0582	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0583	Look, Mama Taybet, look, Mama Taybet.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0576par0585	The government doesn't kill children.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0575par0586	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0587	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0575par0588	Congressmans, we're watching, we're listening, one minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0589	Look, you've got criminal records here, criminal records, I'm reading them. Seven days, seven days, the funeral of your mother Taybet remained on the ground, seven days.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0577par0590	Don't propaganda the PKK, beat them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0578par0591	Why do you object? Isn't that true?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0592	Look, master, if you listen, it will be good for you. Listen, master. Look, look at this. Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0577par0594	Master, speak!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0579par0595	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0596	This Mother Taybet stayed on the ground for seven days.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0579par0597	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0598	Your criminal record, look.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0580par0599	Aren't martyrs human? Tell me that! Tell me about the martyrs!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0600	Look, I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0580par0601	Say it, say it!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0602	Look who it is, look who it is. What did you create? Pregnant women, pregnant women.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0581par0603	Tell me about the Nejmudtin teacher!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0604	Look, pregnant women, I'm telling you, pregnant women.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0581par0605	Tell me about the martyrs!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0582par0606	Shame on you, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0607	There's a soldier in front of you, soldier, giving birth, okay, giving birth. Look at this. Who's this? Our 82-year-old paraplegic, 14 months in custody. They only got out after I shared. You know who?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0583par0609	You're lying, you're lying, you're lying! Shame, a lie!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0610	Lie about what? Ask him whether he is lying, whether he is not.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0583par0611	Shame, shame, shame, shame on the council's stand.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0612	Look, look at this 87-year-old, 87-year-old, 11 days...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0584par0613	Tell me about one martyr.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0614	...in custody, 11 days in solitary confinement, 14 days in prison during that period. Look, 87 years old, 87 years old.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0585par0615	Is there a photo of the martyrs' funerals there, Mr. Godkulu? What does the Republican People's Party say about this?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0616	I'll show you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0585par0617	I thought you said Nejmudtin was a teacher of Aybüke.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0618	Just two days ago, a 4-year-old... can you take care of a 4-year-old?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0586par0619	Where's teacher Aybüke?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0620	I'll tell you, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0587par0621	You didn't cheat well. Solomon made him noble.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0622	Look at them, first day out, first day out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0588par0623	Why don't you share Eren Nightingale there? Why don't you share Eren Nightingale?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0624	Two children are dear friends in Silopi. Look, your security policies...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0588par0625	Why don't you share the Nejmettin teacher, why don't you share the Aybüke teacher? Does it suit you or does it suit you? Why don't you share the Nejmudtin teacher?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0589par0626	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0571par0627	Not enough for the martyrs to come, not for the women to die, not for the children to die. That's why security policy doesn't work. Look, these are pictures of our martyrs.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0588par0629	Why don't you share the massacres of the PKK, and why don't you share them?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0590par0630	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0591par0631	Congressmans, please... Dear Cora...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0633	Why don't you take care of the martyrs, why? Why don't you take care of the martyrs, why? Look, these are pictures of our martyrs. Look, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0593par0634	How was Nejmudtin teacher slain, and Aybüke teacher slain?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0635	This is Najmettin teacher, murdered.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0593par0636	How was he slaughtered? Aren't you ashamed? Condemn, curse, condemn, condemn the PKK. Why don't you curse it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0637	If these policies are responding, where is Nejmettin teacher, I ask you, where is he? Look, this is the teacher, Senay teacher, Senay teacher.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0594par0639	Dear Cora...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0640	Where is it? If these policies were responding, why aren't they here, not among us?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0595par0641	Tell the teachers, tell the governors, tell the cops, tell the soldiers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0642	Dear friends, why isn't he among us? I'm the one who's paying for all this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0596par0643	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0644	I'm going to ask you here, and I'm going to ask you, and you're going to give me your answer. I'm telling you, not with safety policies. What do you do then? I'll tell you what you're doing to us. What you're doing to us is telling us all this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0597par0645	Condemn terror, terror! A reproach on the terrorists from here!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0596par0646	Have you ever been to a martyr's funeral? Go to a martyr's funeral for once!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0647	...the plaintiff Recep Tayyip Erdogan, suspect Sezgin Tanrıkulu, member of the party council. That's your sense of justice and politics. Look at the history of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0596par0648	Answer me, answer me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0649	...one president, one president, has not filed a personal complaint against a party's parliamentary statement. Our criticism may be severe, but we didn't swear, we didn't swear at anyone, we made political statements here, but Mr. President didn't respond politically, and he blamed the prosecutors and CHP members of the main opposition party's party.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0598par0650	He applied to the law, didn't break the law.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0599par0651	You won't insult me, you'll be a gentleman.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0652	This is an honorary document for us. But I'll tell you this -- as for Mr. President, it's a document he'll regret in the future.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0598par0654	He applied to the law, didn't break the law like you did.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0592par0655	I've got a lot more to talk about, and I've got your rap sheet here, and I'll tell you about it one time. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0600par0658	Solomon made what you did noble. You're stuck with it, you're stuck with it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0601par0659	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0602par0660	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0603par0661	You're uncomfortable with SIHA, you're dating, you're talking here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0604par0662	The SIHA are killing children, child.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0603par0663	What kid did he kill, what kid did he kill?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0604par0664	He's killing kids, kid. He's killing civilians, civilians.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0603par0665	He killed terrorists. He's killing PKK people.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0604par0666	Everybody knows that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0603par0667	Show me which kid he killed.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0604par0668	We have explained all things in detail.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0669	Congressmans, please, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Cora...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0606par0670	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0671	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0607par0672	We're not defending the Republican People's Party, we're defending the facts.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0673	Mr. Danış Beştaş, what just happened to you? Excuse me for a minute. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0607par0675	Why, can't something happen to us?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0608par0676	He's been screaming like that for an hour...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0677	But I mean, I'm going to listen to you, I'm going to listen to Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0607par0678	I mean, it's been screaming there for an hour, you don't interfere at all, you interfere when we say something.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0679	And I told them, I said, "Open the transcripts." I said, "Look."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0609par0680	Don't be so biased. Don't be so open.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0681	Don't be unfair, I've silenced everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0610par0682	You didn't shut me up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0609par0683	He's been screaming for an hour.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0684	For God's sake...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0610par0685	They're all screaming.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0605par0686	Open up and see how many AK PARTY MPs' last names I've mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0610par0688	We don't have to open it, we know it by heart.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0611par0689	Mr. President, we just watched Mr. Hatti's speech with regret. It's like this: Some of our orators come to the stand, express different views in their best possible way, but they talk about their problems, their problems, their problems, without giving them a chance to get nervous. But Mr. Sezgin, every time he comes in, he's replaced by shouting from the top screen in their language, showing pictures published on the websites of terrorist organizations on social media. They work like a representative of a big party, not Mustafa Kemal's party, but a marginal party. I wish he'd used a language that would embrace 80 million, stop terror, protect his police, his military, curse terror. Of course we're not happy about anyone's death. We've paid a great price for blood in this country, we've taken great steps, but I'd like to express that in this country, it will not serve peace, it will not serve our police, it will hurt our martyrs, it will hurt our veterans. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0612par0692	Thank you. People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0613par0694	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0614par0695	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0612par0696	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0615par0697	I didn't say anything again.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0614par0698	First, I have to say, from the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Godkulu, a ritual of the House is an act of abuse beyond teasing, bullying, and taunting. You pretended to warn very rarely, but you didn't give any serious warning. That is, apart from your appreciation, I refer him to our House and to the people's discretion. However, Mr. Turan, our member of our group, Sezgin Tanrıkulu, has stated that his language is the language of a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0615par0699	Stolen from his pages...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0614par0700	...by leaving himself and our group under suspicion. We demand word.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0616par0701	Is it because of the bullying?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0614par0702	Yes, without teasing...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0616par0703	Okay. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0614par0705	Your God-kulu will speak, he will answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0616par0706	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. Two minutes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0617par0708	He'll speak the language of terror again.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0618par0709	Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0616par0710	And please look at the transcripts and read them, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0618par0714	Mr. Bulent Turan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0619par0715	Yes, Mr. Godkulu?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0618par0716	Look, I don't want to pick on you, but your acquish isn't enough to talk about me, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0620par0718	Oh, that's no way to say it! What kind of language is that, Mayor?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0621par0719	Please don't insult each other.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0618par0720	Look, your acquish isn't enough!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0620par0721	Are we going to compete, Mr. Godkulu?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0622par0722	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0618par0723	Look, I defended all your human rights. There's no distinction here...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0623par0724	Congressmans, I don't hear you, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0622par0725	No need, Mr. President, we don't need to hear you say anything!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0624par0726	Sir, show some respect, he's a congressman!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0622par0727	How can I be respectful? He's the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0624par0728	Don't be so modest! What do you mean...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0625par0729	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0730	I've stated here that I work for the human rights of everyone without distinction. But you, look, you don't even tolerate me on this bench.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0627par0731	We even tolerate you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0732	You don't even tolerate me. Look, these are your criminal records, your criminal records.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0628par0733	Your government, your government!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0734	Tell me what Erdogan said about those who were killed on December 28, 2011, here. If I don't apologize to you, I'm an asshole. Come here and sing, come here! Is your heart enough to say what you're saying?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0629par0735	Our hearts are enough, don't worry!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0736	Is it enough?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0629par0737	You can't measure it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0738	Where are they now?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0629par0739	I told him that you...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0740	Where is Erdogan, where are you? Shame on you. Which one's the lie? The Home Secretary didn't go to Silopi?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0630par0741	That's what we said.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0742	Didn't he go to the home of two kids who were killed in an armored car? Which one of them is the lie? Is that a lie, Mother Taybet? Didn't his funeral stay on the ground for seven days? Shame, these are our citizens.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0630par0743	What about the Nejmudtin teacher?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0744	You know what people who listen to you say when you talk like that? This Parliament is not our Parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0630par0745	What about teacher Aybüke?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0746	Make up your minds, make up your minds.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0630par0748	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0631par0749	Make up your mind! You support the terrorists!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0626par0750	We're here, look, we're talking about the integrity of this country, the unity, the peace, we're talking about peace. One of them is not a lie, come and say, "This is a lie." Shame on you. That's all you talk about.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0632par0752	Who killed the ambulance doctor, the nurse, the paramedic?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0633par0753	Mr. Erdogan, please... Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0634par0755	Mr. President, your acquish is not enough. He used a very, very shallow, very simple language, and I will have to answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0633par0756	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0634par0759	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I repeat, there are only a few MPs who have gone against the scope of budget talks; they come in, they make a speech, they yell, they stir up this place, and then they leave. Forget the AK PARTY, it's not fair to CHP, it's unfair to you, it's unfair to all of us. That's not the right attitude. I especially appreciate what it's like to say peace, peace, peace, and speak in the language of terror. A full-blown, insulting expression, insulting expression is not enough for me, you're a terrorist, that's what you are... I'm defending peace. What kind of peace does this language serve? Where were you, where were you? What kind of peace do you call out here and show off and serve? If only we had seen you scream the same at Aybüke teacher, and at Najmudtin teacher, and at Eren Bülbül. But for some reason, you turn around and do the same thing. On the matter of Yasin Bör, they came, you know, the team, they invited them to the street, and they killed more than 50 Kurdish brothers, including Yasin Bör. You didn't open your mouth about it, but if there is, it's the same style. Mr. Sezgin, I'm not going to compete with the acquish, but I have a claim on the proprietary. You're older than I am, and I'm thirsty. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0764	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0636par0765	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0766	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0636par0767	Mr. Hanif has expressed that I speak the language of terror, so I would like to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0637par0768	He answered her, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0769	Wait a minute, I can't hear you guys. Would you repeat that, Mr. Godkulu? What did he say, what did he...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0771	That I speak the language of terror...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0639par0772	He answered her.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0773	You answered him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0774	No, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0775	And I made a covenant with you on account of it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0776	Mr. President, the next time you accuse me...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0635par0777	Mr. Godkulu, for this reason, Mr. Altay has asked for your word, and I have given you my word for bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0778	Mr. President, look, the next time he accuses me on the stand, he uses the photos from the terror site here...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0640par0779	That was before.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0641par0780	You're mixed up!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0781	... After that, Yasin Bör, Aybüke teacher, Najmettin accused me of not speaking about the teacher.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0782	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0783	So he picked on me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0784	Okay, I'm going to give you a statement from your position.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0785	No, sir, he picked on me; I'll speak from the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0786	I'll give you a minute to explain your position. Yasin Börünün and Najmudtin were told that you had made a statement for the teacher...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0787	I've already explained from here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0788	Please explain your position.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0638par0789	No, I made a statement here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0790	Mr. Godkulu, will you take your seat? One minute, I promise you, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0643par0792	Can a man who talks like that have a language of peace, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0793	I can't talk, Engin Altay will be angry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0644par0794	Now he's picking on me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0642par0795	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0645par0798	Mr. President, look, when I speak, because of my identity, I'm telling you, because of human rights, because of my Kurdish identity, every time I'm on this stand and I'm talking about human rights, you're on the side of the state, you're on the side of terrorism? I'm not on the side of government or terror, I'm on the side of human rights.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0644par0800	Yeah, make him talk! Just make him talk!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0645par0801	I'm against all human rights that this state and terror has violated. That's my acquish, everybody knows, but I know where I come from, I know how I come, but let's have the friends from the Justice and Development Party look at themselves. It's shameful, it's shameful, it's sinful. Their attitude does not serve integrity in Turkey and the dignity of this Parliament. Here, look, I said, show these children the sensitivity shown to the 14-year-old Palestinian here. Did you show it to him? These are our citizens, aren't they?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0646par0802	Show me Yasin Börür, Yasin Bör.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0647par0803	If you had protected Yasin, why didn't you? If you did, why didn't you? You covered him up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0645par0804	Didn't I say these are our citizens? When I took this stand, he saw red...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0648par0807	I'll pretend I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0645par0808	He saw red... I'll say he saw red... because of my identity.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0648par0809	Okay, thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0649par0811	Mr. President, I sincerely feel ashamed to be dealing with this style, but if this is about the funeral of the PKK-based terrorist he claims to be, then I'm not going to be involved.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit05spe0648par0813	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0648par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez will speak. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0650par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 5th Amendment on behalf of my group. Before I begin, I salute all political prisoners from here, especially our co-chairs and deputies, who are now being held hostage in prison. As last year, Congress began budget talks this year, unfortunately, with the shame of having its members arrested. Once again, it is wise to say that the political will that causes this is an enemy of democracy. Dear lawmakers, in Turkey, the State of Emergency is going through a process under martial law in the Kurdistan geography. In the process of almost bypassing the will of parliament, the country is governed by the regime of the KHKs with decrees pouring from the lips of one man. The regime of evils, which has caused thousands of workers to lose their jobs, to shut down hundreds of institutions, associations and media organs, and to be punished in some way by every opposition to power, has led to our daily lives. So, how did we end up like this? Today our country's chaotic situation in diplomatic, economic, political areas may be marked by the government as the end of the process known in public as the process of dissolution. With the plan to collapse, in full compliance with the calculations that would bring mercy to the impact plan, our hope to live together has been undermined, our economy has been hit, our reputation outside has been undermined, and ultimately the will of the House has been undermined. The blows have become fuel for the blows, the violence, the previous violence. As a matter of fact, when tanks entered the city, the blockade process of great violence led to a July 15th military coup attempt. In this country, where democratic politics has been narrowed down, military coup has been staged. However, when the government could return to democratic politics after this coup attempt, it transformed the country into an OHR regime, where violence has now become institutional. Those who know a little bit about political science literature know that institutionalized violence also means fascism. Dear lawmakers, there have been unprecedented atrocities in the curfews aimed at burning down Kurdish cities two years ago. The funeral of Taybet İnan, the mother of 11 children, was held in the middle of the street for a full week. Anyone who wanted to take the funeral was shot by snipers. More than 150 people were burned in the basements of Cizre along with Peoples' Assembly Co-Chair Mehmet Tunç and Asia Asşal. She hid in the freezer for days because she couldn't be buried at the funeral of Cemile Arakga, who was only 12 years old. Three civilian politicians, Seve Demir, Pakize Nayır and Fatma Haber, who conducted women's work and politics in the region, were brutally murdered. A severe blow was struck by the government during a period of days when people would not leave the house without electricity or water. It's been two years since the blockade. Kurdish geography is governed under martial law conditions. There's a power that's trying to run its own power through fear that it spreads to the public. The government can only exist by showing its military face. Armored vehicles patrolling the streets not only harass people, but almost every day he refers to the life of a Kurdish person. An old woman returning home from the market, little children sleeping in her home have become the target of these killing machines. Just a few days ago, Onur, a 4-year-old who played outside his house in Idil, was the victim of the car used by police officers. He's in the hospital and he's in the ICU. He didn't even know about it in the pool media. Why are they so relaxed? What's the business of the armored car downtown, dear friends? Or why are armored vehicles only killing Kurdish children? We've made several motions to investigate this. You refused. He's going through a lot without punishment. If you say there is no commission, the blood of these children is in the hands of this government. What are you aiming at? What is it you're trying to do? Why do you insist on unresolvedness? On this platform, my friends have repeatedly expressed the need to say again today that your exemplary attitude toward violence, the anxiety, the fear, and the mistrust that you spread into society, has ultimately led us to disaster. Your fear and insecurities will backfire. How do we know? In the 1990s, recent history showed us what the ruling forces had become. Today's apprentices are in the garbage of history. Dear MPs, all of Turkey has suffered and suffered in Şırnak, where I am a MP. It is clear that all this violence policy is aimed at a social crisis with its psychological, political, economic dimensions. You have destroyed 85 percent of Şırnak, and you have turned a city out of a city. You have made the poor Şırnak people even poorer. We're going to set up camp centers. You didn't leave people in what you call Şırnak. What did you get? You've struck the ultimate blow to the desire to live together. Even though the fighting in the cities ended, the bans continued for months. No damaged houses were destroyed, destroyed. So what happens now? Lands in all city centers are being tendered as land sites in the vicinity of the government; tenders given by the Toki hand in invitations are being used as an economic violence device on the people in Cleopatra, Cizre, Şırnak. Unless you give up this policy, you'll never win the Kurdish people? Dear friends, we now have a budget with nothing but women, poor workers, farmers. The government, which made the budget, thought it would convince him that this budget was the public budget, and that it would convince us that it was the public budget. There can't be a public budget where defense spending is skyrocketing. Before the budget talks, we warned you that a budget needed to be prepared that would satisfy all the fair and social communities, but you again raised the budget of the supporters and the darkness you wanted to create. Well, if it's not our budget, the public's budget, then whose budget is it? Let's all come together and see whose budget this budget is: the budget of your dark and dirty war, which has brought peace and democracy underfoot in order to remain in power, not by the people who produce and work. This budget is the budget of your dark mind, your male sovereign mind, which you want to drag her with your futuristic bullshit, not hers. This budget is not the equality and brotherhood of the peoples, but the budget of your SIHA and UAVs, which are throwing up death in the mountains of Hakkari and Şırnak without a target, slaughtering civilian citizens and also enriching co-friends, relatives. This is the budget of the contractors who built police stations and castles and imprisoned themselves in the house, not the peasant who was an animal in Bethüşşebap. This budget is not the budget of the free press, it's the budget of your media, which is ally and allotment. This budget is not the budget of progressive and democratic educators and their enlightened future, but the budget of your trade union-looking continents, who have taken it upon themselves to pledge to you, acting more king than king, and their dark mentality. This budget is the budget of your wolves dressed as your creation of an institution, which sees health as elements of the shop, the sick and the medics, not the health workers who are committed to the Hippocratic oath. This is the budget of children, not Cemile, Miray, Berkin, but your war equipment that killed children and their mothers. This budget is not the budget of Mother Taybet and her children, whose funeral was kept on the ground for a week, but the budget of your hatred, hatred and war that kept her there for a week. When every business machine works in Şırnak, when you start building a foundation for your strange housing, does my child's funeral come from here? In essence, this budget is not the public budget, but the palace and the budget of your supporters. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0651par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0026	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0651par0027	From the beginning of the orator talk to the end, Kurdish geography, people whose homes had been destroyed, blockades, civil massacres, he used a language completely out of the language of peace, completely out of the brotherhood of this nation. This language is a dangerous language, this language is a language of hatred, we condemn this language, we invite them to reconsider.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0029	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0030	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0654par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0032	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0035	Mr. President, you just closed the session just as I was standing up, so I resent you for that. Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0037	Mr. Altay, don't be offended. I really meant it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0038	But we stood up for the main opposition party.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0039	It happened at the same time, when your hand was raised, I closed it at the same time, so don't be offended.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0040	Well, maybe. We're not looking for intent. Yes, Mr. President. My minute's up here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0042	I'll give you one more minute, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0044	Now, Mr. President, I'm sorry to say that the names that Sezgin Godkulu was mentioned earlier -- I think Salih Cora was speaking in secret -- are all the names of Salih Cora. All the sons of this nation, the children of this country, the young people of this country. But the fact that Parliament exploits terrorist victims in one way or another, when Turkey has the opportunity to end the Kurdish problem and the terrorism issue that stems from it, I don't mean a party, not everyone is right to judge things on their own, on the basis of the problems that terrorism has created, on the basis of terrorism. And one more thing, one more warning, and I'm especially benefiting from making it to the ruling party about these discussions. Political parties may have pressured their opponents, used some of the sensitivities to turn them into favours.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0047	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0653par0048	But while political parties are doing this in order to raise these multicolored, multilingual, multicultural differences in this country to a political vote, it is the greatest harm that can be done to this country to at least divide people in their heads. We invite all parties to avoid it, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0652par0049	Thank you. Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0655par0051	Mr. President, I don't want to talk about bullying either, just for the record. Once, our speaker did not use a language of hatred, he shared the facts with the House. The crime here is that a funeral, a Taybet's funeral, is kept on the street for seven days, which is unacceptable, crime, torture, killing people. The crime here is torture, killing people, mass murder, burning people in basements. We're not very happy to say so.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0656par0053	We've been over this a hundred times, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0655par0054	We're just telling you what happened, and we're going on the record. So far, in any case Mr. İrmez said, there is not a single investigation against the perpetrators, there is not a single case; the investigations have been ruled untraceable. We have to go as Congress after this. I made a promise to put it on the record.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0657par0056	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0658par0057	They've been answered, Mr. President, before.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0657par0058	I've asked for the transcripts. I'm going to do a review on the transcripts. On behalf of him, Mr. Fevai Arslan, the Düzce MP. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0659par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 5 of the 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly and our valued citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Honourable lawmakers are the grants that can be used with this clause, which can be used if needed, to cover staff costs, to provide backup funds, to accelerate investments, to cover natural disasters. It gives Mr. Finance Minister the authority to transfer it to existing or newly-opened budgets. Speaking of natural disasters, I'd like to briefly talk to my two-quake constituency district, Düzce, about support and investments over the last 15 years. After the earthquake, our city, where its infrastructure was completely unusable and 60 per cent of its existing buildings were damaged, completed its infrastructure problems in transportation, education, health and urbanism. In the last 15 years, eight billion liras have been invested in our Düzce. We've spent over $3 billion on transportation. The energy costed 300 million euros in infrastructure for family and social policies, $140 million in forest and waterworks, and $650 million in infrastructure. My dream as a Düzceli was to make hot asphalt for our village roads and to restore Efteni Lake to be more functional in terms of tourism, environment and control of the flood. Thank God we have completed 500km of hot asphalt to our villages this year, and we have used 660,000 tons of asphalt in this asphalt in this asphalt, and the contract has been signed for the restoration of Lake Efteni. 693m liras of agricultural support have been provided, $44m in animal support. Eighteen million liras have been paid under support of rural development investments. With 31 projects, we've completed reforms in 12,000 acres. In 2009, the nut was approved to use field-based support, and in eight years, a total of 507 million liras was provided. We also established our Düzce University in 2006, where four institutes, 14 faculty, 2 university of higher education, 10 university of applied sciences, and 30,000 of our students were educated. We've solved the housing problems of higher education students through the Credit and Homes Association. We've spent $338 million on education, we've earned 1,825 classes, and with our ongoing projects, we're raising our number to 1,950. Our investments in health care are over $214 million. We finished with the university education and research hospital and the central state hospital. We've completed a public health lab, three health clinics, six family health centers, one dental care center, and five cities in which we've completed integrated hospitals. In our district of Akça al-Akça, there is still a plot of land and nationalization for 50-bed hospitals. I would also like to give you the good news of a grand project that will change the fate of Düzce. The master's plan for tourism is very important to our province. We're preparing an amazing project that will introduce nature, sports, culture and historical values to the world. We've employed about 10,000 people in the industrial field. We continue to work in the OSB in Silverova Correctional OSB and Chimlimli. Our techno-park project, which will help us move on to high-velocity goods, is finished, will be inaugurated. We're continuing our efforts to get the flat Plain watering systems underground. Dear lawmakers, for investments and services to our country and my electoral district, I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, our ministers, our ministers, the bureaucrats, and everyone who's done the work of our ministers, and ask that our budget of 2018 be a blessing to all of you. I wish you good night.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0660par0076	Thank you, Mr. lion. The last person to speak for him is Mr. Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0661par0080	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the 5th Amendment. First of all, I wish the ministry's budget to be a blessing. Of course, I've been keeping a close eye on the budget talks from day one. Government officials talk about macroeconomic sizes, microeconomic sizes and growth; they thank the President, the ministers, the Prime Minister, our government. The ruling MPs and opposition MPs live in the same cities. Opposition lawmakers are also on the stand, expressing shortcomings in their region, describing the missing services in their region. Of course, I think there's a shortage of both of them in the budget negotiations. So the ruling lawmakers should also be able to go out and say the services that are missing in their territory and be able to say the same from the bench, and the opposition MPs should be able to do the necessary warnings to the ministries for those who have not been thanked for what has been done. I'd like to thank you for the services performed in my own constituency. There must have been useful services in Mersin. Of course, we'll be sure to express our shortcomings. When we talk to citizens about these growths, micro, macro-economic growth, we don't see that they reflect too much on the citizens. The citizen asks us: for the past five years, Turkey has grown so much, the economy has grown so much, over $10,000 per person. Where's all this money? We've spent 25 billion dollars on agriculture, 25 billion on agriculture. Why are we getting grass from Georgia, meat from Serbia? Why are there so many teachers who can't be assigned? The official unemployment figures in Turkey appear to be 3 million, but only over 400,000 teachers, over 400,000 medics, over 50,000 agricultural engineers, food engineers and hundreds of thousands of different departments are unemployed. For him, I don't think there's anything very remarkable about this data. I don't think it's right for everyone in the government to act the same seriously... and to do politics here, through etnisity, through identities and through sects every day. In Turkey, the nationalist Movement Party is the only party that is rallying to live and live a thousand years of brotherhood. The more Kurdish the Kurds are, the more Turkish the Turks are, the more Turkish I am. The leader's name is Basbug Alparslan Turkesh. (Applause from MHP rows) So far, we haven't entered the polling account over them, and we've tried not to be part of the conflict. I would like to complete my statement with an incident in the late Alparslan Turkish era: The Deputy Prime Minister of the Nationalist Front, established before 1980. Turkey's most successful Customs and Tekel Minister Gün Sazak is also appointing the Minister of Customs. After the day Sazak is appointed, he begins a serious battle in customs and becomes a serious staff. Many people also switch positions, replace new ones, employ young people, and get really serious distances. One day, a respectable person comes to Basbug Alparslan Türkesh, asking him to extradite one officer he has appointed as Minister, an officer who has been transferred to another area. Which was in the early 1980s, which was shaking the shit out of the Basbug Alparslan Turkesh. Gün Sazak Başbüğ tells Türkesh: "If we follow your instructions, we will step back from the fight we have fought. " He says, "Do it your way, do it right." Later, of course, this is martyred by the terrorists, Hakk would be at his mercy, but still the name Gün Sazak in Turkey will go down in history as the minister of the history of the Republic of Turkey in customs and monopolys who has fought the greatest challenge of corruption, bribery and trafficking. The government wishes the authorities to act as they rule the state, as Chief Alparslan Türkesh, and Gün Sazak. I salute your grand delegation with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0662par0091	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. We're ten minutes out. In five minutes of that time, I'll take the questions, the other five minutes I'll promise the Minister to answer. Mr. Clumsy, we'll start with you, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0663par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Finance Minister, is that the national education budget was being discussed, and a ruling deputy showed an approach that hurt 400,000 of our teachers waiting to be appointed. The teacher waiting for the appointment has been exposed to social media operations. This digital attack was ari and provocative because of sincerity. And I say to the councilman, we know the sincerity of my colleagues, who seek rights, who are unemployed by your policies, who are struggling for their bread. They're right, you're wrong. It's not teachers who can't be appointed who can't hear teachers scream. Now, Minister, considering the pensioners and the teachers you exported, the request for 40,000 transfers is a reasonable request. You can assign 40,000 appointments to the Minister of National Education, no shortage of resources. Can you tell him? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0664par0099	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0665par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my first question is, how much foreign debt will our country pay this year? What's our total investment budget this year? That's my first question. My second question is... we're getting a lot of complaints from these logistics companies, especially from companies working abroad. Of course, these companies hire drivers, drivers go abroad. The drivers' crimes punish companies, which means the driver buys 100 to 200 packs of cigarettes from the outside and brings them to Turkey. Now, the crime is personal, the company doesn't have a chance to put a cop on each driver's head, and the fines go to companies, not drivers. Make sure you look into it, fight harder than smuggling... people getting busted for moonshine, no punishment, they're getting released. They're smuggling fuel, they're being released. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no way people who do their job that way can handle it. I expect you to take some serious precautions about this, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0666par0106	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0667par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are unjust practices on the social rights and salaries of law enforcement members of the General Command of the General Staff and Security Directorate staff. The main indicator of the retirement of members of the General Staff of the Gendarme Command 926 is 3600, while law enforcement personnel are subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657, and the main extension of retirement is 2,200. Will you be working with our police personnel to remove that distinction? Also, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to convey the very important demands of those who were injured during the fight against terrorism and were not considered veterans. We often bring up the General Assembly: Despite their injuries in the conflicts, they are not honored to be named as veterans because of the conditions in the health code. Especially Mr. Secretary, for our July 15th veterans...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0668par0111	Mr. Biceter...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0669par0112	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance: According to a decision issued in today's Official Gazette, the Ministry of Finance has banned the Rotary Dining Trade Corporation from all tenders. Such a ban has been issued in today's official newspaper. In the 10th month of 2016, food served by Rotary Catering at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance staff was poisoned and the samples produced salmonella bacteria. This is the same company that produced food poisoning in the military troops in June, and it's the same salmonella bacteria. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary two questions: [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I ask the question, Mr. President, may I finish?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0670par0116	Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0671par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Minister of Sports: Van doesn't have a big city stadium, you know, he's already promised. I wonder where his work is. He's not here right now. My second question: Amedspor is being attacked by racist and segregation at his away routes, are they considering taking precautions? Or will sports clubs and members who have committed these attacks, who have committed discrimination, take any action or action against their audience? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0672par0121	Mr. Botan, did you ask the Minister of Youth and Sports?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0671par0122	Yes, to the Minister of Youth and Sports...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0672par0123	But he's out of budget, so now we're talking to the Treasury Department. His budget is over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0671par0124	He was just sitting there, but...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0672par0125	Mr. Yurdakul? No. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0673par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, we've been very sensitive at the training point for 15 years as EC PARTY governments. In every budget, especially in education, we give the highest share of the budget. For education investments, for the betterment of physical environments, for the greater use of technology in education and for increased accessibility in education, we also put very important and vital projects into existence at this time. In that sense, one of the important things is teachers. Compared to 2002, we have made great progress in this period in the number of students per teacher or students per classroom. In the last 15 years, we have doubled the number of teachers to almost 2, and we are here every year as we do the budget work, and as with all the ministries, we are working with our Ministry of National Education on the number of teachers each year. From that point of view, there's no way to talk about a resource problem in any way. It's just that we have an effort here every year to meet the staff needs of all public institutions within planning, so let me share it with you in particular. Mr. Simsek, I'm telling you the financial programme data announced by the Treasury Undersecretary in 2017: 40.6 billion dollars will be paid as foreign debt service, and 41.5 billion dollars is predicted as foreign debt service in the year 2018. By the end of the year in 2017, I believe there will be an investment spending of around 77 billion dollars. If I'm wrong, if my friends give me the numbers, I'll fix it. Yeah, we're going to be using a 78 billion-dollar fund to invest in the central management budget. And let me look into the logistics, so it's not something I know about. I'll contact our Minister of Customs and Trade and let him know. Mr. Özdemir, of course, the issue of additional indicators in public is a very complicated matter. Due to changes in different titles, different institutions, and in -- time -- different times -- the additional indicator system, the compensation system, has really become inextricable. From time to time, we've seen that when the system is considered whole and we make a collective arrangement instead of a collective arrangement, it's like we've actually fixed some places, but this time there's trouble elsewhere. In that respect, the Ministry of Labor and I will make arrangements in the government office system that will actually please our employees and, especially, allow them to rise up based on career and integrity and to express themselves in more working environments. I'd like to share with you that we have a general study for him, not one institution at a time. What you said about the veterans sounds like a family department matter to me. Friends have received your note, we're going to discuss those matters with the Minister of the Family. Mr. Bicer, in the matter of banning this tender... right, the healing information your friends gave me at the first moment... that we stopped the service presentation... after the incident you mentioned about this firm... but in the process of the tender ban, I understand that, at some point, it was decided to stop the trial. Since this phase of the judiciary has been overcome, because it has passed, after the situation in our favor at that judicial decision point -- I understand you've followed it -- we've already published the restraining order.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0674par0134	Mr. Secretary, I haven't been able to give you my question yet, since it's not enough time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0673par0135	No, if you give it to me in writing, I'll be the next...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0675par0136	Mr. Biçer, please don't interfere. The Minister is responding right now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0674par0137	But I didn't ask the question.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0675par0138	You'll enter the next item, I told you, here, I've explained, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0676par0139	Right. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0677par0141	I get it, so I didn't ask the question. You answered, but I couldn't ask the question.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0678par0142	Congressmans, talks on Article 5 have been completed. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Transfer, add, reset and abort operations MADDE 6- (1) a) In order to effectively and efficiently use the funds given by this Law, the budgets of public administration (02), (03), (05), (06), (07) and (09) will be paid in the budget between the public budgets, or the budgets of the budgets in the general budget, in order to ensure that other public administrations will be used to meet the need for funding of other public administrations over the year, or in order to ensure that the grants will be used in priority services, or in the budgets of the budgets in the budgets under the general budget, or in the budgets of the budgets of the budget (06), (05), (06), (07) and (2009). B) As a result of the restructuring of public administrations, I would like to make arrangements for any budget and accounting transactions that may be considered necessary for the implementation of budget laws and the preparation of final accounts, The Minister of Finance is in charge. (2) The public administration, which will provide services from public administrations under the general budget, is authorized to transfer funds regardless of the budget of the administration that will run the service during the year, regardless of the functional classification distinction. (3) Public administrations under the general budget are authorized to transfer their funds to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation budget as part of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, dated 29/6/2011 and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation, under the Law on the Institutions and Missions of the Environment and Urbanism. (4) The National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the Brigadier General Staff, the Security Directorate and Coast Guard Command are the institutions concerned with transferring the grant between the functions, if a function of supply and supply services, which should be run from one centre, should be conducted by another function. (5) The public administration is authorized by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to include the budgets of the administration and institutions in the current or new regulations, which exceed the net financing amount mentioned in the table marked (F) with revenues on the estimate specified in special budgets and regulatory institutions (B). It is used in 2017 to finance the costs of special budgetary administrations for "06-Sermal Expenses" and "07-Serms Transfers" and "07-Edentiary Transfers" to finance the budgets of public administrations in general budgets, in accordance with the implementation of the 2018-Year Program, Coordination and Tracking Decision, to meet the need for payment of existing or new projects. (6) Source transfers between public administrations under the general budget are made by transfer of funds. Other resource transfers between administrations and institutions under the central management budget are carried out through due process. The sums collected in response to these transactions come to a table marked (B) by the relevant public administration, while on the other hand (A) are registered to the tablets marked. (7) Under the economic code "3.1.1.1." 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments (except for the structures involved in the function) (except for the transactions of goods and services and capital costs). Parts of the funds that are not spent within the year to ensure the continuity of the service are earmarked by budgets for the following year's budget to save no more than 30 per cent of the amount of funds assigned to these structures. B) The second joke of Article 21 of Tourism Instigation Law, dated 12/3/1982, is 21.01.36 of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. 00 and 21.01.36. Parts of the grants, which were not used to promote the economic code (03) under the 63 institutional code, were used to save credits for the same arrangements in the following year's budget, C) 40.08 of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency budget. 33. 00-01. 4. 1. In order to save parts that are not spent on the budget of 00-2-07.1, the same budget for the following year, ) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry budget 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 02-1-07. 1, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 04-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 06-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 07-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 08-1-05. 4 and 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 09-1-05. Parts of the funds that are not spent on the four structures will be recorded in the same arrangements of the next year's budget, D) 7.82 of the Treasury Undersecretary's budget. 32. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-07. 2, 07.82. 32. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-05. 6 and 07.82. 32. 00-01. 2. 1. 00-1-08. Parts of the grants that were not spent on the two structures are to record a creditable grant to the same arrangements of the next year's budget. E) Police Headquarters budget "03.1.1. 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments to register non-expenses from investment grants under the function "to transfer funds to the same budget in the following year's budget, f) The amount collected to save private income according to its relevant legislation, shall be used by the budget budget (B) in order to use the budget's budget for the purposes set out in these legislation, to save revenues on the marked ruler (B) and to transfer funds that are not spent within the year, including those who have taken over (2017) into the budget, to set down procedures and funds on the following year's budget. The Minister of Finance is in charge. Mr Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 6. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0679par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the 6th article, titled the 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly at this hour, watching over us on television. Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak, I'd like to express a few words about Jerusalem, the first of the Muslims' qiblahs, the memory of the miracle of mirac. The morbid and adventurous rule of the United States of America recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and signed an irresponsible, scandalous decision. How can the President of the United States attempt to take advantage of the balances of the Middle East, or even of the world? It is impossible for him to recognize Jerusalem as the capital by heart, conscience, and history. The capital of Mr. State Garden Bey's capital of Palestine, East Jerusalem, should be recognised with an independent and sovereign state structure, and it must be declared that relations between 57 Islamic countries must be strengthened, that all Islamic countries must act against the United States and against Israel. At the summit, led by Turkey and summoned by Mr. President, the United States and the Israeli plot of the United States have been decrypted in all directions, taking Jerusalem under the chassis and taking it into action. This development is very promising and satisfying. However, we condemn the decision made by the United Nations Security Council to be vetoed by the United States, a permanent member of 15 members. We hope that all of the Islamic countries gathered in Istanbul and other countries in our President's presidency, together, will veto this decision when it comes to the agenda of the United Nations General Assembly. They show that the world is greater than one fifth. Mr. President, the budget, the legislature, is a document that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has authorized to transfer funds to the public and distribute these resources over the next year. The budget is also one of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's political control tools over the government. The budget also means raising the public's welfare share of government investments for the country's administration, creating financial value and sharing in issues such as security, education, health care. Precious lawmakers have been authorized to transfer funds for the 2018 budget effectively and efficiently through the budgets of public administrations and to make arrangements for any budget laws that may be necessary for the implementation of budget laws and the preparation of certain accounts as a result of the restructuring of public administrations. As a result of the budget, the budgets for public investments in the provinces are also set. However, I'm afraid we don't see any fair and fair work in this matter. One of the best examples of this is that Hatay, my constituency district, is not being compensated for its significant contributions to the country's economy, despite its tax revenues, production activities, its added value, its employment opportunities, and its population. Ministry budgets for investment in Hatay are also relatively small. When we compare public investments made to Hatay, according to some cities -- and I don't want to give up their names, I also wish to increase public investments in our other provinces -- for example, it is not possible to accept an investment in Hatay, which was 1 million,100,000 people in 2017, and also exported to our country in the year of 2017 -- at $866 million in an exporting period of $1,55,000. Dear lawmakers have upset us as Hatayians that since November 2015, there has been no progress in the agenda of parliament and in the budget talks. For example, despite the fact that my electoral district, Hatay, has a 51 per cent share of irrigable land assets in total farmland, and the Reyhanese Dam Project, which began in 1995, was known to increase further, the construction of the Reyhanlı Dam has not been completed for 22 years, and it seems impossible for it to be completed by limited budgetary resources. Another example of the Menselet Watering Project is that it is not possible for this project to be completed in 2017 for the amount of $845m project for the Yakuköpru Dam and the Watering Job. For years, 462,960 acres of land have been waiting for water in the Amik Plain. This year will be watered, June will come, September will come, especially during the fifteen years of elections, waiting for the plain water you call it. If the plains meet water, I believe it will be possible to obtain the 2nd product, even the 3rd product in the Amik Plain, and thus perhaps the Hatay farmer will have a bit of a smile on his face. As in our country, one of the most important reasons to prevent agricultural production in my constituency, Hatay, is the height of input costs. In particular, the high prices in agricultural inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, seedling, seedlings, bait, medicine, electricity prevent the manufacturer from planting. In 2002, the agricultural sector's share in GDP was 12 per cent, while in 2017 it declined until 6.1. In 2002, the GDP of agricultural support of 6.6 per thousand will be reduced to 4.9 per thousand in 2018. Agricultural support is not enforced by the Agricultural Law, which says that the GDP cannot be less than 1 per cent of the GDP. In 2018, 14.8 billion dollars in agricultural support was envisioned, but the law is far behind 34 billion liras, which are 1 per cent of the national income that should be given to the farmer. On the other hand, an analysis of the impacts on support must be done. This has a negative effect on the incentive of agricultural production. Another problem is farmer loans. The farmers' debt, which was only $530 million in 2002, is 80.7 billion as of October 2017, according to Banking Editing and Control Agency data. The farmer is trying to get a loan from the bank to the bank, unfortunately. The Amik Plains are mortgaged. Our farmer's debts must be taken advantage of similar opportunities for delaying and restructuring. Dear lawmakers, unemployment has become a chronic problem in our country. In particular, young unemployment is at a high rate, even according to official data. Hatay's unemployment is much higher than official data and is 20 per cent higher. The fact that the Syrians have also worked off the books increases that rate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll just give me one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0680par0178	Please complete, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0679par0179	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers in 2018 have failed to provide employment for millions of unemployed young people, workers, civil servants and pensioners, farmers, tradesmen, small and fixed incomes, not foreseeing an additional increase in their well-being, does not contain realistic policies that will pave the way for investors, and will eventually put Turkey far behind its goal to become a global power. Our future budgets, hopefully, have provided a society of social security, equal opportunities and technological supports in education, a nation of national state, strong power, in harmony with its neighbours, and a nation of leaders, whose economy draws the economic geography of the world, and I respectfully salute a peaceful, peaceful, prosperous Turkish nation that each member is looking at with confidence, and wish the budget, our country and our nation, the Gazi Assembly, and the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0680par0181	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0185	Mr. President, I have sworn on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 6 of the Central Budget Law Bill 2018. Articles in the budget laws and text in the supplemental frameworks are as important as other numerical budgetary powers. In particular, these initiatives are the result of a search for a system that is far more flexible, far from transparency, open to individual decisions, subjective institution performance indicators and consequences, rather than necessity, as opposed to adding new provisions to budget law texts or supplements each year on the basis of the idea of facilitation and need in which a will has begun to reduce the budget's laws and texts in recent years. It is open to debate whether or not the grants are missing or over-released in every way. Predictance is vital to insight, grant sincerity and transparency. Therefore, trying to legalise every request for the transfer of funds as a clause and insisting on it every year will undermine the existing system, increase incompatibility and incompatibility in the higher legal forecasts that regulate the budget, and reduce the use of public resources from transparency. Applying the initial grant programme with discipline is checking whether the funds are being used effectively. In this context, the picture appears in Article 6 of the 2018-Year Central Management Budget Bill (U.S.) under the article "Accrement, addition, reverberation and cancellations": This article provides the basis for widespread and comprehensive transfers and shows weaknesses in the appropriation performance. It also causes major differences between initial and end-of-the-year grants, and causes the habit of spending over funds to become radical. Therefore, the number (1) joke of the 6th article in particular (a) bendi and (2) must be questioned in many ways. As a matter of fact, our party's opposition to the Plan and Budget Commission report has been presented in a very detailed way, and we have identified the violations of the jokes mentioned within the scope of Article 5018 and the Constitution to mark the date of the budget, and we have explained their concerns in order to correct these problematic arrangements that have come to you. The Finance Ministry gives the Finance Minister the authority to transfer the budget to a backup grant arrangement. Subsequent Article 19 of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018, titled the discussion of the Central Government budget bill, Article 20 (a) titled the use of the contracts, Article 70 ▪ Article 21 (result transfers) and Article 6 (a provision of the budget bill titled "Responsibility money") are clearly incompatible with the Article No.6 (a provision of the Article No.5) and Article 580 (a.k.a.g. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) The Constitution has not been authorized to change the budget with a decree on the legislation of the Council of Ministers, even with the 161th article of our Constitution and administrative savings, while the Ministry of Finance has been given this authority in violation of Article 163 (a) of our Constitution. (CHEERING) I must say that we have done our duty to warn you about this. Now, let's get to something else. Do millions of people have eyes and ears here? Is there anything in this budget that could lead to my house? What do you get out of it? Dear friends, we should always say that we should be the ones who offer solutions to the political problem. What's the problem, how to solve it, where to solve it. The problem needs to be solved here. The public sees the Assembly as the solution to their ordeal. Unfortunately, however, this House is unable to carry out its mission. Why? Because it's not all of it, but many of our fellow Regents can't make up their minds of their own free will, they don't decide. To illustrate, many AKP MPs contradict what they say in the press here. For example, you admit the problem. You're saying: Yes, there is such a problem. This country has this problem. But come on, let's solve this problem, we'll set up a commission, we'll make a law. Look, what you're saying, no, no, no, let's remind you of what you've said: this opposition, this CHP, this CHP, it says no to everything. No, friends, it's not us saying no, it's you. Just to remind the public, let's see what power says no: our law proposal for pensioners has been rejected by the AKP. We said that the pensioners should receive double bonuses on two holidays. Our law proposal was rejected by the AKP. The proposal to investigate business accidents in Soma mines has been rejected by the AKP. December 17th-25th, we've asked for a coup. We've submitted a motion to investigate, rejected by the AKP. The motion to investigate women's murders has been rejected by the AKP. The children's proposal for sexual abuse was rejected by the AKP again, but they themselves brought something, to be married to the victim's rapist who was sexually abused. The AKP said, "The AKP people have been accepted by the AKP." (Applause from CHP rows) We've submitted a motion to investigate the food poisoning of the soldiers in Manisa. We said, "Let's investigate it." The AKP rejected it. We offered the law for disabled citizens to use electricity and natural gas on discount, which was rejected by the AKP. We offered the law so that the missing illegal electricity price wouldn't be taken from the citizen, which was rejected by the AKP. We offered the farmer the law so that we could pay tax cuts while buying diesel; it was rejected by you, by the AKP. Let's not take taxes from the Asgarial fee. We offered the law; it was rejected by the AKP, by you. Again, we filed a motion to investigate corruption and corruption in zoning jobs, which was rejected by the AKP. And finally, because it's up to date, we've submitted a motion to study offshore, which countries have it; it's rejected by the AKP. And the Man Island documents that have been on the agenda lately, you said that these documents on the fake, we've submitted a research motion, let's look together and find out if they're fake or not. We said, "Let's find out if they're false." We said, "It's rejected by the AKP." This is why we say no to the budget of the AKP government, which is constantly saying no to our research proposals, our law proposals. This budget is not the budget of the worker; this is not the budget of the villager; this is not the budget of the budget, this is not the budget of the pensioner; this is not the budget of the student; this is not the budget of the student; this is the budget of the budget importer, this budget is the budget of the contractors, this budget is the budget of those who are eating the state. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know, you say: "This opposition says no to everything." But the facts are clear: Here you are, saying no to the suggestions we bring. The AKP's power, in its uncompromising stance, is ruled by one person. Our country is experiencing fascism under the regime of the one man whose freedoms have been put on the shelf because of the state of emergency and the rule of law.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0682par0196	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0197	We saw the last example in subcontractor law yesterday. You're going to try to pass the subcontractor's law on grounds of the council's busy work, without bringing it to the House.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0683par0198	To make it quick.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0199	You said you'd hire 900,000 people in total, but right now, no one knows what's going to happen. That's exactly what I mean when I say one man's regime.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0683par0200	You'll see, it'll be good. Everything's gonna be fine.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0201	The future of 900,000 people is between one person's two lips. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] You've ruined the nation's economy. You're fooling a citizen because we've grown 11 percent. If we're grown up, where's the money? If he's grown up, I'm thinking 11 percent of the people who are with you have grown up. Our internal and external debt is increasing exponentially every day.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0684par0204	How many choices did you lose?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0205	We're in the first five out of 185 countries on the Cari trade deficit.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0685par0206	Oh, boy!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0207	The consumers' bank loans were based on 488 billion TL. The number of citizens in debt is 30 million, 30 million.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0685par0209	Ask the president for an extension, an extension.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0210	May I have a moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0686par0211	It does, it does.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0687par0212	Okay, I'll give you an extra minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0681par0213	The number of citizens in debt is close to 30 million. You raise everything from gas to motor, electricity to natural gas, you attach it to automatics. You're not doing it, it's doing it by itself! Would you mind hooking him up to a pensioner, a farmer, a civil servant while you give him a raise? Would it be okay if he was an automatic? Dear friends, for the minimum wage of $1.404 per month, a minimum wage Commission will soon meet and make a decision. While this commission is doing these studies, I hope it considers the limit of hunger, and I hope that when I visit my constituency districts, the villager, the farmer, the feeder will become a drug to its miserable state, and people will be crying blood. When you came to power, a paying farmer had to sell 3 kilos of wheat to buy 1 litre of diesel, now he has to sell 5 kilos of wheat, so he can only buy 1 litre of diesel, and that's the way it is. Look at what you've done with the farmer, you've even made hay imported. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0688par0217	Thank you, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0689par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0688par0219	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0689par0220	Mr. President, Mr. Tacettin has claimed that the country's administration is between one person's two lips.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0690par0221	Where's the call for a sitrep?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0688par0222	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0689par0223	Mr. President, the president of a party that won 13 elections in 15 years, received 50 per cent of the vote, a President who received 52 per cent of the vote, a person who took all of his decisions from the institution within the constitutional regime.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0688par0224	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0691par0228	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're talking about the budget process in Parliament in nine days, but the speakers who are speaking on behalf of the government are drawing a picture as if we don't live in Turkey, we live in the land of Alice in Wonderland. We, who have also expressed that this painting is not the case, often encounter an intervention from this platform, and immediately the voices from your desks start to rise, and you're trying to tell me that the painting is not really like this. I mean, it's not like thousands of people in this country haven't been declared State of Emergency, not now in prisons, and thousands of people haven't been sentenced to hunger overnight under the law, and it's like this country has no agenda for corruption, and we're perfect, budget disputes are going great. But we know very well that this is not perfect; we have often tried to express what the public is really going through, what the public's real agenda is. And we will continue to remind you of that reality every time we take this stand. Again, during the budget talks, I mean, nine days, we've obviously listened a lot. We know who this budget is attracted to, we know how it's squandered, but what did you say against it: We don't save on our reputation. We know you don't save on your reputation, but at least save on your tyranny and your tyranny, so that the rest of the people can be happy and happy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0692par0231	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0691par0232	Dear friends, yesterday in Pain, a bureaucrat marked the people of Pain one by one. How did this tag thing get out? It's in the press, so maybe you followed it with you. He's plugged in close to 600 people, but he's not doing it on his computer, so he forgets to turn it off when he's e-mailing it from another computer, and so it's reflected in the press, and that's how we found out. Who's he tagging? Painful tradesmen, politicians, workers... and you know what he says in front of his tag sheet? This HDP (HDP) is close to this HDP (HDP) and there is a possibility that it will vote for HDP (HDP). But remember, once again, we would like to remind you not to think that the people who do this are doing this because of their loyalty to you, or that people are doing it out of the love of their country. So this tipping, this tagger, has actually turned this into a political ranta. So either he had a personal matter to cover it up, or as soon as he's got a pen in his hand for everyone on his right and on his left to cover it up, he's going to turn himself in. And sometimes we'd like to remind you that the whole situation itself has actually emerged as the decay of society. It's really turning into a political ranta. So, not because people are guilty, but because crime was invented that way, people are in prisons today and so you're actually inventing crime in some sense. But remember, as all fascist examples show, the name of this situation is political evil, and you are trying to include this political evil. So the Painful Shopkeeper you've been plugging, the Painful Grocery Store, has not given up on being a HDP person, he will not give up. Whether you take hostages in prisons or take prisoners or tag them, we will continue this struggle. In the streets, in Parliament, or in the courtrooms, we will defend these values that the HDP has, no matter what the cost, because we know that what is being defended here is not the HDP, but the community itself. We will continue to defend society, the values of society. And once again, I would like to remind you that if you had one thousandth of the persecution against HDP, there would not have been a party called AKP. Make sure of that, because, look, all these genocide operations, these pressure policies, these deterrent policies, the HDP stands tall. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because what holds the HDP together is faith in freedom, peace, justice; otherwise it is not the unity of interests that holds the HDP together. And for him, you won't get any results with all this pressure. Stop tagging people for nothing. Again, when we speak of these things on this bench, which is illegal, every time you get a say, you say, you accuse us of doing identity politics. So you really are the ones who make these policies, so with your policies, you remind the people every day, the HDP people, the Kurds, the Kurds, that they are Kurds; you remind the HDP people that they are HDP. So just because we're here to express it doesn't mean we're doing identity politics. In fact, your policies force us to expose this policy at this point. So, obviously, there was a period of impossibility to be a Kurdish in Turkey, and today the obligation to be a Kurdish has been revealed because of your policy, so we're going to continue to talk about it here. Look, I just want to give you an example or two: Kemal Korkur was murdered in Diyarbakır. Two days ago, he had a trial -- I don't know, you've never heard -- where Kemal was murdered, his son had to stroke the ground instead. What happened to the cop who shot Kemal? You're laughing, I don't think there's anything to laugh about, I think it's embarrassing, it's sad, it's guilty.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0693par0237	We're laughing about something else, but don't get me wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0691par0238	He's on trial without arrest. That photo was raided by a journalist who took a picture that could be a headline and make them feel guilty. Why? Because he took the picture. Again, Nedim Türfent was sentenced to seven years in prison for exposing civilian executions in a similar situation. Again, Zahra Doğan, who exhibits a similar example of journalism, is arrested today in prison. Once again, I salute all journalists who express the truth in themselves, who fight for the truth. Again, friends, one example -- these armoured vehicles have been expressed here many times, and I want to say once again -- nine of them were killed by children, about 30. These nine children were slaughtered for playing in the street, for crossing the street, for sleeping in your house. Now we're gonna call these accidents? Of course, we know it wasn't an accident, and you know it very well. This punishment policy is the reason for it. Because the man who drives that Panzer knows that he will not be held accountable for any of his actions, and for him, he is doing all of this with such ease. When you stand on the stand, you explain how great power you are, how powerful you are, but you are not responsible for any of the problems in the country. That's how it works, and we didn't figure it out. So because the dollar goes up, the price of the gold goes up. It's not because of the bad economy, it's actually because of the impacts on global markets. The police are taking one into custody, and we know that you can't go from one chair to another chair without permission, but for someone in custody, he jumped out of the window, committed suicide. It's not your responsibility, and you expect us to believe it. Frankly, in your day, naming what happened became a bigger crime than doing it. I mean, it's not a crime for Roboskis to die, but when we say there was a Roboski massacre here, it's a crime. And we can say that, frankly, as a great success to you. You're always talking about stability. Yeah, there's stability. If you ask what is the stability of what, it is the stability of your persecution, your determination and stability to continue this persecution. I have a few more things to say, but since I don't have time, I'd like to talk about Pain. I know, Painfuls follow up on budget talks late. The previous speaker said, "Maybe something will happen to us." Really, Painfuls are looking forward to these budgets. I think I have one minute left, but it's hard to express in a minute. We've already expressed the problems of Ağrı....in the Parliament's press room. Really, Pain has been infested, but it's not taking advantage of anything that has the qualities of being a minister, and it's been going on for 15 years. From the bottom of it, when a service to Ağar could be done to the city, like the lottery; here comes a deputy from AKP, who says: "This month it will be done." After another study, when they come to the convention or the mass opening -- but we don't know what they opened -- they say: "No, not this month, but the next month. There is one government hospital, which has not been finished for six years. I asked the Minister himself in the Plan and Budget talks: "When will this state hospital end?," he said to me: "It will end in January." What happened next? On January 3rd, AKP's district congress was held, where the President said, "O Painful People, I give you good news that your hospital will be opened in March." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0694par0245	Complete it, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0695par0246	What a shame! Why are you fooling the Painfuls?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0696par0247	We didn't take it seriously.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0697par0248	By God, you'd better take this seriously, because now you don't take the Painful seriously; you don't take the public's opinion seriously.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0696par0249	We open in March.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0697par0250	Anyway, I'm not gonna waste my time answering you. Then the President said, "O Painful Ones, the good news is for you." What happened? The hospital, which has not been finished for six years, will end in March. You know, you get a little embarrassed, bored, you make a self-criticism, you say, "Why couldn't I do it?" You brag about finishing bridges in two months? Why hasn't this Pain State Hospital been over for six years?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0698par0252	Whatever the chief says.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0697par0253	Yes, you may have rented your mind, but Pain continues to question the public, and it will continue. But, for one thing, we would like to remind you that the pains no longer accept this, they are tired of being a promise city. Especially the DBP municipality, with our power, with our opposition, they know exactly what they're going to accomplish.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0698par0255	How was the university in pain?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0697par0256	That's why they've condemned both your trustee policies and your approaches to DBP municipalities in your congress, and you know very well how they respond. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0699par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0700par0260	We're going to cast with the KHK. We didn't take it seriously.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0701par0262	I swear, I didn't take you seriously either.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0702par0263	On behalf of himself, Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik will speak. Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0703par0266	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0704par0267	Oh, I forgot something very important. Please, I promise...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0705par0268	Just give me one more minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0704par0269	Really, look, this is about the tag, wait a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0706par0270	But he came to the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0704par0271	No, but really...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0706par0272	Mr. Stonedemir, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0707par0273	...on the 6th article of the Central Management Budget Act of 2018, I pledge on behalf of myself, and salute your grand delegation. The transfer, addition, revampment and cancellation of the 6th article includes providing the use of the surplus funds of public administration, which can be created during the year in order to effectively and efficiently use the funds given by this law, to provide for the needs of other public administrations. Dear MPs, Burdur MP Mehmet Akif Ersoy in the 1st term parliament... is Mehmet Akif Ersoy's 20 December 1873, which is today's birthday anniversary, 27 December 1936, and the anniversary of his death next week. We hereby remember Mehmet Akif Ersoy with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. We are pleased to know that our university in Burdur, which bears great honor and privilege in taking the name of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, lives in the name of our country poet. We're talking about a case man we've been targeting in the budget of 2018, who's created our development of Turkey, reached the level of modern civilization, presented it with accurate assessments, who's struggled with ignorance, taassupla, regression in his life. Some people and organizations are organizing Mehmet Akif days abroad and abroad in order to lure Turkey into the middle of the Middle Ages. They wrote and wrote. The darkness of Akif and the Middle Ages is as opposite as night and day. Only those who have seen Akif (Akif) in the darkness of the Middle Ages are living in the Stone Age. According to Akif, the greatest cause of internal conflict is ignorance. Are those who know and those who do not know equal? The Voice of Right says: Of course not... one's human, one's animal! So, from a disgrace called ignorance, He's got to be determined to survive, people. Is it not enough, or is this the final lesson of disaster? Akif believes that imitation and Turkey will never reach the level of modern civilization. Because he thinks copycatism is both killing the mindset and preventing new discoveries. Today, as we make a national and domestic budget based on prosperity and peace, we come from the country's difficult times, making a budget that supports growth, investment and monitors fiscal discipline, taking into account the future of Turkey. Look, what does Mehmet Akif Ersoy say about this in 1919?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0708par0284	Tell me where he was born.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0707par0285	There are a bunch of places called schools. The question is, what do people give them? Millions. What's that? Property. This? Medical. This? Marine. What's that? Him? Baytar. This? Agriculture. That? Engineering. Very well, I have nothing to say about any of it, except, What did they grow? Tell me. When we are done with the shipyard or the sea, It's our custom to run to England. For a broken bridge comes the chief from Belgium; I don't know how to summon a physician. For example, there's no budget account... Let him come to the finances, Monsieur Loren. Where are our countertops? Where's the industry? It's either Brussels, Berlin, or Manchester! As noted, Mehmet Akif expressed what we must do to regain the power and dignity of our state and to take its place among the Western states. What's he saying? Not now, it's Edirneli Kemal Unakitan, Batman's Mehmet Simsek, Bayburt's Naci Agbal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2016, at the age of ten, 32, 000 students and the University of Akif. -- by our president -- was accepted by the Ministry of Development in a differential mission based on animalism. In the same way, our university held international seminars on behalf of Akif. Look, last week we were in Albania in Tirana, and the President of Albania joined. That's where we gave our foreign minister the honorary Ph.D. title to Mevlüt Davoglu. That's where we presented our second scientific awards. We expect our universities to form a generation of Asim (Asim) when the university's budget was adopted the day before yesterday. [[Microphone accepted by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0709par0304	I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0707par0305	As Mehmet Akif talks about the generation of Asim, the struggle is this: on one hand there are locals and nationals, and on the other there are those who think they can shed light on the copycats. On one hand, there are those who serve this nation, and on the other, there are those who hold people accountable, and there are those who insult them. On one side is the rule nation. On the other side, there are guardians who don't see the nation as unconcerned. On one hand, there are those who defend their lives for the future of the young men of this country, and on the other, those who sacrifice the young to their blind ideology. On one side, there's people who build it, and on the other side, there's people who burn it down. In today's Turkey, the same battle continues on the same lines.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0710par0306	Where was Mehmet Akif born?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0707par0307	Yes, Mehmet Akif Ersoy was born in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0710par0308	Bayramic.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0707par0309	Our Çanakkale is owning, our 81 provinces are owned by Turkey. Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0711par0312	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0712par0313	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0711par0314	Mr. Stonedemir, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0712par0315	Yes, I'd like a minute of my position according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0711par0316	Here, finish it in a minute, but I won't prolong it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0712par0317	I won't let it go, not even for a minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0711par0318	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0712par0321	We really want an explanation for the tag on this Pain -- I've expressed it there too -- in fact. So, who's the bureaucrat who did this tag, who did it with, and who's going to send this tag to, what's the point? We demand an explanation for this. We're not going to let this computer actually turn off the computer that's been left on. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0711par0323	Thank you. On behalf of him, Mr. Serkan Topal will speak for the last time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, I just asked you, I'm going to rephrase here. I want to thank the Minister for his sensitivity at the point of resolving the treasures in Hatay. I hope you'll give the good news to our fellow Hatays as soon as possible. Now, frankly, I was going to make another speech, but first, as the HDP MP said, the pain is not without it. As a teacher serving in Ağrı, I say that the Republican People's Party is always on the side of Ağrı (Ağrı) at the point of resolving the problems of Ağrı.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0714par0335	When did you teach?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0336	I listened carefully to Mr. Özcelik's speech. Yes, we do remember Mehmet Akif Ersoy, but Mehmet Akif Ersoy is not only here to say what he says, we need to internalize him. What Mr. Ersoy was saying: I've lived free forever, I've lived free, Who the hell's gonna chain me up? I'm surprised. I'm like a roaring flood, chewing on me, overcoming me, I'll tear up the mountains, I won't fit in the vasts, I'll overflow.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0715par0342	We applauded Mehmet Akif Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0343	Mehmet Akif Ersoy was defending Turkey, and Mehmet Akif Ersoy preferred not to be under the protection of any country, but rather to die. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Özçelik, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I'm asking you: 911 is as strong as a Syrian border deed, not even an ant would have come through there, safe and sound. Now what? I'm asking you, what happened? Do jihadist terrorists enter from many countries around the world today? He's going in. You can ask, you can look at the records, they've been arrested recently, maybe over 2,000 terrorists have been caught in the last four years.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0715par0345	No jihadist terrorists.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0346	I'm asking: where's he from? Tunisian. Where's he from? Egyptian. What do they do, how do they get in and out?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0716par0347	He got caught. That's good. We got him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0715par0348	Does it bother you that he got caught?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0349	Here, you have to understand Mehmet Akif Ersoy. Mehmet Akif Ersoy is not only here to say what he thinks, we need to internalize it, we need to internalize it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If you're talking about a national budget, they'll ask you: What did you do about Cyprus?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0715par0352	What did we do?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0353	What did you do about the Aegean Islands?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0715par0354	What did you do?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0717par0355	We did it, we went to Cyprus in '74.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0356	You've kept quiet. I mean, when it comes to talking, you don't leave ash on the grill, but when it comes to practice, you shut up, you shut up. In fact, domesticity and nationality are a clear explanation of your thinking in Cyprus; the real nationality is not to give the original islands of the Aegean; the real nationality is to speak clearly of your thinking there; the nativeness, the nationality is there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, speaking of nationalism and domesticity, there was a philanthropist, philanthropist, philanthropist, Reza Zarrab. When he came to our country, his name was Reza Zarrab, and some started to lie in front of him, his name was Reza Sarraf. Do you know what Sarraf is in Arabic? It's a cash changer. Riza, Riza, Riza! You know, the thing is, what are you, what are you? While there were 5,700 imprisoned and convicted Turkish citizens abroad, those who didn't do anything for one of them gave you two notes for those who remained silent while the great Turkish soldier was being put in a bag over his head. Oh, Riza! You'll have that note, you'll have that music note, you'll be singing like a nightingale, Reza. Oh, Riza!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0718par0359	You seek help from America. For God's sake, please!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0360	Now, I'm going to ask a very simple question, very simple: is Riza Sarraf a traitor, or an agent sent by other states?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0718par0361	You're trying to help with the U.S. case! You can't be a man of the people, you can't be a man of the people, you can't be a man of the people, you can't be a man of the people, you can't be a man of the people, you can't be a man of the people.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0713par0362	If Reza Sarraf is a traitor and a spy, who are they to cooperate with him? Will there be an investigation into those who cooperate with him? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The question is very simple. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0719par0367	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0720par0368	We've answered this 50 times, we won't answer it 50 more times.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0719par0369	We're going to do the QA now, Mr. Lawmakers. We're ten minutes out. I'll have the questions in five minutes, and Mr. Secretary will answer in the next five minutes. Yes, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0721par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0722par0374	Mr. President, the Minister is here to answer our questions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0723par0375	Who'll give it to you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0722par0376	Mr. Osman Minister. Look, here's our Minister of Youth and Sports.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0723par0377	But his budget's gone. You guys talk here, you can talk now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0722par0379	His promise to me... People are waiting to hear from you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0723par0381	Excuse me, Mr. Lightning, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0724par0384	Let's reset the time, Mr. President, and I'll start over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0723par0385	Of course, we'll start over. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0724par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the subcontractor law will be on Turkey's agenda next week or Friday with the KHK. The people who work in certain municipalities are very nervous because they say that municipal workers will be transferred to municipal companies, BİTbooks. Minister, Turkey has suffered enough from people doing the same job serving in different positions. We want all employees, in municipalities, in OSCEs, in all institutions, to have the same status in all institutions, in the legislation that will now be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Now, as soon as you go outside, there are four groups of people working at the Assembly's tea stove, doing the same job: working for minimum wage, working for subcontractors, officer, staffed employee; 4/B/B/B/L, 4/C. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They have pensions, social rights, all kinds of problems. Come on, let's put them together under one status and not separate people. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0725par0392	Thank you. Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0726par0394	Mr. Secretary, there's a mass in this country whose rights have been taken from them, who's old enough to wait for retirement, who's old enough to live in retirement, in their own terms, called "YIT. " Even though you have so far blocked their righteous demands, your friend the Minister claims that they have disturbed the actuary balance, they do not want privileges or early retirement, they just want their suspended pension rights. Mr. Secretary, in this House, we've expressed their demands many times before, even offered them the law. The vast majority of these people are struggling to make a living. Come on, let's take care of their victims together during this legislature and make them smile. I also have one more question: a child born today is born with a debt of how many liras, and we want to know in particular.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0725par0396	Here you go, Mr. Biceter.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0727par0397	Mr. Secretary, don't you think the decision by the Finance Ministry to ban this Rotary firm from all official tenders, published in today's Official Gazette, should be included in all official institutions that concern other ministries? That's my first question. My second question is: After you canceled the tender by route, you made a deal with another supporting company called Mendika, who fed on the same pool as him. Doesn't that make it obvious that you're canceling this tender? Isn't there another firm in Turkey who caters other than these companies, who bids? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0728par0400	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0729par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. As the AKP, you're constantly polarizing society. In universities, the rectors were elected professors, they were appointed from six people; now there is no election, your president is throwing away what he wants. There was a program that we were going to train future professors called the Teaching Program. And you degenerated this beautiful system. Now, the president who asks for it transfers the YOP member to the 33/A staff, the permanent staff, the rector who asks for it, to the 50/D staff. In fact, they're amongst the teachers who work together at the same faculty. Why are you separating people? Why are you playing with the future of colleges?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0728par0403	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0730par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course every member of our country is valuable to us in blue collars and white collars. However, an arrangement has been made regarding the hiring and employment of our martyrs' relatives, veterans and relatives, and some of them have been provided. High school graduates and university graduates have been hired in the service staff for purchases. Our fallen relatives, veterans, and fellow veterans employed in the janitorial staff have a legitimate request for the transition to the officer's staff in this particular sense. Every penny spent on our sacred relics is as lawful as their mother's white milk. Will there be an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0731par0407	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0732par0408	Mr. President, I want to thank Mr. Lightning. Mr. Lightning has made an assessment of the arrangement that we've almost completed as we speak as the government regarding both coverage and status. I thank him. We too are preparing to organise expectations and conditions for further work on public employment. Hopefully, when these studies are completed in a very short period of time, there will be a very positive arrangement for employment and for those who work there. This is the age-appropriate issue you call EYT, and frankly, I'm going to share it with the Department of Labor the way you described it, and we have a meeting with them tomorrow, but maybe it's wrong for me to make an evaluation right now, not something I know too much about. Mr. Bicer, the restraining order issued in the Official Gazette on this Rotary firm means ban on all public institutions, not just for the Ministry of Finance, but for the Public Contraction Act. Therefore, he will not be able to enter a tender in any institution under the designated ban. On the other hand, as a minister, we have a new service contract related to the same work as another firm. There's no legal connection between the company you're telling me and the previous company, based on the information your friends have given me. In that respect, if you have any information about this, I'd appreciate it if you could share it. Of course, we're all sensitive about these things. In the food service, especially at every stage of food safety, it is vital that the entire process be very healthy from the arrival of the product into the warehouse to the presentation of the product, and that the necessary inspections be conducted. We have these kinds of issues from time to time. We all have to be sensitive about this, especially in the summer months, and the institutions are very enthusiastic about it. Mr. Erdem, from time to time, there are very different regulations regarding veterans' relatives... you know, martyrs and veterans. Lastly, some rights were given to those who were killed during the 15th of July in the low coup attempt -- God have mercy on all -- and veterans -- but before that, there are some financial and social rights brought in with different legislation. There are also reviews from time to time that when these rights are compared to each other, one right to a group is not given to another group. The Ministry of the Family is conducting a technical study on this matter, I believe. We've got our notes, and I'm going to share with them what you're saying here. I think we can all show the sensitivity necessary as a state for veterans and relatives of our martyrs. In that respect, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0733par0414	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there's a motion on the matter, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article (1) of the 6th Article of the Central Management Budget Law of 2018, which is being discussed, and that the drafting of the bent be arranged accordingly. Zechariah Haziel Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0734par0423	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0733par0424	Government?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0735par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0733par0426	I'm reading the reason: Article 1 of Law 6761 and Article 5018 of Public Financial Management and Control Article 21 of Article 1 of Law No. 6761 are carried out by law to transfer funds between the budgets of public administrations under Central Administration. However, with the ability to save money and not exceed ten per cent of the overall budgetary grants to carry out a balanced and effective budget policy, procedures and procedures for the transfer of funds between budgets of public administrations under the central administration are determined in the central management budget law. In accordance with the basic principles of Law 5018 and the financial system established by the Minister of Finance (a) in accordance with Article (1) of Article 6 (a) of the Central Management Act of 2018; in the absence of 10 per cent of general budget grants, the budget of public administration and private budgets (01), (02), (03), (06), (07), and (09) of the budgets of public budgets, or of the budget of the Ministry of Finance, has been issued to the budget of public administration (7%). In the latest joke of Article 5018 of Law No. 5018, "The budgets of public administrations cannot be transferred from staff costs, transactions and subsidized schemes to other arrangements." It also ignores its limitations by embezzlement. The Finance Minister also received the same powers in the central management budget laws for more extensive years earlier. After reviewing the spending tables on the grants in the Court's general fitness notifications from 2012 to 2016, it can't be transferred to the public administration's staff costs and social security institutions to other arrangements, contrary to the rule of the Finance Minister's Office, which is referred to Article 5018's "Security transactions" on Article 21 The Finance Ministry uses this method to avoid the obligation to organise additional grant legislation, and also violates the 87th Article of the Constitution, which regulates the right to budgeting of the TBMM. In addition, this arrangement was carried out on 26/05/2016 dates and E of the Constitutional Court, which evaluated the application for the cancellation of Article 6/1-a of the Central Budget Law for 2015. 2015/7, K. It is also contrary to the identification and explanations specified in Decision 2016/47. The Finance Minister cannot be given broad powers without a framework, unspecified limitation, and the transfer of law enforcement authority. The setting of a limit for the transfer sum, such as 10% of the general budget grants, does not mean setting a frame, drawing a border. It is proposed that the Budget Law is contrary to the Constitution or to the amendment of existing laws or to be embezzled as of budget year, because it violates the Constitution's Articles 2, 7, 87, and 161. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0736par0435	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit06spe0733par0436	All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit07spe0733par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 6 of the Law Bill No. 503, the decision was not sufficient in the vote of the Council of Lords and their friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... Let's do the vote with the electronic device, there's a disagreement between the clerks. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's no decision enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0733par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 6 of the Law Bill No. 503, the decision was not enough in the second vote of the Council of Lords Lale Karbük and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 7- (1) 38.01 of the budget for the chairmanship of the Board of Higher Education. 02. 00-09. 4. 2. 20-2-05. The grant included in the 2 (Student Development Programme) arrangement is paid by considering the number of students assigned to the higher education institutions that provide graduate education under this programme, the number of students assigned to purchase goods and services. This sum is paid, on the one hand, in the internal income of the concerned higher education institution (B), while on the other hand, the institute of higher education is authorized to register funds for the table marked "A" (A). (2) was the first joke (d) of Article 43 of Higher Education Law 4/11/1981 (d), 44th, 46th, 58th, additional 25th, additional 26th and additional 27th Articles 19/11/1992, under Article 7/43, and other revenues are not registered as special income and special allowance to the budgets of higher education institutions. The amount and revenues collected are registered as self-inflicted income for the related higher education institution budget. In return for these recorded sums, the funds put into the budget of the relevant institute of higher education are used on the basis of revenues. (3) In return for self-inflicted income, no transfers can be made between the budget (a) of the higher education institution (except the transfers between the grants at the fourth level of functional categorization (with the exception of the transfers to the grants imposed in terms of self-inflicted income under the function of 9.6.0-Education Services function). A) The amount paid by relevant states or international organisations in exchange for expenses to foreign national students and staff who have been educated and studied at the National Security Directorate's institutes, B) As part of an agreement made by NATO authorities to pay for maintenance and repairs of auxiliary airports, C) The amount for customs and Trade Ministry services will be paid by the institution at 2 per cent of the bandrol fees that were collected by Customs Administrations to the Turkish Radio-Television Agency. On the one hand, it comes into the general budget for the same purpose, while on the other hand, it is authorized to save funds for private arrangements to be opened in the administration budgets and to transfer parts of the funds that are not spent within the year. İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Költer will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 7. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0737par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish the Central Management Budget Law of 2018 would bring blessings to our nation, to our state, to our country. Congratulations on your new year. As you can see, the purpose of politics is to serve the nation. We're just the way it is. Of course, it's not enough to be just a come-on, but it's also necessary to show a higher level of sincerity that is worthy of it. A honorable person is also a sensitive person. We need to be able to show the dignity of will to defend the rights of life and property of our people, not just of ourselves, but of the same nation. We have to worry about the problems of all our citizens, who have had hope for politics, who are deeply bound to democratic institutions, who have been concerned about peace, prosperity, stability, brotherhood, and the struggle for their future. It's also a need to have a conscience. Why conscience? Because conscience is the ability to distinguish between right and wrong. Why conscience? Because conscience is also a human quality that allows us to focus on other people, on our citizens, on matters, on intimacy. Our late source of ideas, Ziya Gökalp, says: "God saves a man from a disaster of conscience, for he has no comfort or compensation. " In the depths of our noble conscience, let us be sure, there is a master of the oppressed. Mr. President, if you interfere... it's like I'm talking to myself. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0738par0026	Congressmans, please be quiet. Deep within our mausoleum conscience, I assure you, the heartbeat of the oppressed is heard, the footsteps of our blessed memories are heard, the powerful call of our ruling history echoes. Of course, it is not only a conscience, it is not enough, it is necessary to be just, it is our national and spiritual responsibility to rule with justice, to deal with justice. No one who says, "I am a human being will be able to ignore or neglect the responsibility of any political and statesman. " As the late Necip Fazil Shortfurek said, we must, as quiet as silence, translate the voice, the feeling of our free people as loud as screaming, to their demands, to their demands, we must, we must. I'll ask you if it's possible for us to find peace, peace, before the victim's sacrifice is over. Is it reasonable for us to be insensitive to the sighs of the oppressed, to the tears of grief pouring into their hearts? Of course not, of course not. Then we must hear and turn our heads to our brothers who seek their rights by listening to the voice of our conscience. By guiding justice, we must be able to show honesty, sincerity, courage to give right. Right now, millions of people are watching us, turning their attention to us, waiting for the hand to reach out to any of your problems. His ears are undoubtedly here at this time of night. Our nation has put hope in the Central Management Budget of 2018. There's a great and holy nation waiting for the power of food, work, peace, will, and a strong and national expression for the future. In short, the steep head, the full belly, the happy tomorrow, the right of the Turkish nation is the foundation of dignity. We can't give it up, we can't close our eyes, and we can't turn our backs on it. Come, let us hear the cries of our brothers, and let us hold them, and let us not leave them to loneliness, and to despair. Let's show them the kind, generous, justice and conscience of the Turkish state; show them the will that suits the title of veteran of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What's not in the budget of 2018? With the 2018 budget, what expenses aren't intended. Come, let us show the nobility of our national unity and solidarity. Come, let us beg and listen to the cries of the victims. For example, and for the first time, let's support the subcontractors who work at CSI, not separate them, not separate them, let's recruit them. It is only fitting that the public administrations under the general budget in the central administration, the administrations under the special budget, the regulatory and auditing institutions and the sub-employees employed as part of the service to social security institutions based on hiring staff as of December 4, 2017. We support this without a doubt, without a doubt. Our brothers, who are employed by sub-employees in municipalities and municipal private administrations, will also be employed as workers in economic state institutions. But there are doubts here, there are riddles here, there are objections here. There's no age limit, no education requirements, no noble job-helping distinctions; we have to say it's a pretty good decision. It is also very positive that employees with 4/C status will be transferred to 4/B status and supported by us. So, why don't we see the subcontractors who work at the OSCE, and why don't we recruit them? I say that the bride should adhere to the principle of equality, to the understanding of justice and justice, to the understanding of governance, to the rule of law, which is likely to be removed, and to be passed. Secondly, there are about 1,000 charities and solidarity foundations operating in Turkey, dear friends. Around 10,000 of our brothers and sisters work here, including the general requirements of the government officials, as well as the specific conditions of the mission. He's hired as an officer, and he wants a staff working as an officer, and he wants a staff working as a worker, right? They're doing community work, but they're not being heard. Is that fair? The Ministry of Family and Social Policy tells our employees that you are not our people, but is that true? Can we or can't we meet these brothers with their expectations, with a law order or a decree in order to get them out or to get them out on the agenda? Third, of course, what I'm constantly stressing is the staff needs and demands of our expert sergeants. Article 5 of Law 3269 states that our senior sergeants are contractual Turkish Armed Forces personnel. My dear friends, our special sergeants are members of an honorable profession that wages the heroic struggle of the country. The country is not a bribe from criminals; it is the name of the boundaries taken by the sword of our ancestors, drawn in blood. So our special sergeants are heroicly protecting the country, waiting for its country. So we think it's lawful for our special sergeants to be recruited as members of an honorable profession that deserves everything for their sacrifice, like the white milk of their mothers. I wish our Finance Minister were here. I'd like to repeat that our attending sergeants have a very intense request. Let's put our special sergeants on the staff, please, by solving the contractual problem in Law 3269, and let's get this over with permanently. Again, I give you my regards. 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill wishes that the year 2018 would be a blessing, and I give you my regards again. Thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Orender. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the Manisa MP, Mr. Mazlum Nurlu will speak. Here you are, Mr. Nurlu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0739par0041	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on Article 7 of the budget bill of 2018. I salute the General Assembly and the citizens who are watching us at the head of their television. Congressmans, we've come to the end of the 2018 budget talks. Opposition parties have tried to voice their criticism of the budget from this bench, from the nation's bench. The AKP lawmakers, unable to defend the budget because of this budget's interest and increase budget, attacked our friends on the stand, unfortunately, trying to defend the budget with brute force. Actually, it's the guilt that's underpinning your behavior. A sign of what he's done to this country for 15 years is to listen to the cries of the laborer, the pensioner, the officer, the farmer, the tradesman and the industrialist who's been moaning under the economic crisis. Dear lawmakers, corruption and bribery, unfortunately, have become the basic political understanding of bureaucracy and public opinion. The alleged bribery numbers are getting herpes. Despite that, the AKP has taken its mentality, the pool media, and is constantly throwing mud at everyone but itself and the opposition. When they accuse our Ataşehir Mayor of corruption, their goal is to conceal the corruption of the Metropolitan Mayors who have betrayed Istanbul and Ankara, while their main goal is to make Reza Zarrab forget the dollars in his shoeboxes, the watches in his arms, and to clear the ministers whom Reza said he had paid for in advance. Most of all, it's because the President's relatives are unaccounted for and can't explain the millions of dollars he sent to Man Island. It's an expression of their guilt that they're enemies to their crowning yesterday. The reason why they threatened Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our president, in his mobistic manner, is because they couldn't deny their own conduct. (Applause from CHP rows) I call from here openly: If someone is to be expelled because he is a member of the council, the first to start is Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, what does Süleyman Soylu say in his words of praise to the leader of the Ankara: "There is a potential attack on a certain individual who will try to eliminate hatred, which he has allied all over the world, which he has trained with his schools in all parts of the world, which will ensure a compromise between both the dialogue and the religions. Fetullah Gulen is not the cause of this attack. In Turkey, oppressed people are coming to power for the first time. Yesterday, the Interior Minister, who advocated the coming to power, left his own party, and took the Ministry in AKP, and constantly attacked the Republican People's Party in exchange for the reward he received. You may forget what Mr. Süleyman Soylu, who had not said a word to AKP until yesterday, is acting as an imam for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. You may forget what he said, but we have not forgotten, and neither will this nation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0740par0048	Pass that. A man's word doesn't depend on us.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0739par0049	In fact, this aggressive attitude of the Minister of the Government, whose last name is the Soylu, is his true face because Suleiman Noble is a political turncoat and is now in Turkey's political history.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0741par0051	You're the quitter.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0739par0052	Dear lawmakers, AKP's politics and budget are not equal. With this government budget, it is not possible to increase production in the country, increase national income per capita, reach the necessary level of prosperity. Turkey must base its development on a production structure determined by efficient and secure means of working, not by the cheap labour force of competition. Unfortunately, the spending pens needed for such a structural transformation were not included in this budget, which would increase our future production capacity and our competitiveness. One of them, and most importantly, is agriculture. Agriculture is a strategic sector all over the world, but unfortunately, AKP governments have ignored agriculture, ignored farmers. During this period, an agricultural area the size of Belgium was unplantable. We are number one in European imports, number two in the world. During the AKP, we paid $10 billion for the import of wheat, corn, beans, rice and lentils. So the money that was supposed to be in our farmer's pocket went to other countries, foreign farmers. Dear MPs, Russia was the country where we exported most agricultural products. Our exports, $900 million in 2015, dropped to $331 million in 2016. Our import went from $1.8 billion to $1.3 billion. Imports are twice the size of exports, and the difference is now four floors. Unfortunately, the Manisa grape maker paid the bill for the crash of the Russian plane. The plane almost fell into the bonds of Manisa. And since we can't export grapes, neither age nor raisins are worth anything. Congressmans, these figures show us that the industry is the agricultural sector that has the most impacted by the wrong foreign policy being monitored. So the government, as in everything, makes a U-turn and tries to fix the relationships it has broken, but unfortunately, it happens to our farmer, our peasant. Dear lawmakers, when the country's economy grows, it's a lie. If there are people growing up, these are fellow businessmen who feed on tenders, politicians who are corrupt and corrupt, some mayors and some opportunists, some traitorous bureaucrats.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0742par0056	Like Ataşehir?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0739par0057	It's a shame -- I'm sorry -- that during the AKP, bribes and corruption have become a virtue, and because these scum can't be cleaned up, the mayors have one resignation because corruption can't be accounted for in court, so they've been forced, pressured, and tried to shut it down. Dear lawmakers, we hear from time to time allegations of bribery, corruption against AKP mayors. But now, the new fashion bully, the two mayors of the AKP, in Manisa, turned their eyes to kidnap a mayor at gunpoint and take him hostage. In fact, the President's position and rhetoric are at the root of these because the AKP people are imitating him. If his son, his brother, sends millions of dollars to his in-law Man Island, then the bureaucrats, the mayors, can't do business without bribes. You stand up to everyone, you threaten everyone, you get the support of a bunch of bloody mobsters, the mayors turn to mobsters, and they kidnap people at gunpoint, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0743par0059	This power has ended the Mafia in this country, this power!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0744par0060	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0743par0061	The Mafia had it before, and now it's gone. Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0062	I repeat: If you support a terrorist organization to stay in power and hand over the state staff to the traitors, they will come, and on July 15th, they will try to strike, and in the end, we will be left with 248 martyrs and 2,193 gass and sufferings.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0746par0063	Those who were photographed in Pennsylvania are now taunting our MP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0743par0064	You talk about old poverty.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0065	Dear MPs, these are all the sins of the AKP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0746par0066	Those who were photographed in Pennsylvania are now taunting our deputy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0067	Of course, these sins, I believe, have also caused a deficit in AKP's future budget.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0747par0069	If you knew about sin, you wouldn't lie.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0748par0070	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0071	This began to make some lawmakers nervous that a member of the AKP -- and I read from the text text -- sent a message to their voters on Friday, wishing and praying to be interested in the world budgets as well as in the world budgets.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0749par0072	What's in it? It's beautiful.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0073	These messages are good, but whatever you do, your sins in the future budget are so great that I wonder how you're going to pay for them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0750par0075	Bravo!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0751par0076	What this country has seen in your time of power.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0077	▪ Dervis Alim says my breath is right, I don't doubt the language that says right. Hell has no branches, Everyone takes their fire away from here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, our country doesn't deserve this. The time has come for normalisation, so the State of Emergency must be lifted, justice and law must be restored. Finally, I salute the General Assembly, saying that we will vote no to the budget of 2018 on a budget that will ensure that the income is shared with the right of rights and prosperity.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0752par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0753par0086	After all this talk, you can't say yes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0745par0087	Sir?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0753par0088	After all this talk, you can't say yes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0754par0089	Get in there, get in there, get in there!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0755par0090	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0756par0091	Are you giving me instructions or are you giving me instructions?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0757par0092	Dear Nurlu, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0755par0093	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0758par0094	Yeah, are you saying something?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0759par0095	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0758par0096	He's just insulting me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0760par0097	Get out of here! Go! Go!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0759par0098	You don't give me orders!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0760par0099	Go!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0761par0100	Mr. Cora, what kind of language is that? Can you tell a congressman to take his place? You can't!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0759par0101	You don't give me orders!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0762par0102	Are you pointing at the boy? Why are you doing that? What kind of a thing is that? What do you mean? You can't call him that!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0763par0103	All right, calm down. Why are you shouting?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0762par0104	No, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0764par0105	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0762par0106	Is he a child, or is he a late man?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0107	You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0766par0108	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0109	Shut the fuck up! Get the fuck out! Then get out, get out!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0766par0110	Get back in your seat!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0111	Come on, let's talk alone! Get out!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0767par0112	Does that look good on you? Do those moves look good on you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0766par0113	Watch your language! Watch your language!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0114	Don't bother me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0766par0115	Get back in your seat!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0116	Then get the fuck out of here by yourself!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0768par0117	Are you a bully?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0765par0118	I'm a bully!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0769par0119	You talk straight, too!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0770par0120	Watch your language!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit08spe0771par0121	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0771par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0772par0008	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly and salute the representatives of the people who are now in prisons. Friends, with these H.R.O.L. practices, with the S.H.K. practices, the whole community is really under a lot of pressure and persecution. I'm going to show you an example right now, and I'm going to tell you what's going on, what's going on in the country, maybe you don't know what's going on, but we've been getting a lot of reports of victims. Look, in Batman, the young people wanted to hold a concert this Friday, what was the response from the governor's office? The program planned to be held at the wedding hall was not considered suitable for preventing any negative events, so even our exit now presents the possibility of a negative event. So there's no reason not to leave here that seems more appropriate. The future was rejected by Kurdish artists, such as the world-renowned Xero Abbas. What do you call it in the end, from the governor's office? If you do so, the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No. 2911 has been stated that legal proceedings will be carried out against the Law on Opposition. Look, I'll tell you the contradictions: there's a Constitution that binds us here and we all bring together, says that everyone has the right to hold meetings, demonstrations and demonstrations without permission, without attack, without permission. This OHAL and you hand over this authority to a governor, the legislature of this Assembly, the duty of the legislature, unfortunately. It's beneath the dignity of this House. When I chain myself up so that Hasankeyf won't be dynamited, when I make a statement, the police officer says: "You need to get permission from the manager of the estate, Hasankeyf subsidiary." If I were to speak here right now, a governor, a governor, and an officer would come to me and say, "You need to get permission from something like that." Is it worthy of the honor, honor, and honor of the Assembly, which you call the Constructionary Assembly?" We shouldn't fall so low. We destroy ourselves. It's a self-destruction, because there's a famous technical concept. Taking our authority and handing it over to the appointed ones is not worthy of the glory and honor of this House. Last time we talked about Arabic Day, we thought we'd have two words here, two minutes in Arabic, and unfortunately, we were immediately warned. The unknown language will be recorded. But yesterday, on the official Twitter account of the state of Israel, Israel celebrated World Day in Arabic and wrote again in English, saying: "In Arabic, Israel is the official language beside Hebrew. He also made video clips of Arabic and Arabic. I mean, friends, Arab enemies...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0773par0012	Now, if there's talk...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0774par0013	If it's official.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0772par0014	No, you can look it up, you can look it up now; Hebrew and Arabic are the official language of Israel.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0773par0015	Our official language...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0775par0016	Why don't you try listening?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0773par0017	In our official language...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0776par0018	Anyway, I won't get into that argument, but the Arab enemy, Palestine, Jerusalem's enemy Israel, has been doing this for thousands of years, and we've been brothers with Arabs, neighbors with Arabs almost across the border in the Middle East, and we're being persecuted when we're born, born in Arabic, born in Arabic, die in Arabic, we're doing our daily prayers, prayer in Arabic, we're still doing our prayers, this language is still going to be written down by the unknowing language, and the sign "x." Surely that is our great shame, our dilemma. The Arabic language, as we call it, is the richest language in the world, with the treasure of 12 million 302,000 words. There is English in the 2nd place, 600 thousand. So this language is 20 times richer than the language in the second row. On the night of the 15th of July, everyone prayed until morning with this unknown language, which is what we call the unknown language. Either it's all over our lives, but whatever it is, it's still listed in the transcripts. This is a situation that would really be unbecoming to this country, this Parliament. All of our books were written in the Arabic alphabet a hundred years ago. So just as milk and oil are intertwined, the culture of Arab culture, Turkish culture, Islamic culture and the culture of Middle Eastern people is intertwined in this way, it's not possible to separate it, it's our duty to make it official, it's our duty to make it official. And I'll tell you this: everything here before these concrete reports, you know that they go into levhimahfuz records. So even though what we're talking about here doesn't go into the transcripts, I want you to know that it's going to go into levhimahfuz, and it's going to have a good or bad account. Look, I told you last time, but I didn't have the paperwork. On April 6, 2009, Barack Obama gave a speech at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whose speech was first written in Turkish, and then written in a letter "x" and said in the transcripts that the English text of Barack Hussein Obama's speech was included in the English text of this Parliament and the Turkish Parliament. Aren't we worth as much as the English? Isn't Arabic worth as much as English? Remember, we Arabs, Kurds, Turks, Lazlar, Circiks, Çanakkale, we fought together against the British. The language of those who fight together does not enter into the transcripts, Arabic, Kurdish, Lazca, Zazaca, but the language of those we fight against is passed through the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0777par0021	He's a stranger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0776par0022	Let's be strangers then. No, we're the native of this country and...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0777par0023	You're not a stranger, just because you're not.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0776par0024	No, whoever has the right has the right to have the right to have the right of another race and another language. I'm sure most of you have read the Koran. Look, we have -- we have teachers, we have theologians -- 49 Hucurats: [[The reading of the 13th verse of Hucurat by the preacher]] We have created you into tribes and tribes so that you may know each other.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0778par0028	Not 49, 13. Hucurat 13.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0779par0029	You can't translate.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0780par0030	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0781par0031	I can't turn it. You'll tell me what's wrong and I'm sorry, but even if I did it right, you'll say, "Sorry, I was wrong." Behold, how he expounded it: this is for the sake of repentance, not for the sake of praise, not for the sake of transgression, but for the sake of unbelief. Yes, these languages are currently not recorded, but are actually denied. So we know what's going on in math -- it's unknown. But I'm afraid that doesn't exist. Again, Greek chapter 22: [[Reading the 22nd verse of Greek passage by the preacher]] Another of the signs of God is the creation of your tongues. There are indeed signs in that for those who know. So our union is a test, a test for us to accept each other, not to suppress each other in order to deny each other. Languages don't sit and write. I mean, somehow, God's got it genetically collected into people, into their genes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0782par0037	Thank you, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0781par0038	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0782par0039	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0781par0040	Therefore, friends, no one has the right to choose his own language, his own race, and he has no right to choose his own parents. Let's ask for what we want for ourselves, for our language, for our race, for our religion, for someone else, because, as I said, no language sits down and rules are dictated. Through pre-hearing or, you know, through that Tower of Babel, languages have somehow brought joy to the world. It is our duty to protect these languages. Look, these archaeologists sometimes dig 50 years with a century's brush to detect an underground culture. Let's preserve what's on the earth before we bring it down to the ground and pass it on to the next generation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0783par0044	Thank you. Congressmans, I'd like to share a piece of information with you, which is now from the President of the Tutorial Services: The Arabic language, as mentioned by Mr. Leo, has been passed on as a language that is not known to the reports, not as an unknown language, but as a non-traditional language. That's how we explain this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0781par0048	May I say something, Mr. President? Last time, Ahmet Aydın was running the president, the unknown language passed by. He made a statement in the form of "x." But you can look at it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0783par0049	This is the information from the Ministry of Reporting Services, which has been written as non-English language, and that is what the practice is.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0784par0050	How's it going in Kurdish, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0785par0051	That's how it goes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0783par0052	I wanted to share that information with you. Yes, Mr. Abubekir Bal will speak on behalf of him now. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0786par0060	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 7th Article of the Central Management Budget Law of 2018. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, considering our country's goal of becoming one of the 10 major economies of the world in 2023, it will only be possible to achieve this goal with the quality of production and the human resources needed for production. During the time of our governments, we focused on education, and we devoted the largest share of the budget to education. In 2018, we allocate 134 billion resources to education in line with the goal of equal opportunities in quality education and education. This amount corresponds to about 18 per cent of the budget costs. Since 2002, we have increased our education resources 11 times, raising the mandatory training period from eight to 12 years during our governments. We've made significant improvements in basic indicators of education. In this context, we have increased the equality of opportunity in education. We've had higher schooling rates in every level of education. We've narrowed down the number of teachers and students per class. In this regard, the pilot's schooling rate increased to 96 per cent in primary school in 2002-2003, 81 per cent in secondary school, and 101 per cent in 2016-2017, respectively, to 107 per cent. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the schooling rate in our governments' time, the equality of opportunities in education has also increased. In 2002, each of our 100 boys and 91 girls studied in elementary school, the number rose to 101 per cent as of 2016-2017. In secondary school, the number increased to 94 per cent in 2016-2017 when each of the 100 boys and 72 girls were reading. In the last eight years, we have reduced the number of students per teacher from 25 per cent to 19 per cent before school, from 22% to 17 per cent in primary school, 13% in general secondary school, and 13% in vocational technical education. We reduced the number of students per class to 24 per cent ahead of school, from 32 per cent in elementary school to 24 per cent in primary school, from 31 per cent in general secondary school to 22 per cent in general, from 36 per cent in vocational and technical education to 23 per cent in vocational education. In addition, we have set aside significant funds in the 2018 budget, including the Transported Education and Food Aid Programme, the Disabled Education Programme, education and teaching support for students who attend supplementary education, vocational education, and technical education, housing support for students who remain at their boarding homes, free courses, book, FATH Project, and FATHIH project. We care about higher education, we increase the funding. We're raising the funding for higher education to 41.7 billion dollars in the budget of 2018, 11 times higher than the 2002 budget. During the time of our governments, there have been significant increases in higher education and higher education rates. The number of universities was 76 in 2002, as of today, with 112 states, 67 foundation universities, 5 foundation universities of applied sciences, the National Defence, Turkish-Japanese Sciences and Technology, and 186. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our budget of 2018 was good for our country and our nation, and I thank all those who have worked hard. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0787par0065	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the person, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, the Adana MP, will speak for the last time. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0068	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. During the last budget talks, Minister of the European Union, Mr. Ömer Çelik has said that full integration into the European Union is a state policy and is a strategic goal for us. He said, "It is even a great pleasure to have a consensus on the matter in parliament; I would like to remind you of just one sentence from a long talk. In fact, our struggle for the rise of freedom as the People's Democratic Party, the rule of law, the fulfilment of full membership in the European Union, and our political approach are strategic, but Turkey, of course, has to do what it wants to be a member of the European Union. Now, if that's the target, what are we supposed to do? What's not in Turkey right now? No freedom of thought and expression, no freedom of religion and conscience, no right to do democratic politics, no independence of justice, no freedom of assembly and organization, no equality of men and women, no equal and free citizenship. Segregation has become a state policy, elected mayors have been appointed trustees in prisons and municipalities, as a means of extortion to municipalities represented by the people's will, as well as with the KHK. People's representatives, lawmakers, co-Chairs are still in prison. Those rights are not available to anyone who is not in favor of power in Turkey, who is not from the AKP. Of course, this list is long, time isn't enough. But if you're from the ruling party, these rights are all open to you. Now, how is it possible to be a member of the European Union in a painting like this? There are values there, and those values must be fulfilled. Recently, Erdogan said something about the AKP's President, Mr. President West Thrace.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0789par0074	How is Spain the European state, Spain?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0075	Sir? You guys are really doing an expert on teasing. I mean, about that...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0790par0076	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please continue.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0077	Mr. President, since you didn't warn us, we have to warn you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0791par0078	I didn't say anything wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0079	Since then, I've been sitting in the front for five hours, persistently and steadyly, every speaker who comes out gets teased, teased about everything.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0791par0080	No, but I didn't say anything wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0081	A listening state, I mean, what is it called? Let's hear it. He doesn't have a problem.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0791par0082	I asked a question.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0083	I mean, we're... you're asking questions, but all my people are getting upset. Instead of giving my speech right now, I have to answer for a minute. This isn't the way it is. I mean, here...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0084	Mr. Danış Beştaş, would you please continue your conversation?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0085	I'll keep going, Mr. President, and there's someone who's constantly talking and picking on us.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0086	It's not just one person, it's everybody.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0087	I mean, that can't be happening, so that's not the right attitude.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0088	Yeah, everybody's doing it, yeah, it's not the right attitude.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0089	We don't do it, we don't do it, we sit and listen, so we don't do it. Now, Erdogan's words are, he says...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0091	Everyone's doing it, Mr. State Beştaş, act righteously, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0092	Mr. President, stop scolding us like a class president.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0093	Don't push it into this situation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0094	You don't have that right, you don't have that authority, and you have...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0095	I have that right, and I have that authority.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0096	You have no right.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0097	Go ahead. I won't give you an extension.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0098	It's like you've got a stick in your hand.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0099	I do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0100	You're always threatening me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0101	Look, there's my bat here, there's my bat.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0102	Is that even possible? That stick is also ours.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0792par0103	Then treat him accordingly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0104	There is discrimination in western Thrace. The people there are not given the necessary support. You can't see such an app against my Greek citizens. He said, "Blah, blah, blah," Mr. Erdogan. Out there, liberal, in there, oppressive. We live in Turkey, we live in discrimination, we live in other ways, we live in freedom of thought and expression, we live in the absence of political rights, but there is a liberal President out there. Now, I'd like to remind you of the ECHR report. Really, Europe...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0793par0106	Autonomy or freedom?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0107	You guys go ahead and pick on me. Besides, you guys are doing everything you can to shut us down. ECHR report card, championships in Turkey... As you know, Turkey was the champion for many years, in 1998, when Russia entered, however, it took away the championship from us; we're in second place, Romania in third place. And the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights are indeed the most painful decisions regarding Turkey: violation of life rights, torture, Article 3, Article 10, violation of the right to freedom and security of persons, violation of the right to a fair trial. Turkey is the country with the most violations from the European Court of Human Rights. And then there's the matter of the implementation of these decisions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0794par0110	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0112	Now, if we want to join the European Union, we have to get rid of this championship, this record. Now, what is it? One of the most breached areas in 2016 -- all of them here in particular -- is still being abused, and their rights violations are being covered. Besides, do you know what this list is? Even though it's 5233. The new law has been passed to cut off the ECHM; the State of Emergency Commission has been established, not to go to the ECHR; it has been granted the right to apply to the AYM, not to go to the ECHM. Now, with this record, we can't enter the European Union. Therefore, all of this needs to be corrected. There is no choice but democracy; apart from the rule of law, there is no other option but equal and free citizenship, and what is said about it should really be carried out here. The rights required in West Thrace must be given to their own citizens first. Kurds to their own citizens... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...not to be tried, but to be called Turkish in West Thrace, he says it is not acceptable.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0794par0116	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0788par0118	I don't study in my native language, I don't speak in my native language.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0794par0119	Mr. Danış Beştaş, your time is up. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0795par0121	We've started a course, so go read it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0796par0122	What course did you open? Did you open it? Did you open it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0795par0123	We took a course in college, go study. What more do you want?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0796par0124	Do you open them for your father's good? I'm a citizen of this country.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0795par0125	If you're a citizen, consider your citizenship!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0796par0126	Okay?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0795par0128	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0797par0129	Cherish it!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0798par0130	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0799par0131	I'm a citizen of this country...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0800par0132	Know your citizenship!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0801par0133	Cherish it!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0799par0134	I have as much right as you do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0800par0135	Cherish your citizenship!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0802par0136	Congressman, what are you doing? Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0803par0137	Cherish this country!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0804par0138	Are you giving me orders? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You're the dirty one. It's a shame!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0141	Please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0804par0142	Don't you see?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0806par0143	They're rude, like you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0144	I don't hear it. What do you mean, that's how you treat me, dear?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0807par0145	Why are you yelling at the President?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0808par0146	Yeah, you didn't hear the dirty one...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0147	I didn't hear, I didn't hear.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0808par0148	So I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0809par0149	Treat the president with respect!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0150	You're yelling, you're scolding, you have attitude. Please know your place.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0809par0151	Bravo, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0810par0152	You know how rude it is to behave like you? You're mean and rude!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0153	Please take your seat, you're out of time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0811par0154	You went to a terrorist funeral the other day.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0810par0155	But he's saying it's a no-good thing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0805par0156	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0810par0157	You can't say that in the Parliamentary General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0812par0158	I'm telling you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0810par0159	I'm not gonna learn manners from you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0812par0160	You'll learn!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0810par0161	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit09spe0813par0162	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0813par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0814par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0813par0006	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0814par0007	Mr. President, the congressman who was sitting at the power lines during my speech just now -- he's been transferred to detention -- several times, he said. I'm saying that you need to request, review, and apologize, and that's what we're asking, and that he should apologize openly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0813par0008	Let me see, I'll review the transcripts, and then we'll see what we can do. Well, we're in the QA now, Congressmans. We're ten minutes out. I'll have the questions in five minutes, and in the next five minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions. Mr. Rootsal, instead of Mr. Clumsy, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0815par0013	Mr. Secretary, it's 2:00 in the morning. Let's get a good result out of this. Veterans who graduated from primary school, secondary school and secondary school are granted the right to be appointed officers by the Law No. 502. Despite all our struggles, those who graduated from primary school, secondary school and secondary school were not granted the right to be appointed officers. Do you intend to conduct a study of the right of civil service to those of our fallen relatives who have graduated from elementary school, secondary school and secondary school? Again, is there a study to match the salaries of combat veterans and give their children a job? And again, amongst our fallen relatives, there are those who are struggling to make a living. With the economic conditions of the day taken into account, do you plan to make a improvement in salaries that are especially attached to their fallen parents?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0816par0016	Mr. Tor instead of Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0817par0017	Mr. President, my question is Mr. Finance Minister Naci Agbal. The interest and capital costs are the numbers I got from the budget bill. The interest costs are 51, 2018 estimated 71 billion liras in 2016. Capital costs were 70 billion dollars in 2017, while 2018 estimated $69.8 billion. As interest costs show a rising trend, capital costs show a falling trend. When we compare interest costs and capital costs, interest costs tend to exceed capital costs. Mr. Secretary, stop the increase in interest costs, even reset them, and let's give you a standing ovation. My question: With this investment budget, how are you going to prevent unemployment that exceeds 10 per cent? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0818par0021	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0819par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Will the staff working in the assistant service class be taken to the general management staff? Will the staff who graduated from college and worked in various units, such as the tea stove, be put on the general staff? Since subcontractors have been hired as workers, is there a study of the auto-management of employees in auxiliary services, if there is one, when will these studies be concluded? I'm asking these questions on behalf of the workers who work for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0820par0025	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0821par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister: Will Turkey's Coal Corporations, Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation, Turkey's Electric Transport Asş and so on be granted the transition to the status of KPSS, staffed workers, technicians, engineers to the status of employee 399/2? Will KPSS, staffed, titled employees be granted the right to transfer to contract official status in public economic initiatives? My second question is, will our private security personnel at the airport be included in the subcontractor law? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0822par0030	Thank you. Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0823par0032	Mr. Secretary, thousands of farm workers and farmers should be able to retire by providing enough payability to our citizens, who have no social security, who are underprivileged to pay premiums for social security, who are past the age of retirement in our country, who can't retire. We believe that the duty of the social state and the responsibility of the Turkish Parliament will support you, and will honor you when it is done. Second question: our hospitals are known to lack nurses. In 2018, do you plan to assign and appoint our nurses to cover the nursing shortage in hospitals?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0822par0034	Mr. Depboy, you've always been on the edge, we're out of time, but ask your question this time.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0824par0035	I really appreciate it. A few hours ago, the president of the High School Family Association called. A home previously owned and confiscated by the state has been transferred to this school, but no work has been done concerning maintenance and renovations, and the school family has to deal with all its problems. In most of our schools, more or less, there's a huge burden on the PTA and the parents. When will these be removed? Again, when will the promises made to the teachers waiting for the appointment be fulfilled? Anesthesiologists and technicians who have an important job in hospitals expect an appointment of more than 73,000 anaesthesia graduates who have suffered each year by the number of alumni folding and reduced staffs. Is there any study of this? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0825par0040	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0826par0041	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Koksal, they've made some assessments of the rights to autonomy regarding veterans and combat veterans. I know about these issues in part, but our friends at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy are doing a study on different financial and social rights. We got our notes from those studies. We'll share that with our Minister of the Family, hopefully. In the year 2018, Mr. Tor made an assessment that capital costs are lower than in 2017, and interest costs are increasing. You know, investment-quality expenditures in the budget are shown in two places. One is a capital expense pen, and the other is a capital transfer pen. From that point of view, we have earmarked an 85 billion-dollar budget for investment spending in 2018. It also has to say that in the year, especially as long as we have the means on the income side, in the years before this, we have always invested in investments, including in 2017, above initial grants. In that sense, in 2018, we will have support and zeal in 2018, as it has been at the point of securing more funding for public investments that will support our country's development, its growth. In terms of employment, you know, there have been about 1,350,000 people involved in employment in the last year. Thus, Turkey is one of the few countries in the post-global financial crisis 2009 that can continue to increase its employment. From that point of view, we've seen employment increase in about 6 million or 7 million over the last eight years, and that's one thing to say. But as a government, we also have an intense effort to lower unemployment rates. We have important efforts to support private sector investments, support production, support exports. With our President's participation, we will have a new support effort to increase employment in 2018, as explained in the Employment Company. In this framework, we, the government, will provide income tax payments with social security premiums, especially for those who will participate in employment for the first time. Again, in terms of young employment, disability employment and female employment, we will also have special, sectorally-based support for those who will participate in employment. In that respect, in 2018, hopefully we'll have to say that there will be support for the economy, that we're going to increase employment, that we're going to provide directly to companies who are producing jobs, that we're going to give them jobs, and that unemployment will go to lower levels. Mr. Agbaba asked a question about transitioning from the assistant service class to the general management service class and the subcontractor work. Again, Mr. Erdem, the transition of engineer employees to general administration services has brought up the subject of personnel working at the State Weather Squares. It has to be said that from time to time, staff legislation, the work of staff at different institutions in different institutions, is an expectation of our employees. In fact, these things need to go to a simplification. And hopefully we'll get some distance from this subcontractor arrangement -- I've already expressed it -- after we've done it quickly -- the things we all know about -- about the issues you're expressing -- about those issues. We have received our notes regarding Mr. Zeybek's assessment of the farmers, and we will provide the necessary support. Our Minister of Health has made a statement about the medical staff here. We, as the Ministry of Health, are doing the necessary work at the Ministry of Health, and even at university hospitals, to provide health care staff, especially nurses. Hopefully, we'll provide the supplies of the personnel needed here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0827par0050	Thank you. Members of the law, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the Article is accepted. MADDE 8- (1) Added to Law 5018 (I) and (II) public administrations; A) Payments to people who will be bought or employed for a period of no more than a month in the year, provided they are limited to their beelike work, B) Payment to those who have been bought part-time service under the legislation concerned, C) 5/6/1986 payment to students who have vocational education in candidates, apprentices and businesses under Article 25 of the Code for Professional Education No. 3308, ) The payment to temporary staff, issued under Article 4 (C), dated 14/7/1965 and under Article 657 of the Law of State Officers (C), The budgets (01.4) can not exceed the funds in the economic code (01.4) and cannot be invested in the economic code, except in other schemes of budgets (except in the transactions between them and the transfers made under the second joke of Article 6 of the Article 6), and cannot be transferred and cannot be spent overfunded. However, due to privatisation practices, the Minister of Finance is authorized to transfer the amount needed to pay for academic jury fees from those who have been terminated under the provision of Article 4 (C) of the Law under the sentence of Article 657 (C). (2) The transports on this Law (T) table can be obtained by the Council of Ministers with Karan on the proposal of the ministry on the condition that it should be subject to very urgent and mandatory conditions. The public administrations, which are included in Law No. 5018 (I) and (II), can employ permanent workers and temporary workers, dated 4/4/2007 and under Law 5620 (01.3) in the economic codes of their budget (02.3) and will not exceed the funds in the economic codes (02.3). The Minister of Finance is authorized to provide funds due to collective agreements on these workers, payment of information and severance pay, minimum wage and insurance premium increases. The economic codes mentioned in this joke cannot be paid for in any way (except between the transfers between the economic codes and between the units for these codes), as well as labour fees and/or overwork fees from other arrangements of the budget can't be paid. The restrictions on the transfer of funds in this joke do not apply to TBITAK on the condition that they be transferred from their budget arrangements. In addition to Law (4) 5018 (I) and (II) the expense authorities of public administrations are obliged to do business programmes on the basis of the grant provided by continuous workers and temporary workers in accordance with Law 5620, which they will employ for more work, not to overwork and/or overwork the next year due to extra work and/or overwork. There is no way to transfer funds to pay overtime and/or overwork fees, except for transfers related to the earthquake, fire, flood, landslide, rock falling, overwork due to overwork fees, according to the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which will be carried out due to avalanches and so on. (5) No international agreements can be made by public administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget, and no payment can be made under the name of membership fees, without the Finance Ministry's appropriate opinion on providing the necessary funding, except for international institutions, law and decrees. (6) The 5th joke sentence is not imposed on international agreements, laws and decrees by the Ministry of Economics and the Undersecretary of Treasury, including the payment of participation in international organisations (including the payment of participation in the Republic of Turkey). (7) The education and recreation facility, run by the central administration of the public administration, is covered by the costs of homes, day care homes, day care centers, sports facilities and so on, and revenues from the operating of these private facilities. In these areas, new employees will be employed for the first time in 2018 to be paid for the return capital and funds with the central management budget. (8) Private budgetary administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget take the necessary measures to spend their budgets "03.3-Road Expenses," "03.6- Representatives and Enlargement Expenses" and "03.7-Reservations, Real Estates, Rights Acquisitions, Maintenance and Responsibility Expensessions" in the economic code. The amount of funds to the regulations referred to by these administrations will not exceed 10 per cent of the initial budgets added under Article 6 of the Law as part of its fifth joke. However, in the event of need, the Finance Minister is authorized to transfer more than 10 per cent of the initial grants of these economic codes and to add funds as part of Article 6 of this Law as part of its fifth joke. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 8. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0828par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 8 of the 2018 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute the Veterans' House. While we, as representatives of the nation, were being sent to this parliament as a representative of the nation, the expectation of us was especially at the point of solving the problems of the nation. What people expect of us, of course, is not political infertility, but of course, what the public expects of us, of course, is a fight, not a noise. I would especially like to emphasize again that in this difficult process of our country, we must protect our national and spiritual unity, each member of parliament under this roof, as representatives of the nation, that every member of parliament must understand with a truly important consciousness. In this sense, we've come to be the voice of the Turkish nation, to be breathful, to bring problems to the agenda, to address them, and most importantly, our fallen relatives, who have laid down their lives for their country -- they're our martyrs' trust -- and we've done the necessary work with our proposals from the stand over and over again to address the problems of our veterans, but there are still points that haven't been resolved. I'd like to repeat myself about all of this. Since it's the end of the year, it can be seen as an evaluation of the last two years. Even if it is called, there are shortcomings, there are inequalities among our veterans. It's a very rational assessment, and you can make a table that can be put in the middle. Since our combat veterans, Korean veterans, there are differences among our Cypriot veterans from their salary to their rights, these need to be dealt with urgently. The inequality created by the level of our veterans' limb loss, regardless of the degree of their body loss, must be resolved. Our martyr relatives and relatives of our veterans must be given a staff priority and the staff must be increased. Of course, the staff has been given, and we'll see what's done, but if it's enough, we'll all decide together. We have to be able to say that if there's a cry coming from somewhere that's not enough, there's still a shortage. Those who were injured during the fight against terrorism have been fighting for about 15 years. There's been a decree issued in a law order, and we think it's for our veterans, but it's just a breach in the wall. When he really applied, perhaps 2 percent of them were named veterans. Again, the heroes of our country, we have no law against our rangers. As the National Movement Party Group, we have a law proposal for this, and it must be evaluated by all party groups. We've brought it up on the agenda, and there are details in our proposal for the adoption of a ranger's law on this matter. Some of our rangers, who have an average family of eight, receive $1.510. They live in very difficult conditions. It is not enough for their families, and every night the wife of that house leaves her house, not to return in the morning. These are our heroes. In particular, it's our duty to immediately adopt a law on our rangers and to work to improve their rights, their salaries. Our execution and protection officers do not have as much rights or job security as a staffed officer for their employees of 4/B. There must be equality in this matter. These friends of ours, who are in the security service, are asking to be taken from the general services class to the safety class, which is a legitimate request. We talked about national projects in this budget. We all know that national projects in particular will contribute to the country's productive economy. However, when you say national projects, it is imperative that the staff of our brothers, who will serve here, should be opened. Our brothers, who have graduated from those parts in particular, have a problem with unemployment, related to agriculture, agriculture, and water products. If these projects are to be moved on, then we need to do this: graduates of the water products department, agricultural engineers, and also food engineers, veterinary physicians, especially those who specialize in their professions. Three hundred and four graduates of social security, at least at the June 2018 appointment, require that many - 3,000 positions as a number, which requires sensitivity. The Turkish nation is prosperous, the Turkish nation doesn't want much. What does he want? The minimum really wants to meet where we meet at the point of what needs to be done. Believe me, if we step out of here in that sense, there will be a step in the Turkish nation as well. It's our nation's demands again to bend the 35-year-old requirement for public recruitment. Why? They also have a right to be stretched at least a year or two, because they have grown old because they have not been appointed for many years and have waited. The service classes of bailiffs serving as assistants in the Ministry of Justice class are a huge injustice. The bailiffs who carry out their duties in terms of duty and regular service must be present in the general administrative service class, such as the clerk, driver, and other officers who do similar work with them. In this regard, the Minister of Justice has announced that they will move the bailiffs to the general administrative service class in the presentation of the Justice Department's budget. The good news is that 5,500 bailiffs have delighted our friends and family. I would like to point out again that we will be followers of the Minister's promise. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I would like to say that we are especially concerned about the continuity of the state, that this is the element of our nation's trust in the state, and that it must be carried out by another minister who has made a promise made by a minister. There's a prerequisite for the class of justice and the class of justice. In the general sense, the faculty graduates, our fellow graduates, have to be assigned and assigned to their departments so that they can actually perform their professions, serve the country and the nation as happy employees. He is again seeking the rights of 4,995 victims who have been interviewed in May and then recruited as a cleaning worker for İSKUR. A study of the necessary arrangement is essential. Again, in the same way, the Syrian students... look, 3.5 million Syrian refugees have arrived. Even though we call them guests, the permanentity of the guest... I mean, they're not supposed to be called residents anymore, they're settled in our country. In this sense, the wealth of the Turkish nation's heart again, the desire to be with the underdog, of course, is of great importance. We have teachers who teach, who work for them. Our teachers need to be looked after at at the end of the project for 6,000 KPSS and the teacher assigned to projects, especially the integration of the Turkish educational system for Syrian students; there, again, should be no reason to create an unhappy crowd. Another thing is our disabled teacher candidates. Again, we're talking about an audience of about 4,000 teachers. We're all here, on those special days, having really emotional conversations about our special people, but I would say that it's our duty here to give each one of us the rights instead of making emotional speeches. We're sitting in these seats with the consequences of the Turkish nation. Each of us needs to measure if we can actually sleep when we put our heads on the pillow at night. In this sense, I would like to remind you that a handful of disabled teachers have not yet been appointed, and that the Prime Minister's statement about January is that 500 teachers have been appointed. I think all of our disabled teachers should get jobs in their majors. We must consider the demands of our teachers; we entrust our pupils to them. Every time we're up here on the stand, as the National Movement Party Group, we've got the law proposals, we've got the question motions. When the need is 100,000 teachers, it's impossible to understand why 20,000 teachers are being bought. At least 40,000 teachers are required at the point of receiving. Again, it's about midwife nurses -- especially because there's a lot of demand here -- in the villages where they serve: they are also forced to work as cleaning staff because they are single in the villages where they serve, as well as their duties as pregnancy tracking, baby and child monitoring, family planning counselling, vaccinating children, and teaching health care. There must be improvements in the incomplete nature of surrogates who have no marriage permit, maternity leave, or even death permit. Our surrogates, such as 4/C, must be placed in a contract position of 4/B or 45/A. I'm sure you all can actually do all these evaluations. Every one of our deputies, every one of our friends, needs to take care of them. The plague of our nation is ours. In that sense, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0829par0090	Thank you, Your Grace. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0830par0094	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our agenda is budget. Opposition representatives list their concerns about the budget, their thoughts, and naturally the ruling MPs tell them what they're doing. I'm here today to give you a different view of the AKP. Dear friends, the AKP is not just a political party, but a structure that has made the country a party state in 15 years. For 15 years now, he has sometimes formed a large staff through harvest, sometimes by transfer. This staff, the AKP, does not just consist of MPs sitting here or parallel governments and advisers in the palace. Side pencils, nutritional academics, clown TV, kiss-ass artillery, fat popper, thick neck boss, remote control judge...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0831par0098	Watch your mouth. Watch your language in the neighborhood.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0832par0099	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0830par0100	...the victim's prosecutor, the staff mob, the cone, the whole building.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0833par0101	Mr. President, if you'd be so kind as to invite me to speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0834par0102	Keep your mouth shut.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0835par0103	Mr. President, invite him to a clean language, a clean one.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0104	When you say AKP, you think of a little bit more than a political line.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0837par0105	Let's speak in a clear language, Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0106	The AKP is literally a party of zigzags.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0838par0107	Watch your mouth, watch your mouth.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0108	The people on this staff, who said what, who's describing the AKP, let's ask them, which AKP?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0838par0109	▪ Not the parallel state, but the president of this country.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0110	Dear lawmakers, look, I'll give you a few examples. One, those who sit at the palace table and defame the honor of the mother of Ataturk.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0839par0112	Get out of here!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0113	...or the ones who wrote "Aziz Ataturk" in the Memorial notebook?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0840par0114	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0841par0115	Who defies the mother of Ataturk?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0116	The ones who went out to the Haram media and called the spiritual daughter of Ataturk, the commoner of Çankaya, or the one who called him Mustafa Kemal?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0842par0117	Tell the exports, tell the exports.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0843par0118	Speak with a clean tongue.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0119	We'll be official historians of the palace and drag them into the Ataturk statues like dead dogs. Are they the ones who call it the dog carcass? The ones who hang the Ataturk poster at the post-inflicted headquarters?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0844par0121	Look at you! Look at you! That's politics?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0845par0122	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0123	When you're mayor of the city, you don't have to stand up for yourself on November 10th. Are they the ones who say, "When it comes to power, do they respect the Memorial?"
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0845par0124	Congressman, by the way, I don't hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0125	The woman who makes a joke cannot go out on the street. The one who brings the rape law in the Parliament in the middle of the night or the one who withdraws the law when Turkey stands up?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0846par0126	Allah! Allah!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0847par0127	The Republican People's Party has a Vice President like you, burned down. You can't be in power forever.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0836par0128	The one who lets out those who kick women in shorts, the one who comes down from the boat of Kadıköy, the one who stares at the girl who smokes in the cafe, the one who walks on the young man, the one who says, "We don't interfere with the way of life, the way of dress."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0848par0130	Your Vice President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0849par0131	Anatolia sees you, Anatolian. Anatolia won't accept such a mouth.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0850par0132	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0851par0133	The men who plundered the valley of Storm, the Ayder that God has given us, are different. We have defiled Ayder, we have disgraced him. Is that what they say?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0850par0135	Congressmans, please, I don't hear anything.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0851par0136	The wife prime minister, the great philanthropist Reza Zarrab, who was declared a hero in the media using the Turkish flag as a fund, who paid the four ministers the prizes of the two ministers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit10spe0850par0138	Congressman, I don't hear the speaker, please... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0850par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018 and with the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill of Computational Accounts. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Mr. Special, do you have a statement to make?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0852par0006	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0850par0007	Here's a minute from your seat.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0852par0010	Mr. President, thank you. Later in the budget, later in the day, we're in an environment where the working conditions are difficult and everyone's nervous because they're not planned a little bit right. A speaker of the Republican People's Party is speaking on the stand. There's a fiction to his speech -- we've studied it inside -- in this fiction, he can say the most uncomfortable and most disturbing words that I've ever said for another reason. The statements are clear, if there are insults, criminal cases, defamation, compensation cases or other issues, but it is absolutely impossible for us to accept a method in which the speaker's speech has been interrupted during his speech on the stand. But is it the words of the Justice and Development Party that are not insulted by any member of parliament or by any member of your party, but by the names close to the Justice and Development Party, or by the Party of Justice and Development? When I came up to this and answered...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0850par0013	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0852par0014	In response, you come out of this without taunting about the answer, and you say: "None of what they say in the first part connects our party, and we condemn it." In fact, that would be a relief for Turkey, but I would like to express to you that it is not right to take fiction as an insult to MPs or the general president, the leader of the party, in the name of the Justice and Development Party, by the statements of those who speak there and those who appear together. The statements are open, studyable, and the assessment of the issue can be done either in parliament or in legal ways. However, we cannot accept the interruption and termination of a character's speech. In that sense, the next time the speaker comes to the stand, he will express his gratitude for his speech. We demand further negotiations.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0850par0015	Mr. Special, if we have the same view that we just had here, I'll have the same attitude because I'm responsible for running this House in a certain order, I'm responsible for this one. Two: I've read the preacher - and I've read the witnesses - speak in a clean language. I've repeatedly warned him. At this point, in that noisy environment, and despite my warnings, there's nothing I can do about it that I can do about it. If it's done, I'll do it again, you know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0853par0018	Mr. President, I'll tell you this, then, to the report. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0854par0019	The preacher's gonna apologize, and he's gonna come out and apologize.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0853par0020	It's only natural that you don't continue the session when you're banging on the seat covers and all that noise, and we have no objection to that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0855par0021	So, what is it that you're criticizing?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0853par0022	He'll never speak again. There have been many threats like this here, I answer to him, I express him, your attitude.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0855par0023	What does that have to do with me? You're criticizing me for interrupting?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0853par0024	Mr. President, I'm already bringing you a review.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0855par0025	Okay, thank you. Mr. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP, please come to the stand to complete your speech.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0032	Now, dear friends, now, of course, I've made my speech in fiction, and so has our Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0857par0033	We'll make you a fiction, you'll see!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0034	Those words, unfortunately, were spoken. You should know that I didn't mean to insult any of my fellow lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0857par0035	You're insulting everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0036	There's no insult to any of you in any of his sentences. But, dear friends, look, I'm the representative of the main opposition party, so I'm coming out here for that purpose, and there's nothing more natural than saying things you don't like.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0857par0037	You're the Vice President. It's not like you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0858par0038	You don't have to insult me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0039	At the beginning of my word, I said that the opposition MPs were going to defend them, and the ruling lawmakers, naturally, would. You'll naturally defend your actions, and I'll have to present the contradictions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0857par0040	Use clean language.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0041	I don't know if you like it or not, but I have a responsibility, and I have a responsibility to my constituents, and I have to fulfill that responsibility.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0857par0042	You won't get anywhere by insulting me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0043	Now, most of you, look at the insults you just made when I was talking on this stand, for God's sake, look at the transcripts, look at the threats, look at the way you look at me after the conversation is over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0859par0044	That's insulting. If you insult me, everyone will insult you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0045	I say again, look, I repeat, I have no insult to any congressman, no insult to anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0860par0046	You're generalizing, give me a name, it's open.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0047	Guys, read the report. Now, I'm talking about the contradictions that the AKP has made in a fiction in the past period.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0861par0048	Oh, it's up to you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0049	Of course it's up to me, that's my job.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0862par0050	What is a parallel palace state? What's it got to do with the budget?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0863par0051	Congressmans, please, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0052	I say: Look, there are also those who have walked around and booed the State Gardener, and then there are those who say, "This is a symbol of the State Garden man, he's an example of opposition." This is a criticism and criticism of Mr. State Gardener.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0864par0053	You're still going on, Veli Agha, you're going on and on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0054	Also, look, again, the state of Israel is our friend. There are those who say, "Israel is a state of terror."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0865par0055	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0866par0056	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0057	My friends, I'm not saying this -- this is your spokesman's word -- that's what Omar Çelik said, Omar Çelik said that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0865par0058	Let the PKKK not lay down their arms. Kılıçdaroglu said. Then why did he tell you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0867par0059	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0856par0060	Also, look, you're not my brother. It's called "The Red carpet."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0868par0061	You went arm in arm with him, didn't you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0869par0062	The PKKK said not to leave a gun. Kılıçdaroglu said, "Tell me that too."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0870par0063	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0871par0064	"The YPG is not a terrorist organization," said Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0065	Friends, now you're saying that we don't accept PYD. I don't know if this is blasphemy or insult. Is that blasphemy?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0873par0066	It's not like you have that kind of sensitivity. You have that kind of sensitivity? Then tell the president.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0874par0067	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0068	Look, I'm saying that there are people who have agreed to the PYD and welcome Salih Müslim to Ankara, and now the PYD is our red line. Friends, I can give you more examples: I can tell you about Russia, about Assad, about the United States, about Iran, about Libya.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0875par0070	What did Kilicdaroglu say about YPG?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0876par0071	Yeah, brother, criticize the budget, the budget. Tell me the 8th article. Just tell me what happened in the 8th article.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0072	Look, let me tell you something, this may be your political understanding, you may be looking at the polls, but dear friends, I'm going to share a few more thoughts with you. But I'll give you credit, you've got a few issues, maybe that'll be hard on you. Please warn me if there are insults. I have to hand in your consistency on a few matters, your right to do so. About what? Your problems with the secular democratic republic, your comments about Ataturk. I'll have to tell you when these are on the record, my dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0877par0073	Is Ataturk your property?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0074	Look, ever since you came to power, you've been secular at every opportunity...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0877par0075	Is it your property, Ataturk?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0076	It's not my property, it's our pleasure that you like Ataturk, it's the property of the CHP Group, not the MPP Group, but the entire nation, no doubt about it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0877par0077	Yeah. Ataturk would have kicked you out of the CHP!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0872par0078	Look, you're dealing with republican values to wear down their earnings, look back. Dear friends, I say that the goal of 2023 is to deal with the republic, to destroy it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0878par0080	If Ataturk comes from the grave, he'll have your head first!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0879par0081	He wants to destroy the republic that supports the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0880par0082	Congressman, I can't hear the speaker.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0881par0083	He's full of shit.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0882par0084	You support terrorist governments who want to destroy the Republic, then you speak here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0883par0085	At a meeting about the destruction of the Ataturk Cultural Center, let's ask those who mentioned Westernism, if they could raise a world-class actor, a guitarist? Maybe you don't know, maybe you don't remember, look, I'll tell you who grew up in the Republic of Berlin, Tokyo, New York, Vienna, the hall is the child of this republic, where the balcony is applauded for minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0884par0086	The terrorists are having a picnic. Those who call it a picnic are trying to destroy the republic.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0885par0087	Don't send a tourist." He said. You go tell that to the president. America has already complained about Turkey! It's like you're sensitive or something.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0886par0088	Mr. Dish...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0887par0089	The award-winning pianist, Idil Biret, Suna Kan, is the work of this republic. Yasar Kemal, who was born in a poor village of Adana, and is translated into the languages of the world with his novels, is the republic. Leyla Gencer, whose posters were hung on the buildings of Italy, is Turkey. Saint Sancar, a Nobel laureate from a village in Mardin province, is the Republic of Saint Sancar, the pride of all Turkey. (HPP) Maybe you don't know what the Republic is growing, but we do, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0888par0090	Does anyone object to that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0889par0091	Our President is the son of this nation. These are men, but not our President? Oh, for crying out loud!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0887par0092	Look, dear lawmakers, if you're taking care of these, I congratulate you, if you like them. If you love Zülfü Livaneli, Orhan Kemal, I congratulate you, I have nothing to say. But, look, guys, there's people on the networks that we call the advocacy media, and I'm going to tell you that, and you're going to be angry again.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0890par0093	Tell them about the public TV. It's like he's a journalist!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0887par0094	See what he says: "Deve piss is a cure." There's one teacher who says, "It's the ignorant people who keep the country going." There's only one vice president. Friends, the practice of music is forbidden to rest." He has a fetish.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0891par0095	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0892par0096	Go tell him. What do they have to do with the budget? What does it have to do with matter?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0887par0097	Look, take it, blame it, and blame it. I'm glad. I'm glad you resent it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0892par0098	What does that have to do with matter?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0887par0099	Look, friends, a 6-year-old can get married.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0892par0100	What do they have to do with matter? Go tell him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0893par0101	What do we care? What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0894par0102	And what do we have to do with this?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0103	That's what I'm saying. There's a chancellor who says shaking hands with a woman is scarier than holding fire. Did I appoint the Rector? I appointed you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0896par0105	But why are you talking here because they told you to? Does anyone approve of that?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0106	▪ The roundness of the world is a mason's fabrication. The world is flat. Is it my Youth Arms? The father who sent his daughter to school in his pants, throw your daughter into hell. There is a teacher who says, "Let's condemn her together."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0897par0107	He has nothing to do with AK PARTY.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0898par0108	What does it have to do with AK PARTY?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0109	You think you're a woman until you're near a man without a beard, God forbid you go into a lot of thoughts. There's a teacher who says, [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, look, you have wronged this country.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0899par0113	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please. Because I don't hear it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0114	You've done a lot of injustice, but the injustice you've done in the field of culture is far greater. You've made this country barren. Everyone thinks like me, everyone wants to be like me. You've insulted everything in this country that's grown.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0900par0115	You have it, we don't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0116	For years, you have insulted diplomats who have honored Turkey both in the world and in the Middle East.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0900par0117	Don't spoil it!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0118	These are the people who didn't bow down to the ASALA terrorist organization, they gave their lives.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0901par0119	You gave them the men who scratched their bellies. The men who scratch your belly are MPs here. Is it too much for you?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0120	In your practices, it is the focus of custody to judges who have merit due to violations of the law. You said, "You have appointed judges to stand in their place."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0901par0122	That's who you think you're insulting. It was in the chest every election.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0123	You accused the generals raised by the Turkish Armed Forces of coupting, and it's a good thing we didn't go to war in their time. You said, "They've bombed this Parliament, we have 250 martyrs."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0902par0125	And you kept the bowl. You're doing politics by coming with the documents they give you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0126	You deposed the grown actors, replaced the wrestling referee as manager of the city theaters.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0902par0127	You're doing politics with their documents. Tell that to someone else.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0128	There's a lot of samples. You appointed the zoo director to TUBITAK, you appointed the president of the Tennis Federation to the State Department. You've destroyed everyone who doesn't think like you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0902par0130	With their tape, your president became president.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0903par0131	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0132	I'll give you a few examples. You run the government. The police chief of 81 districts has been released from the district. Half the governors, half the governors, two-thirds of the generals have come out, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0904par0134	You're done, sit down!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0895par0135	We're not responsible for this, you're responsible for this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0904par0136	Sit down!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0905par0137	You're the one who's with him right now. You're the one who went in arm in arm.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0906par0138	You still play their drums. You still are.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0907par0139	Your time is up, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0908par0140	Whether you're angry or screaming, it's your responsibility.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0909par0141	You're talking about information from the police!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0907par0142	Mr. Agha, your time is up.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0908par0143	You're responsible for this.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0910par0145	That's what you'd look like!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0911par0146	The president's salivated the podium, so I'd like to disinfect it, please.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0912par0147	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0913par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the 8th article of the central management budget bill. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we divide the world from the north to the south or east to the west, there's always a situation. When we divide from east to west, the rich West, the happy West, the developed West, there, the democratic principles developed by the West; back East or south; the poor South, the South, which is not developed, but we face a rich, developed, cultural, art-and-scientific north. Of course, with this level of development, there is no doubt the relationship of democracy, freedom, equality in these countries, so we see that development has a direct connection to democracy, to freedom. Now, almost all the backward countries in the world have one thing in common, one feature they have in common; what is that? In order to maintain their personal power, we see that there are a number of leaderships that are estranged from democracy, freedom, law, who place all blame on external forces, who make themselves indispensable to their country. So almost all of these countries don't have democracy; they have totalitarian governments, they have one-man regimes. So without me, there's no country. Without me, the country will be destroyed, the country will go away, and only with me can you continue the country. On the contrary, the leaders who claim that they are leading their country to collapse, disintegration, destruction. Now, the specific example of this, perhaps, is that we could explain it with South Korea, North Korea, or there were examples of East Germany, West Germany in the past. Now, the same nation, the same culture, the same faith, the same history, we look at two different states that live in the same geography, all in common, we look at their language, their culture, their beliefs, their history, but their level of development, for example, when we compare North Korea with South Korea, what is the income level of North Korea? The annual income per person is $1,300. But we're looking at the level of development of South Korea, which has the same culture, the same belief, the same history, and the same geography, like $28,000 per person per year. We've seen this in the past for East Germany and West Germany. So, where does the difference come from? Look, dear friends, these actually remind us of something, so it kind of brings up the situation in our country. In our country today, workers, shopkeepers, farmers, workers are crying blood. A population of nearly 40 million lives below the poverty line. For example, 61 percent of society, according to the IPSOS November survey, are not happy, not happy, not peaceful; they do not look to the future with confidence. I mean, most of the community thinks things are getting worse, and they're looking at your future like this. A society that does not feel happy now and does not look forward to the future, and in a system where almost one-quarter of young people are unemployed, exchanges in an economic order show constant pressure to rise. So, what's with the unhappiness, the bad going on? Why is this happening? Now, to improve things in the economy, to improve public welfare levels, to have investments, we need two basic things first: domestic and foreign investors -- domestic and foreign. Now, what does the investor have to do to invest? There needs to be trust in the country, democracy, and more importantly, judicial independence. So that's what the investor who wants to invest is doing, when the factories are opening up, jobs are forming, and the country's overall prosperity will rise. Is there such an environment? Unfortunately, this environment does not exist in Turkey. So, the foreign investor, in the independent and liberal democratic system of the country where he's going to take his money, first thinks, "Is there law in this country?" Is there an institution that I'll apply for tomorrow when anything happens to me, or beyond that, can my property, my property, my fortune be seized? Now, of course, an investor will think about it before he makes his decision, but more importantly, an investor who believes that every decision is between one person's two lips would never invest in a country like this. Well, why wouldn't he? After all, the investor doesn't look to the future with confidence. So, who's paying the price for all this, so who's paying the price for poverty, for lack of investment, unemployment, or lack of money? The public's paying. So why are we paying for it? Now, there are two things: one is that the interests of the people and the interests of political power conflict. Why does it conflict? Since the country will grow in an environment where all the investments that I'm talking about, democracy, freedom, judicial independence, unemployment will be reduced, it's in the interest of the public, and the public demands it. Is that what the political government wants? He doesn't want political power. Why? Because in such an environment, political power is at risk of losing power, and interests are at odds. So, what is necessary for political power? What is necessary for political power is to maintain its own power. And that's how it's going to work, like a state of emergency, for example. Why does the state of emergency need power? For it will be much easier to rule, and it will be much easier to rule the land by law, and to silence the people. Look, dear friends, every decent economist, every economist, even TUSIAD is saying something clear, and I'm sure the majority of Congress will agree. What's he saying? If the State of Emergency is removed, the currency will fall, and another thing will fall, and interest will fall, he says. This is said by all economists, economists, and an institution like TUSIAD, screaming. I don't know as much as TÜSİAD, but the richest people in Turkey, who are the best in the business, clearly say so. Is it true? Right. So, why don't the AKP and Erdogan take it off? What's the reason? Because the law requires decrees. However, the laws and the State of Emergency were brought in for three months. Why was he brought in for three months? They were going to clean up the remains of the coupkers in three months, and they made it clear. Three months go by, another three months go by, another three months go by, and then a year and a half go by, and we're still being ruled by the law. Now, to keep this going, the government needs something, so it needs something to keep the State of Emergency going. What's that? There will always be operations, and there will be enemies of the outside, and there will be enemies of the interior, and there will always be people of the land of Sakaryah. There are separatists inside, there are Kurds, the country can be divided at any moment. Now, through this perception, he has to convince the public. To be honest, he can fool the public to a certain extent. I'm afraid it also creates perception operations. As we create this, the State of Emergency will continue to govern and remain in power with laws under law. Self - worth MPs, 80 million of our people are paying the price; poverty, unemployment, and worsening. This is not in the interest of the public, but it is in the interest of the current AKP government. This system, this extraordinary state, the continuation of custody over this law, is therefore one of the most important things that feeds power. This won't go on for long, and when we look back, we know that in the end, in front of those who run the country, they're exposed to the public, they've lost their dignity in public opinion.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0914par0159	Only a month's investment, $3.4 billion, October, a month.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0913par0160	I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0915par0162	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0916par0166	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. As we approach the end of budget talks, it should actually end earlier in the framework that we've programmed, but unfortunately, it's only today that we're trying to insult, insult, insult, insult, and insult a party that is the longest-term powered party in the history of the Republic, as a representative of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as a representative of national will, as a matter of 15 years. Not just today, but when we're talking about important issues, one comes up, systematically provoking lawmakers in the middle of the night, playing with their feelings, insulting them, trying to stretch out the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Look, the speaker who just came in, he's on the stand, he's on the mike. I'm reading from the report: our daily budget. Opposition representatives list their concerns, concerns about the budget. Naturally, the ruling MPs are telling you what they're doing, and I'd like to give you a different assessment of the AKP today, so I'm in your presence. I'm reading this by changing the next paragraph there, which I'm reading by changing the AK PARTY, which is exactly the same: the CHP is not just a political party, it's a structure that has made the country a party state for many years before 1946. For many years, he has sometimes formed a large staff through harvesting, sometimes through transfers. This staff is not just members of lawmakers sitting here or advisors. He's got a pen, a nutritional scholar, a clown TV man, a kiss-ass artilleryman, a fat popper, a thick neck boss, a remote control judge. These are the words of a political party represented in Turkey by 364 MPs at the will of the nation from November 3rd of 2002. I also saw professors in this country who called university rectors "the army" at the university higher education board. I also saw the main opposition party leader who said, "The finger cut off by the city will not be hurt" during the closing trial against the EC PARTI in 2008. A restraining order against 79 people has been filed against 39 active lawmakers, one of which is me. We looked and looked, and according to Article 2 of the Law on Taxes of Institutions, which we changed in the Plans and Budget Commission, I am declared a political ban. Can you imagine, with what they got from Google, we've been through the process of closing a party? But at that time there was a political party that said, "The finger cut by the city will not hurt." During the time of 358 MPs in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 27, 1997, there was a main opposition party that did not elect the president, held the Supreme Court on guard, applied to the Constitutional Court and subcontracted the e-mutation on April 27th. We've been there. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After him, I won't be president of the political party, who said, "I won't be president." We also saw the leaders of the political party the next day, who were the presidents of the political party, who said, "I will not be president." From now on, there will be no more coups in this country. If you say, "Tank," I'll go up to the tank first. After that, there were political party presidents watching things like a series of adventure movies in a house, running out of tanks. On that day, 10 MPs, 12 Republican People's Party MPs, were here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, along with the MPs of the National Movement Party, along with the AK PARTI MPs, who resisted the coups, shielded their breasts and told the coupgers to stop.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0917par0174	Is that a clean line, Mr. President? Is that clean language?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0918par0175	What the hell? When someone's standing in the tunnels...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0919par0176	What happened? Why are you picking on me? Did you have to?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0920par0177	What happened?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0921par0178	Why are you talking in there?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0922par0179	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0923par0180	As a result of the strong will of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the morale of the coupgers is broken, it's over, but here we stand and give the coupters 100 MPs... There were MPs and nations here who showed that our fellow members of the EC PARTI would not be in the squares until the morning, and not in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or Ankara, but in the morning, those precious deputies of our nation who had been on a democracy watch with their nation, who had been united with the people of this great nation, who stood up to the coup, who stood up to their chests, and that no one could ever be struck again in this country, but there were no other who stood up to insult them today, by insulting the context of the sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0924par0182	He didn't tell the MPs.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0923par0183	He's the congressman's... It may be that those who failed to enter the hearts of the people during the time of the AK PARTI rule, who failed to rule this country with their votes, their legal votes, their mother's milk, unfortunately, with insults or with the military or with other powers...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0925par0184	They said, "Not without blood."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0923par0185	... A political party that strives to come to power cannot be a representative of democracy, it cannot be a representative of the republic at all because the republic was founded through representatives of the national will, not through the Armed Forces. Lawmakers in this country have demonstrated the will and the will to establish the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0926par0186	They're in jail too.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0923par0187	...but if you ignore the elected President, the Republican People's Party contradicts the republic's general values, conflicting democracy with the military's power, the power of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Chief of Staff' e-mutation and Constitutional Court's orders. Just as the values, artists, actors, singers, singers, scientists, the values of the republic, we need to see that those who say some different things are the ones that appeared in the Republic. We don't accept any of those things, but he appeared in your time about those who were told. Representatives of the will, who have received 50 per cent of the will from the nation, who say, "The government is a free country." It is not appropriate for lawmakers to accuse us of such unjust accusations as this. We have to watch our language here. This Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, has been a veteran twice; one in the Battle of Salvation, one in the treacherous coup attempt on July 15th. This is the veteran of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's a veteran sitting across from me, Haci Bayram Türkoglu, a veteran of the Veteran Assembly who was injured in the coup attempt on July 15th. (APPLAUSE) By making simultaneous metaphors to this Veteran Assembly, underestimating them, simplifying them... by watching tanks on TV and running from the front of the tank, these MPs put their lives on the line, shielded their bodies, stood in front of the tanks. No one has the right to insult lawmakers who have prevented the coup, especially the 26th term Parliament, and no one has the right to speak out. We may have political statements, we may not like them, but I would especially like to share with you, our nation, that I have expressed this kind of insulting behavior, insulting words to the V.A. MPs, that I refer to as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been a veteran for the 2nd time. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0927par0191	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0928par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0927par0193	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0928par0194	Mr. President, Mr. Elitas had an option, they didn't use speeches on behalf of the group, he used one of them to speak for the rights of the group, and he made strong criticisms for ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0929par0196	He said less of the same. I thought it wasn't heavy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0930par0197	He returned what you said, return it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0931par0198	I thought it wasn't heavy. I thought it wasn't heavy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0929par0199	I thought it wasn't heavy.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0932par0200	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0933par0201	We want to take advantage of that.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0934par0202	I thought you said there was no insult.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0932par0203	Congressman, I don't hear you, please. Yeah...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0935par0205	If I had a choice like that, I'd have a ten minute, a five minute, but you know there's no word in our group. I want an answer by leaving the time to your appreciation.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0932par0206	I'll give you two minutes, I can't give you anything else.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0935par0207	Well, suit yourself.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0936par0208	I thought you said there was no insult, no criticism.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0937par0209	I thought you said there were no insults.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0938par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0939par0212	What, did he touch it? Free, did he touch it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0215	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Elitaş, took the report, read the report, but twisted the report badly. I know what I heard, what it says in the report. The Justice and Development Party is not just a structure of lawmakers, presidents, palaces, and parallel cabinets; its artillery is a mechanism with its popper, clown commentator. When he told of a report, he turned around and called it a clown.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0941par0216	It's all about the AK PARTY nation, and it's actually describing it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0217	...it's a myth, and it doesn't suit a group of vice presidents. We answer to the author, we pay the price, but this twist is not for a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0942par0218	Well, those speeches look good on the Vice President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0219	Second: You quoted someone who's working on his life right now, you know, e-magnition, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but then when we called it the conspiracy of the tape and challenged it as special life, your president stood up and said, "What's special?" General, general. He said, we owe it to you to remind you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Other than that, you're giving the rights to lawmakers in the position of the Republican People's Party on the night of the coup, and when I came out here, when I gave that speech, I told our president that I had spoken on the phone before I did, that his order was to take over Parliament, the elected government, and that we would resist the coupgers until the end. Until the end of my words... those words are very important to me throughout history... but those words are used with the knowledge and instructions of Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0943par0223	Where was he, himself?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0224	The question is clear: Where was the general president?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0943par0225	Why? Where was he?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0944par0226	He went home to greet the tanks.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0227	But when the coup board wants all the leaders' HTS records for that night, the Prime Minister hiding in a tunnel...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0943par0229	Where was he?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0945par0230	It was life-threatening, a direct attack on the Prime Minister. Kılıçdaroğlu was not struck.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0231	...someone hasn't left the hangar for four hours, but has requested HTS recordings...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0946par0233	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0940par0234	Mr. President, it would be so unfair, I'd like a moment. That would be so unfair, I'd like to ask you a minute over ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0947par0235	There was no one in the hangar, don't slander me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0948par0236	The tanks didn't clear the Prime Minister's path.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0949par0237	Why are you yelling, he's telling the truth, he was in the tunnel.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0950par0238	The truth hurts, it hurts.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0951par0239	But it's not fair, I'll give you a minute, but don't call it unfair.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0240	Please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0951par0241	Wait a minute. Please finish it, complete it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0243	Okay.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0953par0244	He didn't even show his color, he didn't let me know where he stood.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0245	I'll make it very clear that when you hear where this is coming from, you're in a state of panic.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0954par0246	Why would we panic? You're slandering me, slandering me. What you're saying right now is slander.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0247	If you're not afraid of what I have to say, listen.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0955par0248	We're not afraid.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0249	One, you've said the most shocking things for us, but no one's walked to the stand, tried to cut off your rights, didn't actually attack. We answer with words because this is Parliament. Our coup commission asked for HTS records to determine where all the leaders were and what they were doing that night, who they were meeting with; you assigned them to head the coup commission, and now, the president denied this request. What are you afraid of? You all know where Kemal Kilicdaroğlu is.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0956par0251	He escaped from the tank, from the tank. Why didn't he go down on the tank?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0252	You saw him the next day. We said, "Let's ask those who are hiding somewhere, those who fled to Georgia, those who came when the blow calmed down." We said, "You didn't allow them."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0957par0253	There's no running away to Georgia. Don't slander me. You're slandering me, no one's running away.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0952par0254	Look, facts have a habit of showing up sooner or later. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And you'll be embarrassed when the truth comes out. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0958par0259	You slander, and do not slander. It wasn't in the hangar, you're slandering me.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0959par0260	Mr. President, Ismail Tamer is handing over to me to speak in favor of himself.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0960par0261	Okay. On behalf of Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş will speak for him. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0961par0269	Dear friends, look...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0962par0270	But like the zoning change, the plot changes, and Ishmael took five minutes of Tamer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0961par0271	...Mr. Kilicdaroglu says -- surely when playing with his grandchildren -- that's when the tanks are spoken of, the tanks are small, and if there's a fight, I'll climb over the tank.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0963par0272	Toy tank!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0964par0273	He's doing the right thing, he's doing the right thing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0965par0274	He thinks tanks are paper, he thinks tanks are paper.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0966par0275	But it's coming from the airport, the tanks are big. At that moment, he's going through the tanks, going to the mayor's house. Now, Mr. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım. Mr. Prime Minister, it's 10:19 p.m., we're on the phone. Mr. Prime Minister, what's the situation? From what we've seen on the news, it's like there's something. One side of the bridge is closed. lt's 10:19 p.m. At 22.15, AK PARTY Ankara MP Aydın Ünal calls me, saying that, as such, the F16s are flying over parliament. I'm calling our Prime Minister. It says: "Elitaş, as if there was an attempt, there could be an attempt." And as of 22.19, the Prime Minister -- I think ten minutes later -- is connected to the television. He says it's an attempt. Whoever's doing this will pay the price. And then I'm talking to the Prime Minister again, Mr. Prime Minister, what should I do? I'm in Kayseri. The exact answer is: "Elitas, it's a very brutal business, can you put people on the street?" In accordance with his instructions from our Prime Minister, our vice presidents, all of our members of the MYK, our group's vice presidents here, gather first in Parliament, then in Çankaya, and then in all Turkey, send a message to all 10 million AK PARTİ, and gather in the Meydans.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0967par0278	So we threw it away.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0966par0279	All AK PARTY members are gathered in the squares at 00.08, all over Turkey, from the minarets of the mosques. Where's this coming from? You know, he's in your tunnel. The Prime Minister you call him, he's discreet, he's strong, he's faithful, he's a lover of democracy, he's an attempt. People come out of the street from the moment they say, "Oh, my God! I'm prepared to die with my nation at two o'clock, with their sons on their backs, with their children, with their advisors with them, with the traitors on their side, 15 minutes before the attack on the area where they vacationed in Muğla, and again without fear of anything. I'm ready to die with my nation. In accordance with the Prime Minister's instructions to not lift planes in Eskişehir, to land aircraft in Malatya, to land planes in Malatya, if there is a plane in the air. To instruct those who ask for written orders, sir, I want a written order. What's the written order, brother? People are out on the street. Democracy goes away, the republic goes away. I'm giving the order, this written order is instruction. This is what we are today because of that brave, discreet Prime Minister who called it and landed the plane in the air. (EC PARTY) If that Prime Minister didn't do what he had to do, if he'd just ducked out of the tanks and watched his TV somewhere, they'd take us all out of our house, like September 12th, they'd trouble us, what if...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0968par0280	They're gonna throw it in a hole.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0969par0281	You wouldn't be talking today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0966par0282	They'd throw us in a hole, or they'd take us to an island, and they'd lock us in a room, and they'd say, "Free, maybe we'd go into a room with you," and they'd say, "Peace." But on that day, Mr. Prime Minister's speech, his courage, his insight, his love for the nation of the President, his love of democracy, and the most important thing he cared about in the country was the will of the nation. I don't know any other power above the will of the nation. 28 days in the morning, a nation standing guard appeared in love with democracy, with its leader. We saw May 27th, we saw September 12th, but since they had never made a sound, the coupgers arrived. If it weren't for the balansians and the clappers on February 28th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... If someone had come out to tell them, if they had been the leader, there wouldn't have been 27 May, there wouldn't have been 12 September, there wouldn't have been 28 February. (AC PARTY) Thankfully, a courageous, full-blown president of his nation's will prevented a leader from becoming a leader on July 15th. From now on Kemal Kilicdaroglu won't be able to find any more tanks to mount him. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0970par0287	It's not gonna get on top, it's not gonna get on top!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0966par0288	He won't find a toy tank!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0972par0290	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0291	I'd like to exercise my right to answer directly to our president and our group for their bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0972par0292	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0295	Mr. President, now, Mr. Elitaş has learned his lesson from the mistake he made in his previous speech, his lack of style, and he didn't go there, but he went into something else.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0973par0296	That's because he had a different lesson!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0297	What he's getting at is this: he's talking about a tank, you haven't stepped on it. He says, and we have one answer: you filled the tanks, the Prime Minister filled the tanks, and there's no room left for the President, and we're down there, brother? Which one of you was on the tank?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0974par0299	What did Kilicdaroglu say? I'm going to get on top of the tank. He said, he ran away!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0300	Now, we had our nation on the tank, our nation on the tank.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0975par0301	He thought tanks were paper, Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0971par0302	Secondly, Mr. Ayşe Kesir, I sometimes call him the hero of democracy on July 15th. Here, CNN released the publication of Turkey's "Bilent Tezcan" to its broadcast. Bulent Tezcan has received Facebook, CNN Türk live. Now is the time to stay above the tanks, to stand in front of the tanks. We know who kissed on the forehead of Bulent Tezcan, when he said here. As the Republican People's Party (EC PARTY) I'll tell you this -- until morning, until morning -- I'll tell you something you've never heard: the imam of the village of Chepnibektas of Manisa.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0976par0304	We didn't say anything, we call Mr. Kemal.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0975par0305	We're not saying anything to him.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0977par0306	Hey, listen to me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0978par0307	No one said anything to you either.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0979par0308	Hey, listen to me!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0309	Guys, wait a minute! Look, if you control your group, I'll give you the right to answer... You talk for ten minutes, you're asymmetrical and you're like...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0981par0311	You're lying, you're talking wrong.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0982par0312	You guys have been talking all morning.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0313	It's like a zoning change on the parsel, when Mr. Ismail walks to the bench, you get the pat-down. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0981par0314	Tell Veli Ağbaba. They did it in the last minister's speech.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0983par0315	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0316	I'll tell you something you've never heard of: the Muezzini or imam of the village of Chepnibektas after July 15th, because there are one staff, so they drove it, he told the story of the man who came to Soma. The governor's on duty, the governor's on duty, you call him, you ask him tomorrow. Because I didn't read the flood at Çepnibektaşta. I said: "There is such a call of your organization and if you don't obey and resist the coup, I didn't read the flood, but I called the resistance against the coup." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0983par0319	I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0320	What's the matter? He said, "Ya, I don't think it's right to say this, but I'll tell you." Chepnibektaş is a village where we take 1,198 for 1,200 games, the Republican People's Party. I didn't know what it would do if I called this village to resist the coup by reading the flood, your speech on television... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Just hear me out. I received your speech on television, played this, and I thought the Republican People's Party's Deputy Group President would be more effective here, and everyone took a clear stand against the coup.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0984par0324	Are those people against the flood? I wish you hadn't told me that, and I wish you hadn't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0325	I've read one flood, I've played your speech three times. The Governor of Manisa witnessed this. I called the governor, and I said, "Look, you took this away from me, but that's the reason, even though his intention was to use the most persuasive argument against the coup, even if it was the mosque speaker." I said, "The governor's initiative gave up his exile."
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0984par0326	I wish you hadn't set an example of that, you insulted your choice.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0327	Now, if you're talking about your own neighborhood or anything like that, you're saying that the Republican People's Party... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...how much you talk about people there, how much you support your audience and how much you support yours.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0985par0330	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0986par0331	Your Army County President didn't occur, we made a phone call, it didn't happen, the general headquarters didn't give instructions.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0332	We're all Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0987par0333	You say all the people who lived in that village were against the flood.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0334	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0987par0335	So you say.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0988par0336	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0980par0337	To those in the village there, the imam is using the most effective method.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0987par0338	You're insulting these people. But you insult these people.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0988par0339	Mr. Special, you're out of time, you're out.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0989par0340	Don't shout, Ilyas. You weren't there when I was texting.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0990par0341	Your first president didn't happen, so I made a phone call.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0989par0342	You weren't there when I texted you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0991par0343	You weren't in the square, don't make a sound, I haven't seen you for twenty-nine days, I haven't seen you in any square.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0992par0344	You were all gone, sorry, running away, running away.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0993par0345	And finally...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0994par0346	Go ask Ismet Çitt. Who texted? None of them, none of them.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0995par0347	Haydar, shut up! You've got a bad record about this, shut up! You weren't in the square, not even CHP.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0996par0348	Mr. Special, your time for conversation is over, it's over.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0997par0349	Okay, I'll say hi, but they won't let me. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] No one, no one, and no one, should try to create hostility from the past and the common value. If there's a mistake, we'll learn from the past, but by taking it out on the past...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0996par0352	Mr. Special, you can't be heard, you're talking for nothing.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0997par0353	...to continue with the politics, perhaps to suit you, but not to this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0356	Mr. President, I'm just going to say one sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0999par0357	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0358	Our warning has just been noted that he said, in fact he didn't say them; I won't go there.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1000par0359	You'd better not.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0360	I'm not going in because I'm not going in the same sack with you. Second item...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1000par0362	I'm never in the sack. I'm not going in the same sack, I'm not going in the sack.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1001par0363	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0364	I believe that there were around 11 of them here that day...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1000par0365	15.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0366	...there were 15 Republican People's Party MPs. I firmly believe that if those MPs saw a tank, they'd all be on top of it, not like their president.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1002par0368	Not at all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1003par0369	What's that got to do with it? I mean, Mr. Mustafa, come on!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe0998par0370	The CHP MPs who came here...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1002par0371	Not at all.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1003par0372	I mean, that doesn't happen. It doesn't happen. Oh, come on.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1004par0373	The group doesn't suit the Vice President.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1005par0374	...at the time the Minister of Justice was speaking on the stand when the bombs were dropped.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1004par0375	It doesn't suit the Vice President of Elitaş Group, it doesn't.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1006par0376	He's doing what suits him, why wouldn't he be?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1005par0377	Instead of going to the shelter, the friends here had exactly the same feelings that they were going to fight them, to fight those coupgers -- none of them -- and I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1007par0378	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1008par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1009par0380	There's no teasing here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1008par0381	There's bullying, he wouldn't run away like their president. He said, sir, there's bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1010par0382	Of course I do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1011par0383	Okay, two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1012par0384	Mustafa will be long tonight.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1010par0385	It's okay, it's okay. We're here. It's okay, we're here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1012par0386	We're here too, Ozkan. You're 13 people here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1010par0387	It doesn't matter, we're here on our own, no problem.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1013par0388	Mr. President, calm your friend here, then talk.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1010par0389	I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1014par0390	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1015par0392	Your Özkan... your Özkan... Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are coming, someone's making the coven nervous. He made such an accusation, Mr. Elitaş. Right now, we know what you're trying to do by creating asymmetrical competition. But here's the truth: I'm the one talking on behalf of the party. I repeat to you what I have told you before: to resist the coup, to resist this blow, to create a response to the coupters, to create hope for them, to show the most open attitude towards those who want to do so during and after this coup, and then, on July 20th, to declare a political ingratitude to this Parliament, the message given to you from July 15th to July 20th, to clean up the coupters, to do what you want to do in the morning, to do what you want to do.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1016par0394	By calling it a controlled coup...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1015par0395	...as if three groups didn't ally themselves with you that night, and the next day, to turn the coup into an opportunity, which was predicted, to take the necessary measures and not be prevented.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1017par0396	Prove it... based on what?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1015par0397	...predicted that night when it was done, the night it was unstoppable, and its consequences were used to declare the State of Emergency with the 20th of July civilian coup, and then take the State of Emergency bat in your hand and take it out on all the opponents...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1018par0398	You're speaking English again!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1015par0399	...as we say to those who have been using this bat with lust for 17 months...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1018par0400	You're speaking English again!
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1015par0401	...to the 15th of July and to the martyrs and to the veterans, you're being unfair and disrespectful. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1019par0404	You're talking to the mouth of Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1020par0409	Finally, Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1021par0412	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if they're watching, I salute the General Assembly and everyone watching us at this hour. Tonight is the longest night of the year at the chasm, which connects December 20th to December 21st. It's been a really endless night. Yes, after the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, in fact, four parties -- whether you ignore it or try to make it go away -- came together to give up a common opinion on how to fight the coup.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1022par0415	We're just saying what happened in Congress.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1021par0416	He had given the message that fighting this coup could be overcome by democracy and that the only way was to protect humanity, justice, justice. So in that critical five-day period of time, if the ruling party had actually continued to fight in that sense, in that sense, in the spirit of that day, we might have been going through a very different period today. But the continuing blow that started on July 20th, starting in a different way, has actually been a heavy stick on all opponents so far. Yeah, actually, there was another coup on November 4th. On November 4th, Parliament was struck by the second-time veteran of Parliament. Co-Chairs and MPs of a party sent to this parliament by the will of 6.5 million voters representing as many as 20 million people in this parliament have been arrested in an operation. Since then, during the State of Emergency, you have started to fight against all those who were not of your own, who were not actually fighting the coupters or the coupgers, using the KHKs, using the State of Emergency or using the State of Emergency. But it's not a road. So we're doing budget talks today, and we're not really doing it in a healthy environment, and there's no political will of a party, a part of this country, a very important part of the Kurdish people under this roof right now.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1023par0417	It's here, here, here.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1021par0418	You're ignoring that will, but it's not a way. This isn't a road, Congressman. And there began to be segments of society that were constantly tensed, polarized, that were now acting against each other, that people began to slaughter and kill each other every day in a state of madness. There's so much more, violence has come to such points that we are faced with unspeakable landscapes - violence against animals, violence against pets. We're all in a state of madness. Now, I was going to tell you about subcontractors today, and we really live in an environment where no one can talk about a secure job, a right to work, a working life under the pressure of these subcontractors. Everyone is afraid and afraid, no one can speak, no one can express their ideas freely, freely, not the judge, not the prosecutor, not the doctor, not the teacher, not the worker, not anyone. Now that you've made it so, even the basic principles of the public staff regime have been ignored. There's no one talking about principles like merit, fairness. The subcontractors say that tonight, with news from the government, they are expecting, Mr. Secretary, but in fact, millions of people in anticipation of Congress. Over a million people are mentioned; over a million subcontractors means millions of homes, people. We don't have the right to play with their future and ruin anyone's future. The first thing to do is to give up the State of Emergency, the State of Emergency, these unjust practices. It's about respecting the will of the people, giving the will of the people to the people, respecting the true will of this House. You can't make any policy by ignoring them. Inflation, dollars, there are now millions of people who are increasingly poor under these numbers every day, whose future is blackened, who can no longer look to the future with confidence, who are desperate. You created a climate like this, and it's your creation; unfortunately, you are. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1024par0422	Thank you, Mr. Bedia. Now, here's the question-answer part, members of lawmakers. Our time is ten minutes; I'll take the questions of the MPs in the first five minutes, and in the second five minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer those questions. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1025par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Finance Minister: First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his constructive attitude to all the questions he's been given all night. Do we have eyes, law enforcement, 3600 additional indicators and autonomy rights to improve our police? My second question: Police Special Ops and POMEM have suffered a loss, especially since the age has been reduced by the new arrangement. Is there any study of age being pushed to the maximum limit? Again, one of the major problems of delayed social problems is that the period of internship and apprenticeship is not accepted as the beginning of insurance. Is there a study in that sense? It causes the victimization of young people who work as interns. Also, our chiefs have a request, can this be considered? Is there any possibility of a one-time DVR discount and a VAT discount?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1026par0431	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1027par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with the next bill, the subcontractor's law, on December 4th, which is 15 days before that, a worker will be able to get a staff; this is the bill that's leaking to the press right now. Those who have spent their lives serving the Turkish army and the Turkish nation, who have served as senior sergeants for 15 or 20 years, are unfortunately continuing their contractal duties. Their lives depend on two words coming out of the commander's mouth; if the commander refuses to renew his contract when the term of the contract expires, then the sergeant's term of duty is over. I'm asking you clearly: do you have any idea of putting the special sergeants on the staff, Mr. Secretary? All the sergeants and contractors are waiting for you with good news as they enter the new year. My second question is: The place where the former parliamentary residences of the Turkish Grand National Assembly were destroyed. The nation shall make the assembly of the peoples. There was also an inscription. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What I'm asking is, do people have money or can't the government produce projects? What's the matter, Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1028par0438	Mr. Kara instead of Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1029par0439	Thank you. In many majors, health institutes are opening, with approximately 450,000 health workers waiting to be appointed. So far, there's no clear explanation. In the budget of 2018, for our college graduates, do we have a staff, what's the number? The other question is: There are tens of thousands of students under the name of assistant medical staff, which means they've finished college, but they've been banned from working in the ER. The other issue -- we talked about it last year -- is not in the budget for health workers' rights this year. You said. Have you set aside a grant in our budget this year? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1030par0444	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1031par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just asked you in the first questions, you couldn't answer it, it wasn't enough time, but then you didn't give me any information about whether or not you'd give it in writing. Minister, although 93.3% of Turkey's population resides in municipalities, the share of the general budget to municipalities is six per cent, but in general, major cities do not offer their services to the public enough, especially. I think it should be 10 to 15 percent. Is there a study on this? I'd like to know what you think. My second question: according to TİK data, the number of executions has reached 28 million, Mr. Secretary. What measures do you intend to take to reduce that number? Again, from the questions we've just been asked, specialist sergeants are walking the streets. Does the government have any work against them?
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1032par0450	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1033par0451	Mr. President, my question is Mr. Naci Agbala, Minister of Finance. Mr. Secretary, members of our brothers and sisters, who are working under governorship and subsidiaries, who are serving in social aid and solidarity foundations, and our brothers and sisters in the Department of Agriculture, who serve in the Department of Agriculture, and our brothers and sisters in the engineering career status and brothers in the Ministry of Forestry, are also waiting for a staff. Mr. Secretary, do you plan to employ these brothers during the final stages of subcontractorial staff work? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1032par0453	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Mr. Depboy...
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1034par0455	Mr. Secretary, in 2013 there was a 25 per cent increase in the monthly improvement of duty disability, but the senior military and duty disability did not benefit from the increase. Do you have any interest in giving them the right? Again, non-injured veterans in the fight against terrorism have no right to take advantage of any rights. We have veterans who have more than 40 per cent of disability rates while linking victims with 40 per cent of disability monthly; health problems remain, and unfortunately they do not even have health benefits. I want to know what will be done for them. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1035par0458	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1036par0459	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Erdem, they've stated if we're working on an additional indicator arrangement. As of now, there are these kinds of demands for different public staff cuts. I've said it before, and I think it's appropriate to consider these issues collectively. And our friends got their notes on the other stuff. I don't have any detailed information at the moment. Mr. Lightning, Mr. Iron, Mr. Tor, Mr. Depboylu has brought up staff requests for public employees again. I'm guessing our relevant institutions are working on these issues -- things that come up from time to time. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-20sit11spe1037par0464	Thank you. Members of parliament, I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article has been passed. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is Thursday (December 21, 2017) at 11 p.m. to vote on the unvoted provisions of the Central Management Budget Bill 2018, and to discuss the articles of the 2016 Central Management Computation Bill. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
