tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about foreign trade developments. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment regarding some developments in foreign trade. I salute the grand jury. In the region and in the world, political and economically, dynamics of movement are changing, relationships are redefined, partnerships are being formed; we are moving towards a new era. Turkey must move on as a strong economic actor, considering new dynamics in its region and the world economy. In order to do so, we need to read very carefully and take the necessary steps as a result of recent developments in the economy. In April and May, it appears that a movement began in exports. But in recent months, foreign trade has unfortunately been experiencing data pollution and complexity. Because in the past week, three separate data on foreign trade have been released. TÜİK announced April 31st and then announced export registration numbers on June 1st, and lastly, temporary May foreign trade data was released by Customs and Trade Ministry according to customs records on June 2nd. According to data released by TIM (TİM), exports in May increased by 15.8 per cent last month according to exports in the same month. In the first five months of the year, exports have increased by 10 per cent to $63 billion. Then, on June 2nd, temporary foreign trade data, published by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, unfortunately filed our joy. According to the Ministry's data, the increase in May 2017 is more limited, and the foreign trade deficit appears to be rising rapidly. According to the ministry's data, exports increased by 9.5 per cent in the same month last year, to 13.2 billion dollars, and imports increased by 21.4 per cent to $20.8 billion. The foreign trade deficit increased 49.4 per cent in May, making it $7.6 billion. The rate of exports was 70.2% in May 2016 and 63.3% in May 2017. In the first five months, exports are $63.9 billion, imports are $89.1 billion, foreign trade deficits are $25.2 billion. We haven't been able to get over 150 billion dollars since 2012. In the first five months of the year, 14.6 billion dollars of total imports are imports of energy. In the first five months, the bill for energy imports increased by 4%. In the first five months of the year, 75% of 89.1 billion dollars of imports are imports of raw materials and intermediaries. The imports of raw materials and intermediary goods increase by 22 per cent, while the imports of investment goods decrease by 17 per cent. This shows that our production structure is largely dependent on imports, that when the internal demand comes to life, the demand for imports increases a little bit as exports increases, the demand for imports and therefore the foreign trade deficit rises rapidly, while export growth is beginning to bring together a high level of foreign trade deficit, the dependence of imports can't be broken. The decision falls on the buyers, not to be fooled by the rise in only exports, to see structural problems in foreign trade and to reach out as soon as possible. Foreign trade data in May should be received as a signal. As exports and production begin to revive, imports and foreign trade deficits are rapidly increasing, and soon they reflect negatively on current transactions. Despite the rise in exchange courses, a 49% increase in foreign trade deficits in May is a situation that should be considered if exports can't be increased more than imports. There are serious structural difficulties and developments in foreign trade that lead to congestion. These can only be solved by throwing scalpels at problems, by bringing structural measures into action. Unfortunately, the government doesn't have that approach. In particular, every problem that has been faced recently is being treated with imports. That's not the right approach. The talks of currency and interest have stopped, but the costs have increased. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The increase in dollars can't afford increasing exports. You shouldn't be looking for solutions in wheat, meat, beans, chickpeas, iron, any product that has problems. Otherwise, it is not possible for us to be a country that talks about balancing foreign trade, which Mr. President and ministers often express, to achieve even half of their 2023 goals. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second statement outside the agenda is owned by İstanbul MP Selina Doğan, who wants to talk about the issues of Beyoğlu district. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you today about the problems of Beyoglu and İstiklal Street. Congressmans, there are some cities that are famous for its historical texture, some cities are notorious for its economic properties, some are famous for its geographical beauty. Istanbul, however, is a very special city that has all these features, but unfortunately it has been sacrificed in recent years to a terrible, violent rant fight. The most concrete example of this is in Beyoglu, and in private, Istiklal Street. As you know, Beyoglu was a prominent neighborhood of many events that gave Beyoglu his characteristics, such as cultural centers within 27 consulates, foreign colleges, minority schools, theatres, opera halls, festivals, and so on, and it was a very special neighborhood where multiculturalism was found. You know, he's been hosting great books, great theaters, but unfortunately, for some time on purpose and consciously, Beyoglu wants to be purged of all those qualities. Unfortunately, this recent life centre is being transformed into a cheap mall, such as the Tulips. And yet we have to sit down and think about it together and talk about how we should get ahead of it together. This conscious and intentional change began largely in 2004, with the number of jobs increased exponentially in Beyoglu, when licenses were removed from subsidiaries and given to municipalities. In 2005, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and Beyoglu Municipality decided to remove the trees from the street and replace them with Chinese granite, and then they weren't happy with it, so they decided to tear them up and lay the Turkish stone. While public resources are being wasted in such a vulgar manner, of course the number of visitors to the street has dropped dramatically. In 2005, entertainment taxes were increased by more than a thousand percent, alcohol-producing brands were banned from sponsoring cultural events, followed by a ban on smoking. Of course, I'm not going to discuss the benefits of this ban here, but since the venues were prevented from putting tables outside, the police and the tradesmen were constantly facing each other. After all, Besoglu was also planted in the middle of İstiklal Street as well as in Istanbul, as if there was not enough AVM in Istanbul. In the words of the ancients, he's become the king! So Beyoglu became a sacrilegious, prudish and vulgar neighborhood. The right to protest, an indispensable democratic right, has been used all over the world in the squares or in the busy areas of that town, while the taxi has been purged of all these protests and has again experienced changes that the Istiklal Street has never experienced in the past. Movies like Emek, Alkazar and Sinepop are history. Ataturk Cultural Center, Muammar Karaca Theatre and State Theatres, St. Nesin Theatre is closed. Pearl Profiterol has closed, MPs, Butterfly Korse has had to move and art has died in Beyoglu, MPs. Yes, the Istilal Street has changed a lot over time, but when I came from the Gulf countries to get a hair transplant, I should also buy a cheap T-shirt. It was never delivered to tourists who said: And, of course, there's Salon Square, which has been poured into Turkey's most important square, under the name of the project for extremism. Yes, the concrete you know was poured out, and the Ataturk Memorial in the middle was surrounded by police barriers. I ask: What country in the world's largest square has a view like this? Like this. Congressmans, there is another danger waiting for us. While culture and art have left Istiklal Street for entertainment, this place has left its place to the drug and prostitution mafia. Let's think about what this means for children today who are forced to live on the streets selling handkerchiefs or begging. But let's face it, as Mr. President has complained, you haven't made enough progress in culture, you haven't done that, but you've made an important step towards destroying the republic's culture of enlightenment. Instead, you've created a culture of postmodern, looting, looting, looting, and you'll be remembered for it. You also destroyed Istiklal Street because its name came from freedom. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come, give it up, take note of our criticism to win the street his old identity. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Muhammad Mufit Aydın, who wants to address June 5th as World Environment Day. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate you on June 5th, World Environment Day, and salute your grand delegation. June 5th is celebrated worldwide as World Environment Day with various events to attract public attention to environmental problems, improve public participation and increase political interest. In the 1950s, environmental pollution began to occur on the face of the earth, as technology developed and industrialization increased the use of existing resources. On June 5, 1972, a conference by the United Nations under the name of the Human Environment Conference was held under the name of the 133 nations in Stockholm, Sweden, and it was acknowledged that June 5th was World Environment Day, and that environmental problems became a problem that threatened all mankind and could only be resolved by co-ordinated cooperation. The protection of environmental values that are vital to life is far too important to reduce to just one day in a week. For us, June 5th Earth Environment Day is a reminder of the development of environmental sensitivity, and we reflect the protection of the environment and natural resources and the transfer of its resources to future generations in all our processes to all our policy areas. Today, the whole world struggles against environmental problems that threaten the future of mankind, such as global warming, desertification, drought, failure to reach clean drinking water. As Turkey, we strive to make the best of our role in this global struggle by participating in international agreements and by making the necessary arrangements for the protection of environmental values with our national policies and with our legislation. In action that all people are responsible for a clean environment, public institutions, NGOs, private sectors, municipalities, and our people, we are all doing a lot of work together in many areas, from the projects of wastewater treatment projects to enhance green areas in order to prevent environmental pollution, to protect natural resources, from integrated solid waste management to beach cleaning and environmental education projects. Mr. President, in recent years, valuable lawmakers have increased the number of solid waste regular storage sites across the country with this cooperation and synergy, while before 2003, 15 years ago, that number covered our 81 provinces as of 2016. We've been able to rehabilitate areas where solid waste is stored savagely and poses a threat to public health in the environment. We're now producing 155 megawatts of electrical energy from methane in 24 regular waste storage spaces. We've supported domestically qualified waste-water treatment facilities and increased their numbers. In 2002, the wastewater treatment service, 35 per cent, reached 79.7 per cent as of 2016. We spread clean fuel use in our cities to prevent air pollution and encourage clean fuel and care to prevent exhaust gas pollution. As of today, we've created a network of air pollution tracking networks in all our provinces 24 hours a day, and we've set up a similar monitoring system to monitor marine pollution. We took our place as a country in the fight against climate change and pledged to reduce emissions of 21 per cent greenhouse gas at the Paris Conference. Although the U.S. President's actions these days may be a challenge to this substance, but we will continue to do our part. In efforts to preserve and expand forests to combat global climate change and erosion, we planted an average of 400,000 hectares a year, thus allowing our country to enter among the countries that boost forest areas around the world. We encouraged the use of our country's local energy sources, which depend on energy supply with the renewable Energy Law, to transform solar, wind, hydraulic energy potential into private sector investment. Turkey, with a sense of sustainable development that will be provided by environmentally-friendly practices and the needs of future generations, with the quality of life increased, the quality of biological diversity maintained, the approach to sustainable development of natural resources, everyone from natural resources is fairly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with the goal of making a country that has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment for everyone.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Yes, it was yesterday - June 5th - World Environment Day. Today, having environmental awareness is also the main framework of modern human behavior. Hence, environmental awareness is primarily made up of individual responsibility within man. There are enormous responsibilities and duties for environmental pollution from family to educators, local governments to citizens from all parts of society and from all ages to people of all ages. In Article 56 of our Constitution, everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is called the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution. We congratulate all humanity as the Presidential Court on June 5th, with every effort and every positive step we take for the environment to build a future for future generations to live in a better world. And we also congratulate the Göztepe Sports Club after Sivas and Malatyaspor, which rose with great success to the Super League, and wish them success in the Super League. (Applause from CHP rows) Again, we celebrate, congratulate, and wish you all the best in the PTT First League and other leagues. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system in a row. Mr. Liberty, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0008par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Some vocational groups who have internships are considered the start of insurance, with reasons such as non-existent military and birth, as well as the start of insurance, but this loan is not recognised for those who are interns in vocational schools. This is against the principle of equality in our Constitution. If our vocational high school students are working uninsuredly without any insurance arm, then there is no legal basis for an internship for a high school student, and this is a violation of the principles of universal equality. Unfortunately, laborers who work as apprentices and interns are being victimised because of this legal distortion and this anomaly. We demand that the necessary arrangements be made and that the victims be relieved by the end of the distortion.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0007par0071	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0009par0073	Mr. President... About eight months ago, the defendant was pressed by a prosecutor to silence the Cumhuriyet daily. 13 executives and writers of the Republic newspaper are now in prison. The indictment, released 156 days after journalists entered the prison, included the MASAK report, which examined the money movements. This report cited the organization's connection to a company where the son of the parkec, who was paid to install $2,500 worth of hardwood, was paid for by Executive Board President Akin Atalaaj. So in the indictment, you paid off the person you put in the park. This person's son sold to one of his associates. That's why you're a GERP. It's called. May God give you some advice. As a lawyer, I don't know how to comment on that. But it has to be known that this conspiracy against the Republic newspaper will collapse. The Republic newspaper is the republic's newspaper. You will not silence the Republic.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0010par0076	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0011par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I submit to the General Assembly's information that 32 academics from different universities shared with the public that the results of April 16 were scientifically controversial: the way to access accurate and objective data and information has been blocked by changes in pre-referendum ballot forms. While counting was completed in some areas, while continuing in some areas, scientific and objective data principle was eliminated to achieve correct results by changing the definition and reason of the interim ballot. After the count, data checks were not allowed without all margins of error and objections, and the way to prove the results is blocked. Scientists have found that it is scientifically impossible to say that the referendum declared by the YSK reflects the true will of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0012par0082	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. President, a contractual health care staff of 12,500 should be prevented from victimizing thousands of students who are studying in upper secondary school, pre-license and license classes. The Ministry of Health has set the deadlines for the purchase of 12,500 people on June 7-13, but thousands of young people will not be able to apply for work because the application date and school graduation dates do not match. Although students take the 2016 Public Staff Selection Exam, the Ministry of Health should leave the deadline for hiring staff at the end of the month on the grounds that their graduation dates coincided three or four days later. On the other hand, the final exam dates must be moved forward in all health sciences universities and the victims of the students must be eliminated. Moreover, former graduates who have been waiting for years to be appointed should not be victimized. In fairness, there must be an opening for both the former graduates and our newly graduated students to find employment.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0014par0088	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0015par0090	Mr. President, are the claims that the mining firms want to destroy our olive groves in accordance with their demands and because of their pressure? Also, what is the number of mining and operating permits that have been applied for so far for olive groves in our olive-producing provinces? How many of these were rejected because of the Law on the Insemination of Olives and Wilds of Olives No. 3573? How much is the application for mining and operating permits between 2014 and 17? How much of this has been approved? What is the number of unapproved mining applications in olive fields? Come and give up this love. I wish you all a life as long as an olive tree, as fertile as an olive grain, and as healthy as olive oil.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0016par0094	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to our Minister of Culture and Tourism. There has been a mysterious excavation in Mersin Tarsus for eight months. The entrance and exits of a street have been closed with high-level security and no one has been brought near here for eight months. We're asking the governor, the governor has no details; we're asking my governor-in-law, no details. It is said that there are many treasures here, even the treasures of the Dokyanus, which have become urban myths. I ask the Minister of Culture to inform the public, to make sure that the artifacts left by Tarsus are left in Tarsus, to be taken into custody 24 hours of surveillance footage of the excavation in the area, with respect.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0018par0099	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. June 5th, World Environment Day. There is pollution in the Akkaya Dam between Niğde and Bor that has not been removed for ten years. This pollution is now a disaster of the environment. There's still talk of projects. But the smell and the water that it emits, as well as the swelling, the discoloration of its color threatens human health. And there's a lot of pollution in Red Creek. There is a lot of talk about the environment in our country, and unfortunately, the environmental and natural slaughter is increasing. Besides, air pollution is concentrated in our country to affect people's health. I wish the government would take more immediate measures on these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0020par0105	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. The removal of the Children's and Women's Diseases departments in İstanbul's Ataşehir district at Fatih Sultan Mehmet Hospital to Sandzaktepe has victimised our citizens living in Ataşehir district. Two important sections of the only state hospital in Ataşehir, 400,000 inhabitants, have been shut down unplanned and unscheduled, and are forced to travel to other districts dozens of miles away. Although the hospital administration cited the reconstruction of the service building as an excuse, it is the Ministry of Health's primary duty to provide solutions without sacrificing our women and children living in Ataşehir. I once again urge the Ministry of Health and the authorities to listen to the victims and complaints of our Ataşehir citizens. Instead of making access to health care difficult, find ways to make it easier. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0022par0111	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1972, the United Nations declared June 5th as World Environment Day and celebrated June 5th as World Environment Day. 2017's theme was to meet nature again. This century has provided a lot of technological possibilities, and it has taken a lot out of nature and the environment. As a result of industrialisation and urbanization, environmental problems have arisen, and these problems have negatively affected life and continue to affect it. 6 million people die of air pollution a year, 663 million people can't reach drinkable water. We come from a culture that calculates the water we drink, the air we breathe, everything we consume, the measure, the balance. What we need is to take care of this culture. I desire that the World Environment Day should contribute to a habitable world, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0025par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the terms of the state-funded TARSIM county-based drought insurance policy this year, when damage is taken under the TARSIM drought insurance policy -- according to the conditions of the agreement -- is there a shortage on the values of these parcels, by moving the sample parcels from which the insurance is applied?....................................................................................... How will these sample parcels be selected? The drought damage in some parcels is 90 per cent or even 100 per cent, while in some parcels it is 60 to 70 per cent, while in some parcels it is 30 to 40 per cent. If the damage is 5 to 10 per cent in the sample parcels selected by TARSIM, the manufacturer will suffer massive financial damage through these parcels. The application will be considered the borough threshold average, not the county efficiency application. If the county thresholds are too low, there's a very good chance our farmers won't take advantage of the drought damage. I remind you that this matter must be resolved immediately and that it must be avoided before the potential victims of our farmers...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0024par0123	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0026par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is: BOTAŞ, an organization belonging to the Ministry of Energy, has a national and internationally successful basketball club called Botasspor, which has been operating in Adana for many years. Botasspor, a very important club for basketball infrastructure in Adana, is said to be a major influence for young people to meet sports, and will continue their activities in Ankara as of next season. Botaşspor is from Adana, the team of Adana. We expect you to intervene in this situation, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0027par0128	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0028par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government, which has rejected the decades-old savings of Turkish foreign policy, will now decide what must be done in the Gulf. Yesterday, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates announced that they had cut off all diplomatic ties with Egypt, Qatar, and the reason for this country's support for terrorism. What you see here in my hand is an indication of what the government's foreign policy has led Turkey to an adventure; Turkey will send Turkish Armed Forces to this country in order to protect Qatar territory, signed by then Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. This agreement was made in exchange for what the government should both explain and explain the Gulf policy in the General Assembly to our supreme Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0029par0133	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0030par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the ministers and ministers of the country: Because of the intense migration from the village to the city since the 1950s, there has been a huge settlement on 2/B land, infrastructure investments, public service buildings, settlements. But our people in these areas have been living with the problems of property for many years, and they are not particularly subscribers to electricity and water. The arrangement on the sale of land on 19/4/2012 was not enough to solve problems. Do you do any work on solving property problems by determining the flaws and shortcomings of the law in order to address the victims of our people who settled on treasury land? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0031par0138	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0032par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Although power has promised the conclusion of the Mersin-Silifke-Transtor Highway Project, before each election, it has not yet been fulfilled, unfortunately. Thus, as summer season begins, the summer homes from the surrounding provinces of Mersin are also suffering. I insist and ask the authorities again: What are the reasons for the failure of these repeated promises in every election of the Mersin-Transport highway, which has now become a total torture for our citizens? Is there a short-term solution for those who wish to reach their summer homes between the path to Tarsus-Silfke, which has turned into suffering? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0033par0143	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0034par0145	The question, Mr. Prime Minister, is that because of the hailing and pouring rain in many villages of Adana, our farmers were unable to harvest their crops. Adana farmers no longer want their debt to be transferred by interest. Our Adana farmers expect that, just as other industrialists, tradesmen, they will be able to construct their debts and pay them with interest free. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0033par0147	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0035par0149	Mr. President, the law of the olive bill means that the Tobacco Law, 350,000 farmers and 385 thousand farmers, and 750,000 families of olives, will also be condemned to hunger and poverty. For those of you who don't think about what to eat or how to live, because they want mining, construction, energy, tourism companies, the public benefit is that the tree will not die by fraud, it will kill olives and its own people. In the Qur'an -- my name is also mentioned -- in the Tin surah, it is sworn on olives and fig trees. Today, Binali Yıldırım now swears by the facilities? After this law, you're going to feed our people coal, palm oil and lard instead of olive oil? This bill is a decree for the slaughter of olive groves. If the king is the king, the mountains are ours. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0036par0153	Mr. Hero and Mr. Necip Shield Gentlemen specifically made demands for the Eyetepe Sports Club. I told them I'd promise. Mr. Hero, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0037par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Göztepe, whose past was full of great achievements and his first successful semifinals by proudly representing our country in Europe, rose from the ashes to the Super League and drowned İzmir. The success of Göztepe is undoubtedly the triumph of tenacity and faith. This victory has opened flowers in the mountains of İzmir, and the children of İzmir will be proud to read the March of İzmir. Because, as we all know, football is never just football. In this context, I sincerely congratulate the club president Mehmet Sepil and the Board of Directors, our experienced teacher Yilmaz Vural and football players, who supported the entire community, without saying rain or mud, at the beginning of Göztepe's debut in the Super League. I'm talking about the head of the other clubs of our poor Izmir. I wish Eskişehirspor would return as soon as possible to his old age. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0038par0160	Mr. Dogan, get into the system. And if there's anything related to Göztepe, we can take it from the National Movement Party. Mr. Shield, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0039par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, we are all very happy and very happy in Izmir. Turkey's most radical sports clubs were founded in İzmir. Versayaka, Altay, Altın Army, Göztepe, Izmirspor and many others all at once. They're teams in the league. It's the name of a neighborhood. The team that was in the league and set the world audience record is also in İzmir, which is called Göztepe. Also, Turkey's first semi-final team in the European Cup is called Göztepe. After 14 years, the team that will represent our İzmir in the Super League is Göztepe, and our pride is great. The fact that Göztepe is in the Super League means that both trade and tourism will be revived in İzmir. With the support of our Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, Göztepe and our other clubs will have their status as soon as possible. We are happy, thank you, and wish Göztepe well.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0040par0168	Thank you. Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0041par0171	My question to Mr. Minister of Justice: 105 people, including our Manisa County co-chairs, have been waiting 18 months for a prosecutor to file an indictment. Our written and verbal question motions on this subject have not been answered. The families of our imprisoned friends are in a very difficult situation. Why isn't there an indictment against 105 of our party members, and why aren't these people brought to trial? My respects.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0040par0173	Congratulations to Göstepespor, by the way. That's why I opened it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0041par0174	Yeah, yeah, I forgot about that. Yes, I'm celebrating the arrival of Göztepespor to the Super League.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0040par0176	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0042par0178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The night of the dorm fire last year in Aladağ, where 11 girls and 1 educators lost their lives, our lives were on fire, while academic lawmakers accepted received a favourable salary offer when responses came. However, the same bill was brought back to life this time, the night of our 13 martyrs, by being cunningly involved in an unconcerned scheme. Are the academics who serve under very difficult conditions only to do favors to friends of the AKP Group who are academic MP while the academics who have been removed from their duties in accordance with the laws of the law are on one side? What injury did those friends have, and what collateral damage will they receive? While our people are in unemployment, poverty and poverty, our country, especially terrorism, has all the problems, it is not moral and conscientious to bring this bill to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As the Supreme Assembly casts a shadow on his spiritual character, he's history as a patron of shame. I want this motion withdrawn immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0043par0182	Finally, Mr. Sword... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0044par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. It's good to share. If the flower in the park is torn, one person will have a thousand if it doesn't. He who eats his bread alone carries its burden, and he draws his own with his teeth. And on the Day of Resurrection, it will be all alone. The shared joy doubles, and the shared pain halves. When you think of yourself, someone else thinks of himself. Most people think it's about taking success, but it's about giving success, sharing. In that sense, Ramadan is to share the fast, the good deed, the sahhur, the honor, the teraviohi, the joy, the sadness, the existence, the absence, the love, the friendship, the hunger, the bread, the brotherhood, the neighborhood.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0043par0187	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0045par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. On June 4, 1981, after the military intervention of September 12, 1981, I commemorate Cevdet Karakaş, who was hanged in Elazığ Closed Prison earlier in the morning and died, and on June 5, 1983, the country's martyrs Halil Esendağ and Selçuk Durakık, who marched to Hakkk to Hakkk. They paid the price of their lives for loving this country, for loving this nation, for being tried in a court of justice without justice. Many people have been killed and injured because of the terrorist incidents in the Philippines and Britain. Wherever terror comes from, wherever it comes from, we condemn it with violence and curse it all. Mr. President, yesterday was June 5th, World Environment Day. It was accepted as World Environment Day on 5 June at the United Nations Environment and Human Conference in Stockholm in 1972. In the first article of the adopted declaration, the human right to freedom, equality, and adequate living conditions in a qualified environment that allows him to lead a honorable and good life is fundamental. • Forty-five years have passed since the declaration was adopted, but the sensitivity of the public today has increased a bit, but the problems that nature is trying to deal with have increased. And I think that we should not allow the destruction of olive groves and concreteization as the Grand Assembly of Turkey in a week when we celebrate Environmental Day in the bag of legislation that we're going to be meeting today. And I congratulate Malatyaspor, Sivasspor, and Göztepe on going out to the Super League, celebrating their fans. And, Mr. President, after the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, there are men who have somehow participated in this coup attempt, there are military students, there are specialist sergeants or very low-level officers. Especially amongst these, the privates, the military students...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0046par0198	Please complete in one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0045par0200	...the arrests of senior sergeants continue, a significant portion of them are being tried as prisoners, and some of them have not even been tried, they have no indictments. Of course, these families visit us all the time. It's impossible for these young children to be in a coup anyway, and they don't have that kind of willpower. So I think it's time to give them some good news before the holidays. In addition, students who attended different kinds of universities of applied sciences or military schools in various ways also suffered a loss of rights, and nearly 17,000 students were lost. Some of these kids were students, some of them were graduates, and now we have to do a security investigation here to eliminate them. It would be extremely wrong to treat all of them like GERPs. They are also prevented from entering other professions, and their diplomas are taken with this KHK. Something that will be written in the form of this branding... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think this process is right. And I think it's appropriate for the government to be more careful about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0047par0205	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0048par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. June 5th, yes, it's important in two ways. First: The attack on our Diyarbakır rally on June 5, 2015 and the anniversary of a day when we lost five of our citizens and then there were many wounded, perhaps a turning point for many things in Turkey. We honor the people we lost there with love and respect. And unfortunately, after that, many attacks were witnessed by this country. These were ISIS attacks, and they came to this day in a row because the darkness of that day did not appear. On the other side of June 5th, it's Earth Environment Day, and it's a day when the value of the whole world and our living spaces is highlighted. In terms of Turkey, our country is the fourth in the world's olive tree existence, the second in the cooking olive production, and the fifth in the production of olive oil. In Turkey, which is from the leading countries of olives and olive oil in the world, olive fields are protected by laws adopted in the early years of the republic, but unfortunately, during AKP rule, the law has been asked to be changed six times, and we are now facing a new proposal with the same law. Whereas it's a great deal of public interest in the cutting down and turning of olive trees, one of our country's greatest natural riches, a symbol of peace, and turning them into industrial areas.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0049par0212	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0048par0213	Thank you. And really, most of the time, there's talk of public benefit and, in general, of treason in everything, but actually doing this to olive groves, to mere areas is a betrayal to this country's people and to this country, and we really shouldn't do it together. In Turkey, we hope that you will listen for once to these sounds as everyone raises their voices in this sense. Because really, when we look at it, for example, it is already beginning to give away the initial tremors in Bursa, for example. In Denizli, we read that the municipality has changed its development to open a gas station in the olive grove, and these will follow.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0049par0216	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0048par0217	These are our living areas, our lungs. I grew up with olive groves, and many of the MPs here grew up with trees, and we came from such childhoods, and we have to leave these for future generations. We don't want to live a life trapped in cages, concrete buildings, shopping malls, and we don't want all of Turkey's people to listen to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0049par0219	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0050par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the Republican People's Party, congratulate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the Göztepe Sports Club, its technical staff, its football players, but more importantly, the fan of Göztepe, İzmir. Of course, we must express our grief for Eskişehir on this occasion. We wish our Malatyaspor, who has previously been in the Super League, our Sivasspor, our congratulations. We send our regrets to Rizespor, Gaziantepspor, Adanaspor, who fell from the Super League. Let's send our regrets to Rize, Antwerp, and Adana, to our citizens there, and to the fans on this occasion, Mr. President. Mr. President, on every occasion, political parties in Parliament, both the government and the Parliament, speak of Turkey as a state of law. But when the judgment turns into the stick of politics... every day, it doesn't happen. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who insulted his mother and brother, Süleyman Yeşilyurt was arrested on May 12th, five days later his indictment was filed, and he was released on June 1st, 13 days later. We face a judgment that legitimizes the insult to Ataturk. No matter how I decide in Turkey, I won't upset Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We're dealing with judges, judges who think. On the other hand, some of the presidents and writers of the Republic newspaper...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0051par0226	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0050par0227	Two hundred and eighteen days in prison, no indictment. A political party's leader, co-captain, group vice presidents in prisons. For no reason, it is clear how much the judiciary in Turkey boasts that a concept that keeps the leader of a political party, the members of the group, the MPs, and the MPs in prison, is being released from the prison, while their crimes have not yet been fixed. I hereby warn the judicial community that for you, the only guide is the universal rule of law. It is shameful, immoral, immoral to judge by the eyes of political power. I present to the General Assembly and to the public, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0052par0231	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0053par0233	Mr. President, as the public is aware, the July 15th treasonous coup attempt trial is being carried out by independent courts. It is our nation's expectation that justice will be served and the treacherous coupgers will receive the punishment they deserve. In this regard, we, members of our Central Executive Board representing the EC PARTY, went to Sincan, where the coup attempt was launched to support our fallen families. Of course, the first victim of this coup case is our beloved nation, and we, the victim political party, will follow the public conscience of this case, and we will follow every stage of the case. It is our wish that the nation's sons be punished by traitors who point guns at people's money, who send bullets and bombs to the people. In the event of a coup, the coup d'états caught red-handed in the face of shooting people in the face show the contempt, betrayal of the nation, hatred of the people, and hatred of the court on July 15th. These murderers, who behave in a court of law, think they're going to make fun of people's minds by being cheeky. Let's not forget that during this trial, we will always be there for our fallen families. Our martyrs, our veterans, are the honor, honor of this country, sons of praise. Their families are in our care. For on the night of the 15th of July, they first took possession of their homeland, leaving their wives, brothers, and children. Their orphaned children are responsible for each and every one of them. We also condemn some of the governments that still protect and protect these treacherous coupgers caught red-handed in front of the whole world. When we have so many martyrs and gasses, while our people and public buildings have been bombarded with bombs, the lack of courage of governments who still seek evidence of the coup attempt to extradite the coupters is an example to humanity. It is our desire that our martyrs' blood remain on the ground, so that the scales of justice can work, and the cases can be concluded as soon as possible.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0054par0239	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0053par0240	Our expectation as the victim political party is that these low-profile coupkers will be punished to a degree of deterrent punishment in Turkey that no one will ever again dare to point a weapon at the nation and attempt a coup. Another issue: We have expressed it this way, and it is not possible for us to accept any such thing as insulting Ataturk, or blasphemy, to anyone who has worked at the establishment of this country, particularly Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who is fighting for this country, who is contributing to this country. We have strongly condemned this, and I'd like to rephrase that. Ataturk is not the monopoly of any political party; Turkey is a common value; it is the Bani of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0055par0243	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of the Law on Ordering Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620, Ankara MP Zühal Topcu is submitted to the information of the General Assembly on the membership of the Parliamentary Council, which has been declared by the Nationalist Movement Party in accordance with Article 12 (also referred to in Article 12) of the Parliamentary Council of Turkey-European Union. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems caused by the contamination of the province of Kahramanmarash on agricultural soil, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of our Constitutional Assembly of Turkey. 1) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 12) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] 15) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] One needs a healthy environment before one can move on with one's life. It is possible for him to move on, to feed and to satisfy his needs with a completely healthy environment. The rapid development of the industrial revolution, the growth of cities, the increase in vehicle use, rapid industrialization, and in response, increasing pollution in planning and environmental regulations has led to health and environmental problems in Kahramanmarash. As in many cities, pollution is important in Kahramanmarash as its growing sizes are soil pollution. Excessive population concentration in certain areas, unplanned industrialization and deviant urbanization, and at the same time the amount of waste and material produced by unnecessary and excessive use of resources, has grown so much in recent years that it is often impossible for nature to self-absorbed the waste that has been thrown into the buyers without any measure and without control, and with environmental pollution growing today. City waste due to soil pollution in agricultural areas, waste waste, construction and debris waste, waste waste waste waste waste mineral oils, waste battery and battery fluids, plant waste oils, polychlorine biphenyls and polychlorine tarphenyls, tires, waste electrical and electronics that have completed its life, (carved) vehicles, iron and steel sector and waste waste waste waste, coal-powered thermal plants and waste-washing plants, waste-washing wastes, medical biphenyls, medical waste and minerals, and mineral wastes that have been contaminated with polychlorite waste, or mining soils that have brought its life-spans to an end, or agricultural agriculture. Creating a healthy environment and a high quality of life is only possible if environmental problems are resolved. In order to create a cleaner and habitable environment, environmental awareness must first be created in society. In search of the reasons for the pollution of the agricultural land of Kahramanmarash, one of our country's major agricultural provinces, it is beneficial to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMM Institution, in order to determine the measures which should be taken by investigating the allegations that the wastewater treatment plant in Balıkesir's Ayvalik district has been abandoned directly to the sea by the 4,000 cubic metres of sewage a day, not being run since 17 December. [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[Erzurum]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] 8) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Isparta]] [[Ankara]] 12) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] 18) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] It turns out that it was built with a do-and-do model in Balıkesir's Ayvaluk district, and that the wastewater treatment plant that started three years ago had not been activated since December 17th, and that 4,000 cubic cubic metres of daily sewage waste had been dropped directly into the sea. The wastewater treatment plant, which was spent $15m on Ayvaluk, was launched on 19 November 2013. Cokovoglu, who runs the Ayvaluk Waste Water Purification Facility, has shut down the operation of the facility on the grounds that he cannot collect $2,500,000 from the City Municipality Water and Sewer Affairs Directorate. Eight personnel, including the manager and the guard, were also notified by the Balıkesir Water and Sewerization Administration (BASKI), where work of a facility capable of desalination of 4,000 cubic metres of waste water is halted a day. Since December 17th, it has been reported by the company that Ayvaluk's wastewater has been released into the sea without decontaminating. BASKI said that the company went to the concordato, not because of what the wastewater treatment plant would receive, but because the employer had no economic power. BASKI claims that the sea discharge is 1,200 metres long and 35 metres deep and that the waste was immediately destroyed, but says that there is nothing to be afraid of, but the town of Ayvalık, which has an important place for tourism with our country's sea, faces massive sea pollution. Therefore, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental inquiry under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Administration, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure the necessary measures to the problems of which Balıkesir's waste water treatment plant has been left directly to the sea, not being run since 17 December. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The core of our country's economy and social structure has been facing various challenges, especially in recent years, our tradesmen and artists. In addition to threatening the continuity of the economic and social lives of our tradesmen and artists, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104, 104, and 105, of Constitution 98, to determine the measures to be taken by investigating these problems. [[Osmaniye]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Isparta]] 8) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 10) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Erzurum]] [[Aydın]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] [[Kayseri]] 20) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] According to 31/1/2016 of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey, there are 1,602,182 tradesmen and artists, 1,725,634 businesses in our country. When we consider our country's economy with objective data, it will be seen especially at the point of sustaining the existence of small businesses. In 2015, the total number of people who have been able to follow legally due to individual credit or individual credit card debt increased by 3 per cent to 1,331,305 people, according to 2014. Given the data obtained by the count of people with multiple records in the same year, the number of persons who followed legally due to individual loan debt increased by 8 per cent in 2015, with 725,000 in 2015. As of January 2016, 995,957 bonds were protested within a year. The same period of protesting amount is 10 billion, 228,22,000 TL. Again, for the same period, a bad check is 772,412. The amount of these checks is $27,374 billion. This data on debtors reveals the problem that the citizen faces today, which directly affects the exchange and, naturally, our large, small tradesmen and artists. With the problems of the tradesmen and our artists exposed, shopping malls (AVM) have added to the problems of reaching almost every town and county. To eliminate this negativity, the Law on the Order of retail trade number 6585 has been passed to prevent unfair competition, but the law cannot meet those expectations. The malls (AVM) are in danger of the destruction of our tradesmen and artists, as large market chains open branches to the most rural areas, and they are not in certain standards, but in very large areas. For these reasons, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104, 105, the 98th and Interior Law of the Constitution, to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problems of our tradesmen and artists. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. I'm going to read the motion now: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The foundation of the national economy is agriculture. "In 1936, the Great Leader Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk founded the Tekir Cooperative with 36 partners from 10 villages, saying that agriculture is of great importance. Ataturk's number 1. This co-op is Turkey's first agricultural loan co-op, and agricultural loan co-ops are step by step in its present situation. However, over the past few years, the General Directorate of Agriculture Credit Co-ops has been on the agenda with reports of irregularities and corruption, rather than contributions to our farmers and Turkish agriculture. It is clear that the minister neglected his duties, failed to carry out his responsibilities, allowed the loss of Agriculture Credit Co-operatives, and thus victimised all our people and especially our farmers. For all these reasons, we respectfully propose and provide for Mr Faruk Çelik, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, that the Constitution be opened under the 98th and 99th Amendment, the 106th Amendment. Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ahmet Akın Mustafa Tuncer Serkan Topal Kazim Azlan Mazlum Nurlu Melike Basmacı Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Vecdi Gündoğdu Moonbeater Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Omar Fethi Gürer Mehmet All Didem Engin Hüseyin Çamak Serdal Kerelcuoğlu Nur Halat Altaca Kayışoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Ali Akyıldız Onurlı Adıl Corruptions that broke out in 2014 in the Agricultural Loan Foods Inc, which could not be controlled prior to 2014, were no longer concealed by fake and counter-real balance sheets; the damage in 2011, 2012 and 2013 turned out to be 50 million, 23,444,96 cents. After the process, the agricultural loan co-ops, which were constantly negatively on the agenda, also brought up the general manager's $100,000 salary report; Food, Agriculture and Petty Minister Faruk Çelik did not respond to the general manager's net salary in the written question proposal. In addition, members of the board appointed to their companies of Agriculture Credit Cooperatives have been seen to be appointed as members of the ruling party as if there were no farmers or managers with another opinion in Turkey. With 98 per cent of Asian pension shares purchased by Agriculture Credit Co-op, the co-op opened a 20,000-dollar name contest between December 9th and 14th 2016 to find a new name for the taken-over company, but the results of the competition have not been announced, although months have passed since the competition, an advertising agency has been paid 660,800 euros to announce the competition. Again, a firm in Romania was brought up to send 3m euros without any guarantees and completely contrary to institutional legislation, while photos of imported patients, dead animals were shared and recommended, Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister Faruk Çelik remained silent and did not give public responses. The director of Agriculture Credit Co-ops took a partisan stance by sending a message to his partners the day before the April 16th constitutional amendment referendum. Minister Faruk Çelik's insensitivity and lack of administrative and judicial investigation into the allegations have led to a major lack of governance in Agriculture Credit Co-ops, increasing corruption and irregularity in the co-op has resulted in significant public damage. As reported above, it is clear that the minister neglected his duties, failed to carry out his responsibilities, allowed the loss of Agriculture Loan Cooperatives, and ultimately victimised our people and especially our farmers. Due to the following reasons, we respectfully propose and supply for the opening of the geneor in accordance with the 98th and 99th amendments of our Constitution of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Minister Mr. Faruk Çelik. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will then be determined and submitted to your votes on the day of the pre-interview session. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 6/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 5 June 2015, a bomb attack took place at our party's rally in Diyarbakır Station Square. Two years later, the case of the explosion continues. On 5 June 2017, Diyarbakır MP Sibel Yiğitalp and his friends (number 4744) recommended that the parliamentary inquiry be submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to determine the negligence of those who had been neglected and to be investigated for their negligence in this bloody attack be read in the same session of Tuesday's 6/6/2017 jointment, and that the meeting be met in the same date. The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal belongs to Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0056par0465	Mr. President, I've made a promise to talk to you about the research motion we've filed as HDP MPs. On 5 June 2015, two years ago, a bomb attack was launched on our party's final rally in Diyarbakır Station Square. First, I'd like to start by remembering Ali Türkmen, 65, who died in this bloody attack, Sheikhmus, 34, the Necati Council, 47, the 17-year-old Civan Arslan, 16-year-old Ramadan Yıldız. Nearly 400 of our citizens were injured in this explosion, and dozens of them lost their limbs, and they have to live like that. So, why did this attack happen, and what was the background of this attack? In fact, the attack occurred because it was against HDP's desire to live together against the monotheistic system; again it was because the HDP was equal sexist; again it was against HDP's policy that all ethnic and religious differences living in Turkey were united, rich and respectful. What was behind this, what did ISIS do, and what was the construction of ISIS? Actually, we need to talk about this first. Before June 5th today, who were the perpetrators of this process and who were protected and who were the perpetrators involved with? This is just the tip of the iceberg. In 2013, Adıyaman, a man named Mustafa Dokumcı, contacted ISIS and set up a teahouse in Adıyaman, and took his brother with him and started their relationship with ISIS there. It's a very recent situation. These Weavers also became an organized criminal organization by adding members to ISIS, operating through these elements, and by providing them with their transition to Syria. In 2014, the families of these young ones applied to the police, and we are concerned about the lives of our children, who may have joined ISIS or DAEŞ. Do a procedure on this. However, the information received from the police is that your children are over 18 years old, and we can't do anything. We can't arrest them if they don't act. We know very well that people are being arrested in this country against the potential to protest, but when it comes to ISIS, people are being treated like democratic attitudes. So, what happened in 2015? After the families went to the police, after applying for these answers, they met with the Prime Minister of that period, Mr. Davutoglu, who went to Adıyaman. They said to Mr. Davutoglu: "Look, our children have joined ISIS. We'd like to do a procedure on these. What did Mr. Davutoglu say? Mr. Davutoglu said: "What should I do? Shall I sit at the table with Assad? I can only inform MIT. He said an unfortunate thing like that again. Again, in that turn, Mr. Davutoglu used words like these angry children, such as this, and such as this, that would actually stop the mind. Other than that, for example, at the same time, there was a survey of these weavers that I mentioned by the police and a list of 20 people. I'm reading you the list of 20 people. This team of 20 men has Orhan Erak, the man who committed the Diyarbakır massacre. However, the Sheikh Abdurrahman of the same team slaughtered the young men of Alagöz Suruç. Yunus Emre Alagöz and Ömer Deniz Dündar of the same team killed 109 people at the Ankara Peace rally. Again, despite the fact that there have been dozens of public appearances about those who have committed so many massacres, it's possible to see them as almost one-on-one responsible for the massacres of Ankara, Suruç, Amed, for having done nothing, unfortunately, the Department of Internal Affairs and law enforcement at that time. Again, the revelation is: The person whose name is also on the list, who has been on the list for months in technical surveillance -- Orhan Post -- who has done the June 5 massacre in Diyarbakır -- comes to Turkey on May 6, 2015 and to Diyarbakır on June 2nd, and is taken into custody because of the lack of attendance at the hotel in which he was staying on June 3rd. But what's it called when you look at it? He's just being tried and released. However, this person was wanted for ISIS membership, and his family had repeatedly shared their concerns with the police. So he's being taken into custody, released, released on June 5th, he's being released as a fugitive, a deserter, but even though his family had been in constant contact with the Prime Minister before... his family also informs the Prime Minister, and he says, "This is the case of my child, stay on it." Yet this person is being released, and on June 5th, he comes to Diyarbakır to look us all in the eye and he's doing that massacre. So, what did the Diyarbakır Police Department do? That day there were 2,360 police officers -- I was there that day, our fellow lawmakers were there -- but there were no proper police; there were no police; there were no police; there were no police at the point of search, and there were no police at all. The interesting thing is, there are dozens of TOMAs coming to the smallest press release we can make in Diyarbakır, hundreds of armored vehicles stopping there, safety measures are taken against the slightest of our conversations, but where there were thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, unfortunately, there were no measures. It wasn't enough for him, but even though this massacre was committed, what did he do in this massacre when people, identities, relationships were so public, when it was obvious? He instructed the officers involved in the rally to reward money, as well as to show the pre-meeting measures, yes. After the bloody explosion, I also want to draw attention to the statement taken from Postal Anti-Terror Branch; what did he say? Send it to me. They told me to blow up the bomb. I said, "Yes." I said, "Yes." When the police are testifying, the police are saying this to the police, his testimony -- the indictment we received from these lawyers -- don't call me a weed business, accept the bomb. You'll be out for a year. The government will take care of you, and when you leave, they'll give you a new identity. It's the first time I've seen anyone here. During the trial, they asked the lawyers who were in charge of the case: "A day after the explosion, you sent a message to Bali and İsmail Korkmaz. This number is registered to Abdullah Karaca. You're going into the blast zone with a bag. Didn't the cops ever call you? Like this, the name of İsli Balı is considered to be the prime suspect in the investigations carried out in Diyarbakır, Sur and Ankara's 10 October Peace rally massacres and in four different cities related to the attack in İstanbul. So, where is this person? This person has been followed by terror and intelligence units since 2002, served a short time in prison from membership in the organization; from 2012 to 2013, he has made seven official crossings through border crossings. This individual, officially entering and exiting the border, is responsible for these massacres and is currently wanted with a red bulletin. However, in 2012, if this person had been caught in 2013... a man with an official entrance, a man with a passport, seven times in and out, lying in and out because of ISIS, a man in technical pursuit, and yet he is not arrested, even though he is officially acting, perhaps he is being watched there, perhaps knowingly, slaughtering. More than 300 people died today because of these individuals, 300 people. It's a terrible number, we're talking about 300 people, and the safety of these 300 lives is entirely the responsibility of this country, the state and this government. As he was saying now, Mr. President of the AKP -- I can't decide which one -- I'm even responsible for a sheep that went missing from the west of Firat. Look, it's such a big sentence, but 300 people, 300 lives. While these people are in technical pursuit and their technical surveillance phone records, their messages are all over the press, the massacre of these people is officially being watched quietly, and he's not enough; he's being taken into custody because he's a deserter. There's so much to say, everyone's in a lot of pain, death is heard every day, death is spoken of here every day and every day. We're telling the perpetrators, we're telling them how it happened, and we're talking about concrete facts, but here, interestingly enough, there's an appeal based on rejection in every way. I believe your stance on the establishment of a research commission on this will be rejected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last sentence.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0057par0480	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0056par0481	Because the motion that we gave earlier on child rape -- very interesting -- was even rejected, the motions we submitted for women's abuses were rejected; again, all the motions we submitted on the activities of ISIS regarding this were rejected, and research commissions were denied. I believe that today the whole world is waging war against ISIS, while everyone is fighting a common war against ISIS, of course it has a responsibility to this country and especially the Parliament, and it has a moral responsibility to take part in this commission and accept it. Of course people will remember these days. In the public conscience, people are condemned. But I also say that those who do these things, those who do these massacres, those who are silent, those who allow them, those who call them angry children, will surely and will surely be condemned.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0057par0483	Mr. Mush, you're in the system, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0058par0486	Mr. President, we, both the AK PARTI power and the state of the Republic of Turkey, are giving the same decisive fight not only to the DHKP-C, but to the PKK and to all other terrorist organizations. Operation Firat Shield (Bahiş) and Dahiş were given the greatest casualties and the greatest loss of the Republic of Turkey by the state, and we will continue to fight this relentless war with DAİSİŞ, as well as with other terrorist organizations. I wanted to make that very clear.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0057par0487	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0059par0494	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group against the motion issued by the HDP group. I hereby salute your high council. As I begin my words, I pray for the mercy of the Lord God of God to whom we lost in the fatal helicopter crash last week in Shenoba. Of course, we have learned that on the last June 2nd, the New Free Policy (Free Agenda) newspaper has found that there is a very bad news that will make us bleed. Is there or is there not any process that has ever been done by the state's prosecutors in connection with this report? From here, Mr. President, I request you, Mr. President, to conduct the necessary examination of this newspaper that has attacked our heroes so brutally, fighting for Turkey's peace and back under very difficult conditions in the east and southeast. Because this news is really bad news, where it's going to hurt the relatives of our heroic martyrs, hurt all our heroes fighting terrorism. Now, I would like to reflect with you under a few topics as to what happened in Diyarbakır on June 5, 2015. First, of course, we had processes in Turkey that marked the fight against terrorism. Immediately at the end of these processes, the election atmosphere created grounds for those who wanted to lead Turkey into chaos, and those who were using it lit up a bomb that would lead Turkey into chaos on June 5th in Diyarbakir. Of course, if we carefully examine the processes that Turkey is going through here, perhaps it is possible to reach a ground that will allow all of us to think a little bit more clearly about the future. Instead of fighting terrorism, the basis for negotiations with terrorism, of course, brought up many other problems in Turkey. When we look at that process, instead of fighting terrorism, we look at the negotiation process, and on the other side, there's an environment where the state has seriously taken over the intelligence units, and when we put all the terrorist incidents in Turkey today on the table, there's a weakness of intelligence in all of them. Why? In recent years, the structure within the state's most damaged state has been intelligence structure, and the damage to this structure... of course, you can't fight terrorism on the street, you can't fight terrorism based on the intelligence you've collected. In that sense, Turkey has entered a really difficult process. On December 17-25 -- that's how the AKP always takes power -- but there is no successful security structure in that sense at the time. However, on July 15th, new work has been done in both the police and the police and the MİT (MIT) in order to restructure the intelligence with steps taken after bombs were dropped on everyone's heads, and a number of employment activities have been restarted. But since there was a long-term lack of memory, since the gap in what had not been done at that time could not be filled, today, especially with the lack of stability in Iraq and Syria, there is a much clearer view of the help done to terrorist organisations today, with major states involved. The goal of all terrorist organizations in Turkey is to create chaos, I tell my master, to wear the state down, to weaken state authority, which means there's always been a co-operation among terrorist organizations. It is also possible to see this very clearly in our recent history; the PKK is also known for the existence of a number of events that have been co-ordinated between the PKK and ISIS. But beyond that, there are reckonings among terrorist organizations. In Turkey, of course, the factors aimed at creating chaos in the June 2015 elections have also taken action. In particular, it is necessary to consider, examine, and examine this explosion in Diyarbakır. Gene here has done police investigations regarding police officers who have been neglected at work in this case, but there's another thing to see here: after July 15th, some of these police officers have been expelled under a decree of law enforcement, so it is necessary to reevaluate who they are, who they are, who they are, who they're being instructed from. Of course, the judicial process continues. If we take a good look at the July 15th process, one of the institutions in Turkey is also the most vulnerable. A third of the members of the judiciary were suspended after July 15th. Taking into account this, there is also serious work done in Turkey, especially after the 2010 referendum, during which judicial activities have been interrupted. Let's hope that the reconstruction of the judiciary and the judiciary will not cause everyone to fall short of Turkish justice, which everyone will once again rely on. In that sense, all acts of terrorism must be properly questioned, judged, and brought to the conclusion. The establishment of a research commission in connection with an ongoing judicial process is already not right or logical. In this regard, I say again that we are against HDP's group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0060par0503	Thank you. The second word in favour of the proposal is İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0507	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, June 5th, 2015 was two days before the June 7th elections, and the outcome of the June 7th elections was more or less obvious, depending on the polls. Therefore, on June 5th, we need to read the explosion in Diyarbakir as a step not only as an explosion at the Peoples' Democratic Party rally, but also as a step in the process after that. So the process that we went to November 1st, the process that we went to July 15th and the process that we went to the referendum on April 16th, according to me, was the explosion in Diyarbakir, on June 5, 2015. From there it began, and so we came to this day, and on April 16th, Turkey was dragged into an autocratic regime, which aims to govern one man, to disable parliament, and that's when a mind and a higher mind that you often say came into play and ISIS was used, but nothing was done. I'll tell you now, if you have any answers, you can come in here and say it one by one. Dear friends, look, before the June 5th elections, we talked a lot about all the activities of ISIS here, but you didn't take any precautions. Until then, I insisted on speaking on this bench to see if there was a terrorist organization called ISIS. From here, a servant of God did not respond from the Justice and Development Party. I like to talk with documents. Look, the Supreme Court decision dated April 7, 2015... when you were fighting against ISIS, the ISIS terrorist organization. The Supreme Court violates the decision of the Gaziantep High Criminal Court. Why does it ruin it? It says: "You have punished this man for ISIS organization, but whether there is an organization called ISIS, whether there is a decision by the Security General Directorate or not, investigate it first." Until then, the government under the Justice and Development Party did not define an organization called ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq) as a terrorist organization. That's why the Supreme Court is making this decision until 2015. (x) Until 2015, the Justice and Development Party government allowed Turkey's ISIS and the global ISIS organization to operate in Syria and Iraq through Turkey -- we made it clear and we continue to express it here until 2015. Until when? Until your power, to your absolute power. What happened after that? Look, dear friends, what happened? Suruç was on July 20th. Before that, there was an ISIS attack in Kobani, where 172 people were killed, and then there was an attack on Suruç, and immediately after that, this came and no research could be done. We, the people who read public sources, had much more information, and you didn't do anything. What happened after that? On July 22nd, two police officers were killed in Ceylanpınar. They had a hearing last week, and the defendants were released because their fingerprints didn't match. Why does that matter? On 23 July, Davutoglu gathered the Security Summit at Çankaya Mansion and broke the process of resolving the attack. This attack remained in the dark, no one knows who the perpetrators were, but it broke down on this one, and then there was the process leading up to November 1st. The coalition could not be established, either chaos or stability. It was said that ditchs and barricades were dug in eastern, southeast cities; the solution process was solved and on October 10th there was a Gar attack. Do you know what Prime Minister Davutoglu said after this Gar attack? We have intel, we know who they are, but we don't catch them because they need to act. In fact, Davutoglu was telling the truth because that's what the information was passed on to him. Since ISIS was not declared a terrorist organization until then, there was no way to detain those who acted in his favour in any way, and there was no way to do detentions in Gaziantep, Adıyaman, Diyarbakır. And what happened after that? The same Davutoglu said, "Our votes are increasing after that explosion." Van went to talk to him, and he said, "If we don't come to power alone, the stability will go bad, the Toros will go around." He said, "We went to the November 1st elections." And then there was the process that we came to July 15th, and that Parliament lifted the immunity. The date of the operation against a political party -- I claim here -- is June 5, 2015. Yes, immunity has been lifted; I think it's wrong, though it's wrong, but what we're talking about today is not the removal of immunity; the issue we're talking about today is the arrest of lawmakers, the matter of their arrest, the issue is this. Look, dear friends, the Constitutional Court is the same Supreme Court, members are the same members, the Constitution is the same Constitution. When did they decide? On 4 December 2013, Mustafa Balbay's decision. Please read paragraph 111, read paragraph 111. The Constitutional Court, the 19th and 67th article of the Constitutional Court, has decided according to this Constitutional Court. So, what now? For ten months, the head of a political party cannot appear in court. The court gives as far a date as possible. His children are being victimized, his relatives are being sent from Diyarbakır to Edirne. His trial is being sent from Diyarbakır to Ankara. The cases of the group's vice presidents are being banished. The most remote days are being given, and you're doing them. You were victims, you were wrongdoers. I keep telling you, you've been cruel. Let me come to the matter of myself, dear friends. Friends, look, these are my honor, these proceedings, but for you, it will be a disgrace in your history, a disgrace. Do you know when you listened to me? September 2010, October, November. I'm not a congressman, I'm not a member of any political party, I'm a lawyer in Diyarbakır. I'm one of the hundreds of people you threw out today who decided to listen to judges, prosecutors, cops. Rested, three months, as far as I know. When did I get some rest? Lawmakers, I'm telling you. I was rested in 2010. When did the transcripts go to the D.A.'s office? In 2010. When is Fezleke coming to the House? In 2017. So, I'm asking, if this is a crime, where are the prosecutors and the judges who haven't processed my wiretaps for seven years? Now, he's being sent to a hearing about me. Won't you be quiet at all? Don't you ever get blushed or anything?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0516	Why would we blush?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0517	Yeah, you need to blush.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0518	Why do you think we're blushing, brother?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0519	Look, that's what you get from the prosecutors you've made the decision to listen to. As for you, that's the law for us, isn't it Mehmet Ali Bey? Is that it?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0520	Brother, you tell those people who did it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0521	You want me to tell you who did it? You listened to me in 2010. Come and read these transcripts. One of them is my brother, and the transcripts of my brother were placed here. Isn't it forbidden? Why don't you throw it away, why don't you?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0522	Maybe, but why are you accusing us?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0523	You're in charge, you're your prosecutors and judges, so you're in charge, so you're in charge.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0524	We don't have a prosecutor, we don't have a judge.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0525	Look, immunity was lifted in 2016. The Ministry of Justice has sent a general order to all prosecutors. If you have an investigation of lawmakers in your hands, send it to them. Ask me... You will protect my law, not me.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0526	Of course we will...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0527	Then go out and talk. In 2016...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0529	... But don't falsely accuse us.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0530	Yes, he's a disgrace to you, a disgrace.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0062par0532	Don't falsely accuse us.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0533	Look, this Parliament is the parliament that changed the Constitution and made Recep Tayyip Erdogan MP when he was on political ban. But now the same Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Justice and Development Party are trying to reduce the parliamentary position of lawmakers with the same unlawfulness. That's your law? I'm asking, is that it, or is that it? That the congressman is under arrest? That's the law? [[Applause from CHP rows]] This Parliament has reduced the legislature of a general president, this Parliament has made an MP, and now the President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0063par0536	You're so right.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0537	Quiet... Come, speak here, and I'll answer you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0064par0538	Speak without shouting, without shouting. Calm down!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0539	Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0065par0540	Don't give orders from there. This is the Capitol, he yells, what's it to you?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0061par0541	Come here, answer me. Come here, answer me. Shameless!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0066par0542	Don't shout there, don't shout here. Where will he shout, where will he speak? You've turned the whole place into a prison.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0067par0543	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Godkulu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0068par0545	Dear friends, look, from my own historical point of view, I consider it an honor to be called the thief, the murderer. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0067par0548	The People's Democratic Party Group proposal...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0069par0549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0067par0550	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0069par0551	You've been victimized, you've been cruel. You're not fighting against terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0067par0552	Come on Mr. Mush, I'll give you two minutes without picking on you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0069par0557	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've tried to be there for the underdog from day one, and from now on, we'll continue to be there for the underdog.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0070par0558	Mehmet, I think we're going to laugh here, we're going to laugh here! That was the laughing part.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0069par0559	We have never been unjust, nor have We patted the wrong-doers on the backs of the wrong-doers. Turkey has constantly fought against terrorist organisations under different names, a country that knows that its geography is a difficult geography, and in various times, it has fought against terrorist organizations under different names; it has fought, then it has fought, then it has fought, it has fought, it has fought DHKP-C (DEŞ). You don't fight them, you don't fight them. It's inappropriate to use such an expression. It's unacceptable. While Turkey is fighting these terrorist organizations, someone can't show up under those terror organization rags and teach us a lesson in law from this bench.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0070par0562	Who showed you, tell me your name, who? Who showed them in rags there?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0069par0563	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let no one try to achieve anything by blaming power over things that aren't here. Look, a terrorist was killed recently, and the media had a different way of putting it, but then it turned out he was a terrorist with a gun. Now, what we would expect from Mr. Godkulu is that he doesn't mind taking his photo behind him and walking in front of him, he doesn't feel uncomfortable about it, he doesn't feel uncomfortable about it; he's a terrorist. But when you get out of here, Turkey doesn't fight terrorism, it's entitled to say so. I'm sorry, that's out of the question. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0071par0567	Is ISIS your anti-terror organization?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0568	Sir, speaking of my name...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0073par0569	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0570	There's an open taunt, so there's no need to explain it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0073par0571	What did he say?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0074par0572	He accused the MP of giving photos under the terror organization flag.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0573	Sir, there's an explanation. Look, I don't think you're listening.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0073par0574	I have to ask you, Mr. Godkulu, what did he say to tease you?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0575	Sir, the one who walks under the window, then behind the photo...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0073par0576	Here, I promise you two minutes of teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0579	Dear friends, look, I have opposed terrorism and terrorism my whole life, such as Ankara, Istanbul, this Parliament, not Diyarbakır. Your mayors know it best, the best Diyarbakır MPs know it. You can't come in here and be such a cheap bully, never. I opposed all of them.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0075par0580	You're the bully. You're the bully.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0072par0581	I don't know who walked behind me or who didn't. I'm walking up front and that trip...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0076par0582	We're walking there for a trip.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0075par0583	Do you approve of them?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0076par0584	Yeah, we walked for the trip, and we always walk.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0077par0585	Look, it's a hike, a memorial march, a memorial march.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0078par0586	Keep moving, keep moving!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0077par0587	It's a memorial march, dear friends.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0079par0588	Look, see who he's with? Who's he with?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0077par0589	Look, dear friends, you look at these... my forehead is clear. Your prosecutors are already investigating, you're holding it open. Let them talk about them, we're ready to answer, but you'll drown in the blood you shed.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0080par0590	They will, sir. There's no problem. It's the state of law.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0077par0591	You have blood on your hands, because the murderers of those who died in the trip were those who commanded them; and they were those who commanded them, who killed those who died in the trip.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0081par0592	Look, it's not here, it's not here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0082par0593	What's there, what's there? What are you showing? What have you got there? Nothing, I was there.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0077par0594	So there's nothing we can't account for. I was a lawyer in Diyarbakır province for twenty-five years, not a terrorist, but seven years after the Justice and Development Party ruling, I faced such a trial. Is that justice? You should be ashamed, you shouldn't stand behind this; you should be ashamed, you shouldn't stand behind it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0081par0595	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0082par0596	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0083par0597	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0084par0598	In any way, dear friends, wherever you want... I'm arguing with the President of the Human Rights Commission from yesterday on Twitter, and I'm calling here, so let's argue here or look at the media he wants, he's published a promise that I didn't say in a way that I didn't write.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0085par0599	You're a congressman who says, "Economic sanction your own country."
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0084par0600	That's the title of the President of your Human Rights Commission, and that's what you are.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0085par0601	You're a congressman who says, "Economic sanction your own country." What law are you talking about?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0084par0602	Your aim is to deceive, to corrupt, to execute dignity.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0085par0603	Apply economic sanctions to your own country. You're the one who calls it!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0084par0604	But look, our forehead is open, and we're proud of everything we've done in our past.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0085par0605	Which forehead, which forehead!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0084par0606	But we'll never be called thieves and murderers.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0085par0608	You're a man who wants economic sanctions in his own country, which forehead you're talking about, which forehead!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0086par0609	He'll get the bill, don't worry. Don't worry, he'll ask for the bill.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0610	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0088par0611	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0612	If you turn on the microphone, the guys in the back can't hear.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0088par0613	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0616	Now, Mr. President, a debate by Mr. President of the EC PARTY is obviously going to continue to be concentrated in the coming period. This argument is the ultimate betrayal of this country. There are no young people in this country. It's treason, Mr. President, to separate youth from youth from youth from July 15, youth from Ensar youth. I invite the President to return from this error at once, one. Secondly, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group said that the EC PARTY governments are actively fighting terrorist organisations. And I say, as Deputy Group President of the main opposition, that the EC PARTY governments -- I say to you, with all due respect to our MPs -- had a job with ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), as well as with the People's Party (PKK). I'd like to show Mr. Mush. This picture: All the ammunition seized in the ISIS armory in the town of Mansura, almost all of it is produced in Turkey. I'm asking General Kurula: Isn't the machine chemistry institute Turkey, this state, this nation?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0089par0618	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0619	Here's a picture.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0089par0620	What, with him saying...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0090par0621	Here's your machine chemistry.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0622	Take it, take it, machine chemistry.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0091par0623	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0087par0624	Who gave you these?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0092par0625	That's a shame!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0093par0626	Who took them?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0092par0627	Shame on you too, Mr. Altay. Shame on you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0094par0628	If there's been a break-in at the machine chemistry institute...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0092par0629	Shame on you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0095par0630	Where did the MIT trucks go?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0096par0631	Are you blaming your own country?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0632	If the theft of the flu stole these weapons into the warehouses of the machine chemistry institute...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0098par0633	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0634	Woe to you!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0099par0635	Tell me the weapons seized from the PKK, the weapons seized from the PKK.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0636	Osman, don't talk, don't talk!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0099par0637	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0638	You're the terrorist!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0100par0639	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0099par0640	Who told you that? What makes you say that?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0641	Mr. President, after this claim here by the ruling group's vice president, an answer to this picture...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0099par0642	You're unbelievable!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0643	Osman, shut up.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0099par0644	Name the weapons seized from the PKK.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0645	You gave me all of them!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0101par0646	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0647	You're the one who put terrorist organizations in trouble for this country.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0102par0648	How do you know?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0103par0649	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0650	Come, account for this picture.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0102par0652	Are those documents? You're out, you're talking to the wrong information.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0653	Come, answer for this picture.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0104par0654	Yeah, the Germans gave it to you, the Belgians gave it to you, you're talking.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0655	Are you going to warn me?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0105par0656	Do you make them in machine chemistry?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0106par0657	Have a seat, Mr. Altay, over.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0097par0658	Open this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0106par0659	Mr. Altay, complete in two minutes. Here, finish it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0107par0661	You're supporting terrorist organizations, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0108par0662	Mr. President, this is Congress, no one will be playing theater here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0106par0663	You're right.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0108par0664	No one here is going to think they're blind and stupid. I ask: How did these weapons, stamped at the machine chemistry institute, go to ISIS's warehouse?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0109par0666	▪ Industri (Edustri) Abi, (Edendustri) and not the institution (Estitu).
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0108par0667	Those who allow these weapons to go to ISIS's warehouse are responsible for every drop of ISIS's blood as much as ISIS's.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0109par0669	Who is fighting ISIS? Who the hell killed 3,000 ISIS terrorists? Those soldiers killed him!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0110par0670	Yes, that's how you fight!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0109par0671	What do you call your own soldiers?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0110par0672	That's how you fight!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0111par0673	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0112par0674	Mr. Mush, here's your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0111par0676	Mr. President, that's unfortunate.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0113par0677	What do you mean, unlucky?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0114par0678	Do you believe in provocation? You're showing me a picture of a crate.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0111par0679	A speech that does not suit the main opposition group's vice president.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0113par0680	What do you mean, it doesn't?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0111par0681	A conversation to see his own country, his own state, as a partner in a terrorist organization. I'm sorry. Shame on you! That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0115par0682	That's why people bury you in the trunk!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0111par0683	Another one, look...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0116par0684	That's not how the truth works.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0115par0685	What's going on?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0116par0686	It's happening.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0687	Mr. President, look, we saw another unfortunate announcement today. The presidents took four fingers of the terrorist organization at the group meeting, and they made a symbol, he says. Look, what we're saying is one nation, one flag...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0118par0689	What's everybody's name?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0119par0690	What people?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0691	The Turkish nation.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0120par0692	That's what Hitler said.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0693	One nation, one flag, one state.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0121par0694	One man.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0695	...one country. Which of these do you find so uncomfortable with Kilicdaroglu? Tell them to come out and explain it. He's uncomfortable with it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0122par0697	Don't talk like Hitler.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0123par0698	Why does it bother him? Does it bother him with one flag?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0699	Look, if they want to look at something that has to do with terrorism, let them look at the MPs who are walking under the banners of Apoka. Let him look at the MP who attended the terrorist's funeral and shed tears. If he's looking for an icon, let him look there.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0123par0701	Bravo!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0124par0702	What terrorist funeral?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0703	Who can't say a word to the PKK...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0125par0704	What terrorist funeral? Don't lie! Liars!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0126par0705	Don't worry, people will do it, they'll do it, they'll do it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0706	He has supported academics who have issued a statement accusing the state, so let him look at his statement if he is looking for a symbol.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0127par0707	Ahmet Davutoglu brought the body of the man you call a terrorist.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0117par0708	Let him take a look at the Cizre Report of his party. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0127par0710	Ahmet Davutoglu sent for him, not the terrorist! Ahmet Davutoglu tried and brought him in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0128par0711	Friends, Mr. Altay just said something nice, this isn't theater. This is a very serious matter we're talking about. Each of us has to have the same stable stance as 80 million before we show party belonging to the anti-terrorism. Sometimes our party belonging forces us to say different things. Please, this is a very serious, very serious matter we're talking about. The Republic of Turkey, together with 79 million, 80 million citizens, is against all terrorist organizations, and we have to put this fight here in a genuine position as all political party groups. Please, I think it would be more accurate for each of us if we were to express our point of view, and it wouldn't do anything to our fight against terrorism. I give you my word to Mr. Altay by inviting you to a more determined, sincere, and mutual stance at the point of counterterrorism. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0129par0713	Mr. Vice President, referring to our president's speech today, it's as if he's taunting our group, sir, as if we have a problem with one nation, one state, one nation, in order to create perception. I demand word from you for bullying.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0128par0715	Here, I promise not to tease you for two minutes. Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0129par0719	Thank you, Mr. President. It's easier for you to say, "It's easier for you to get rid of it, there's no way for you to deal with it here, there's a lot of criminal history in your past, so tell me how, after December 17th and 25th, they turned to the nation. May God forgive us, people. We thought they were good men, so they turned out to be traitors."
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0130par0721	You were in their network.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0129par0722	Say the same thing about the light, get rid of it, or you won't get away. I'm asking...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0131par0723	We have nothing to do with ISIS. ISIS is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0129par0724	Sir, here, let people see, this is the machine chemistry institute's compassed ammunition chest, and this is what comes out of the warehouses of ISIS.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0132par0725	Who put it there? Who put it there?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0131par0726	Oh, you were there? They serve it, don't believe everything.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0129par0727	Someone's gonna pay for this, there's no politics here without paying for it, you can't go public tomorrow.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0131par0728	Don't believe everything.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0133par0729	While you're showing up in the canals of ا... answer for him.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0134par0730	Do the Germans serve it or the Americans?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0131par0731	Did the Germans send it or the Germans?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0135par0732	And one more thing, the sign of Ihvan: Is it necessary to make this terrorist organization sign to say one state, one nation, one country, one flag?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0136par0733	Which one are you uncomfortable with?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0135par0734	Isn't that what you call a state without doing so?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0136par0736	Well, we did, which one are you uncomfortable with? Tell me what's wrong with you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0135par0737	This is the sign of the Muslim brothers, of Ihvan.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0137par0738	No, no, you don't know.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0138par0739	It's a symbol of the terrorist organization, Ihvan.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0135par0740	If you're saying: "Ihvan is not a Muslim Brotherhood terrorist organization. You say you don't know it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0138par0741	Ihvan is a terrorist organization, you're going to tell the world about it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0135par0742	But because of that terrorist organization, there have been boilers in the Middle East for two days. I also understand your interest in Qatar. We look at it this way, we're talking about a country where the EC PARTI governments visited at the level of President 57 times at the prime minister level, and now, countries in the Middle East are implementing embargoes, blockades, calls this country a country that co-operates with terrorist organizations, and yours, Qatar, is the most valuable in the region. Go out and answer for this here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0139par0744	ISIS is a terrorist organization, we have no support; our soldiers have taken down those terrorists, that's all.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0140par0745	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0141par0746	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0140par0747	I advise Mr. Altay to analyze further developments in the Middle East. Look...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0142par0749	You're talking! You've been beaten 12 times, don't believe it!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0143par0750	Mr. Look, just a second, I promised Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0140par0751	Article 10/10/2013, Article 28791, by the Council of Ministers' decision, has been declared an ISIS or DAİŞ terrorist organization, and has ended.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0144par0752	When?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0140par0753	10/10/2013, Official Gazette 28791. It's official history. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0145par0755	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0146par0756	Leave the intelligence agencies alone.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0147par0757	Don't get played by the Germans, you've been served!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0148par0758	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0149par0759	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0147par0760	I think that's the order from Germany!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0150par0761	We believed, we believed, we believed!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0147par0762	Is that a direct order from Germany?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0150par0763	We have our brains.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0147par0764	Did you receive instructions from Germany?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0150par0765	Our brains are not in the palace.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0151par0766	Sir, the State of Emergency has declared a terrorist organization by order of the Council of Ministers. It's false information, and I said it's an ISIS terrorist organization here. He made a false statement, so I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0152par0767	Not at all, Mr. Godkulu, we can't promise, there's no such tease.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0151par0768	Sir, here, look...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0152par0769	So, by order of the Board of Ministers, ISIS has declared a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0151par0770	Sir, it's not!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0152par0771	Is Sezgin taunting Godkulu when he says "It's done"? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0151par0772	Sir, look, it's not...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0152par0773	No, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0151par0774	Sir, in the official newspaper...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0152par0778	The second and final speaker against the proposal is Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara. Here you go, Mr. Boyukar.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0153par0781	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm congratulating the victims of a terrorist attack on June 5, 2015. In connection with the June 5th terrorist attack, the trial of the 5 defendants is under way on charges of attempted destruction of constitutional order, attempted murder, possession of dangerous substances. The trial date is June 20th. In connection with the negligence of public officials in the terrorist act, the Security Directorate also processed those who were considered negligent in the investigation of 18 police officers. At this point, it's good to make a reminder. Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu's description of angry children is not true; it is slander. Mr. Davutoglu's explanations are obvious; anyone can look at them and listen to them again.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0154par0786	What did he say?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0153par0787	If anyone's curious, you can look over there. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0154par0789	You're the one who's lying, so tell me the truth.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0153par0790	Sir, will you shut up?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0154par0791	No, I'm not. What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0153par0792	Then go to the barn. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0154par0794	Fuck!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0155par0795	Behave yourself! Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0156par0796	Mr. Furman...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0157par0798	What did you say? What did you say?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0156par0800	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0158par0801	It slipped out, it slipped out. Take it back, take it back.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0157par0802	What did you say?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit01spe0156par0803	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 101st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0159par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0003	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0159par0004	A moment ago, before closing the House, before taking a break, an unacceptable statement was used here. In this regard, I demand a penalty of reprimand according to 160.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0005	Congressmans, I've just received the transcripts. Really, I don't mind reading here, I won't. So in the previous session... Mr. Kerestecioglu, here you go, I give you my word.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0160par0007	You're gonna give it to me before you finish it? Why don't you just finish it?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0010	Members of parliament, in the previous session, the conduct of İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkılı, Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara (Adıyaman MP) against Mr. Adnan Kürkı (Adıyaman Kürkı) and the conduct of the 1st joke in the 160th Article of the Interior Charter (3) require a penalty for condemning and hurtful words and actions. Therefore, I would like to propose a sentence of reprimand on Izmir MP Ertugrul Kürkcu under Article 163. Mr. Furkcü has the right to defend himself.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0160par0012	I'm not talking about...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0013	If you'd like to take his place, you'd be welcome to stand up for him. Here, you have my word.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0160par0015	This isn't defense. If I had made a promise to him first, then you did something very sudden. I take it you've considered the previous statement.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0016	Here you go, here you go. We gave it to him as a defense now.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0160par0017	I can't do it as a defense, so he'll do it himself.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0161par0019	He can't speak as a defense, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0020	Then you won't make a defense... and I also made a promise to you, you said finish it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0160par0021	But I didn't mean to suggest that you would do such a thing.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0156par0022	I...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0162par0023	By vote, by vote, President...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0163par0024	And do what you were just told. A lady calls her MP "The Lady."
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0025	Yeah. Did you hear what was just said?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0165par0027	I didn't hear.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0028	▪ Play, play...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0165par0029	Vote, vote. He said, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0030	Okay, fine. Now, Mr. President, you really have to manage objectively and...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0165par0032	Of course.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0033	...if you have the same report, I read what's happening here, and you read it. Now, I, on behalf of our deputy, may not have to defend myself here, but I wanted to take the word out earlier that this is something that can't be said and that it's something that can be fixed. But before that, then go to the hayloft. The word is, likewise, a word that cannot be said. Ertuğrül Kürççı is a man who lost his friends in Kızıdere, Mahir Çazan, Jahan Alptekin, Omar Mirror, and others who survived. Everyone knows what that word means. Now, after this provocative remark and what's written here, it's actually in the transcripts, but he didn't say the whole thing. I mean, it was something that really slipped out of his mouth, and he really tried to pick it up and shut it all up without saying the letters, the letters, and the letters. But no matter what, no matter what, yes, it was an unspoken promise, and it wasn't supposed to be used here. You, unfortunately, shut it down immediately, and then, the words of the lawmakers who walked into these ranks were never acceptable, but they're always done this way, they don't go to the report, and the same insults, the same insults, they were flown in here by male lawmakers, they were told, they were told, and they were spoken.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0166par0034	No, that's not what happened.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0035	That's why I don't think all lawmakers...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0166par0036	There was no swearing, and that's not what you're saying to the reports.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0037	...that the men's MPs, especially -- yes, Mr. Nurettin, unfortunately -- look at our faces -- have been missing these words from time to time here; it's not acceptable. I mean, it's sexist and unspeakable. I think it's heavy. I wanted to make a promise here to fix it. I don't think it's appropriate for you to stand up and put it to a vote right away, act like this, to the general culture of this place. If this were a council of very decent words, it would be... it would just be... and, as I said, the one who tried not to say the ending, the one who put it together, the one that I noticed, and the one that I warned him about, would take it back. In fact, he is a kind person who would not do so and correct it. That's exactly what I can fix it for him.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0167par0038	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0039	Therefore, I ask you not to do such a thing. As I said, I suppose I wish that Mr. Adnan would agree to this, that his own word, in fact, was something that was very deep in the wound, and that he thought for a moment, what an inconsequential thing it was. I mean, it's not appropriate for a man who's lost his friends there, who's been in prison for a long time, to be accused of something like that, and to be called something like that, and the lawmakers after that are doing the same thing. Unfortunately, you didn't hear them because you went in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0167par0041	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Of course, at first, I said I'd give you my word, but then I said, "Well," and that's how it got in the way. I was going to promise you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0043	No, I don't know what you're gonna...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0167par0044	But let me put it this way: there are certain statements that, regardless of what happens -- it's in the transcripts -- you don't accept them, and we don't, and it's not possible.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0164par0045	But it went wrong because he didn't finish it.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0167par0046	So I couldn't read it here, look, in the form of it, and you didn't read it, you couldn't read it. Therefore, I propose to the General Assembly that Izmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı be condemned: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the second and final word against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal belongs to Aldıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara. Here you go, Mr. Boyukar.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0168par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm returning that ugly statement. I refer the person who uses sexist statements to HDP group administration and women MPs. I think you should listen to what the person sitting next to you is saying. I'm someone who knows what I'm talking about. I'm usually careful not to pick on anyone here, trying to explain the facts, the thoughts, the facts that I know. I don't take pleasure in teasing, I don't pick on, and I don't want anyone picking on me; it's not nice. This has got to be a tradition for the group's vice presidents. It's not nice to say anything to everyone on the stand. Engin Bey has a beautiful expression: "He says, " It's harassment to keep talking to someone who's talking here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0169par0056	Tell this to Osman Bey and tell others.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0168par0057	No matter who's doing it, I'm not discriminated against, the entire group is going to the vice presidents... This is harassment. Let me put it this way. In addition, those who are curious may look at what Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu said on their websites. I am happy to recall those who were killed in the terrorist attack on June 5th. I've used my statements about the course of things. Dear lawmakers, the incident that took place on June 5th is a terrorist attack. What is important for Turkey is a terrorist attack aimed at sabotaging, affecting the election process. The aim of such attacks by terrorist organisations is free elections, political operations, narrowing down the scope of civilian politics, cripple democratic will, undermine democratic legitimacy; in the natural sense of all of this, opening up spaces to non-political elements is to dominate chaos. Yeah, that's what terror is all about. Terrorism does not reach its goals with terrorist attacks alone. If the mind is torn apart by terror, if the mind is set on fire, terror can achieve its goals. For that, we need a common common common sense. Dear lawmakers, we are in a time zone in our region where new equations are wanted. We're witnessing the state's direct contact with terrorist organizations. It's a time when giving weapons to terrorist organizations is public. On this occasion, it is wise to refer to the DAİH terrorist organization, which has launched the June 5th attack, which is now being considered to be the completion of its mission by the organisers. IT is wise to look back to know the past. With the invasion of Afghanistan, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War began. In the process, the Muslim people's pulse was collected into the jihad of Afghanistan. Both the concept of Islamic terrorism was produced and psychological, political, and economic experiments against Muslim communities were carried out. With the invasion of Iraq, the Shiite equation was included in the process. The Taliban, which emerged in the 1990s, and later organized Al Qaeda, are terrorist organizations that have been created as a result of these processes. The meaning to al-Qaeda was to drive Afghanistan and Pakistan into chaos. The results of this experiment, which began with Afghanistan's post-September 11th occupation, were moved to the Middle East and tested with a more chaotic equation. The code name for this experiment is ▪ INDISTINCTLY. Yes, DAİŞ is the latest product of the asymmetric war organised by invaders in the occupation of Muslim peoples; as a production model, it is available for use, a Gladio organization capable of harming the region and the people of the region. This organization has benefited from all elements outside the region and opened up a movement field. As a result, he played the role of a lock pick. Therefore, if we try to understand it in the code "gladio" we're talking about a terrorist organization organized by the Baas staff, Maliki-Bezar support and the contributions of global intelligence organisations. Without seeing Abu Ghraib Prison, what was done in prison, and the power behind the prison door one night, and the escape that was allowed, there's no way to understand DAİSHI. It is difficult to solve and identify the EPA without revealing how, with what methods, and with what instructions some 50,000 people from over 100 countries have joined the terrorist organization. Of course, we're not talking about a collection organization produced out of thin air; first the ground was created to produce this organization, and then the organization was shaped by direction. Members of parliament have adopted the functions of these parties and socialist organisations, which carry all the savings of the Cold War period, by updating the functions of these parties and organisations, while the remains of the Baas and the socialist organisations have become dysfunctional. This terrorist organization has been given two different roles: stealing roles from public-based natural transformation processes in the region and preventing possible out-of-control order. The power, which positioned itself as the owner of the world, shaped states and peoples in the Middle East through this organization. The most organized examples of terrorism have been exhibited for a chaotic equation that no one can overcome. The summation of this dirty policy is creating crisis zones, the Mongolian act of terror with civilian destruction, the disparaging of new terrorist elements that would divide the opposition with a more radical reaction and legitimize the invasion, and prevent a healthy order from spreading the chaos into time. This is the summation of the dirty and bloody policy that global power wants to conduct over the EAST. Dear MPs, after this analysis, a question may be asked, "Well, Turkey?" Turkey is the country that corrupts this photograph and tries to nullify the intended equation. Turkey was on target because it tried to break the equation. He was targeted for capturing and deporting global terrorists that they had led him to. He was on target because he was holding a mirror to these dirty policies. Let's not forget that the most effective way to deter those who put terror and chaos policies on our territory and on our borders is to trigger their own internal contradictions. It is Turkey, who knows what terrorism is, who is fighting every form of terror, who is suffering from terror. Because Turkey believes that the problems that exist will not be solved by supporting terrorist organisations, regardless of their name, but by operating natural democratic processes, the demands of change of the people. Because it's not about volunteering to the global system, it's about volunteering to serve, it's about mirroring their dirty, bloody policies. It is important that Turkey maintains and maintains its position. Yes, Turkey, when we all say that fire is too much for us to say, we can break down terrorist organizations and their owners. And the moment we lose our sanity, we'll be buttering their bread, because if we don't deal with what's going on with a general perspective, we'll end up with a narrow understanding, and we'll drown in it. This approach has nothing to do with blinding our people, our country, and our politics. I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0170par0067	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0171par0068	Mr. President, there was a taunt just now, let me correct it. Words are an art, not everyone can do that, sir. Let's get him on record.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0172par0069	Sarcasm is a ritual, harassment is something else.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0171par0070	A word is an art.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0172par0071	That's harassment.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0171par0072	No, sir, it's not. It's art. It's in the transcripts, too.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0173par0073	The People's Democratic Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0172par0076	Mr. President, we have a request for a roll call before the group's proposal is voted, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit02spe0173par0077	There is a request from the Republican People's Party for an adequate number of meetings before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gourkulu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Serbasci, Mr. Bacheloroglu, Mr. Y Friend, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Arik, Mr. Serriyet, Mr. Cicek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Sanarak, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Akkaya. We've called the consent of 20 MPs to request the number of meetings. We've got his signature. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'm starting the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0173par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 6/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Group Deputy Chair Engin Altay, Ankara MP Deputy Chair Levent Gök and Manisa Deputy Chair Özgür Sici, has been appointed by Şırnak Province, Uludere province's Shenoba Brigade Command on May 31st 2017 to investigate the fall of the AS-532 Cougar-type helicopter on a high tension line shortly after its departure. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 6/6/2017 and to be held in the same dated joint meeting of its talks. Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall, please, and we expect a deep silence. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek. Mr. Flower, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, please stop humming. I've invited the minister to the stand.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0174par0027	Please stop humming for the sake of 13 martyrs.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0173par0028	Here you go, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0175par0029	Mr. President, I salute the High Council with love and respect. The Turkish nation was shaken by a tragic accident, along with a report published on the website of the General Staff on May 31, 2017. On Wednesday (May 31st 2017), the Cougar-type helicopter, which launched from the Şırnak Senoba Brigade Command and had 13 personnel in it, was hit by a crash around 20.55 hours after the launch -- according to initial information -- was installed on the high voltage line. The study of the event continues. It is called. Now, as I begin with my words about this accident, first of all, I salute our comrades, soldiers, and other martyrs who have been killed in this accident, with respect and love, and I wish our veterans an immediate recovery, and I give their families love.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0176par0032	Congressmans, let's stop humming, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0177par0033	They have no respect for 13 martyrs.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0175par0034	As battalion commander who has fought terrorism in the past under the authority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, I would like to address him as an MP who has flown hundreds of times from the airport in Şırnak. These Cougar-type helicopters are a type of helicopter that was manufactured in France and entered the Turkish Armed Forces inventory starting in 1995, then increased by joint manufacturing, and the flight crew consists of three people, two pilots and one technician. According to information on the accident in open sources and eyewitness reports that three minutes after takeoff, electricity was cut off in the area along with a helicopter that was hit by an explosion. After this tragic accident, various public claims have come to light. Why wasn't there a block recognition system in the helicopter? Why did the pilot fly straight ahead before he went to safety altitude? The rugged structure of the region has become mandatory at some point in the region for low altitude and night flights due to terrorist threats. The absence of an obstacle recognition system in helicopters and the lack of aircraft warning spheres in high voltage lines are considered the primary physical cause of the tragic accident. The first casualty of helicopters mentioned within the Turkish Armed Forces was carried out by the PKK terrorist organization's missile attack in 1997. The second casualty occurred in 2003 in Isparta (Isparta), where more than 50 citizens were killed in the two accidents. We face the painful fact that in 2010, the National Ministry of Defence tried to install an obstacle recognition system for 172 helicopters, but for seven years, this tender has not been completed. The fact that this device, which is about $35,000 in value, has not been supplied, has been in helicopters for seven years, is the primary physical reason for these accidents. If these devices were installed, it would alert the pilot of the helicopter approaching the high voltage line, voice and video, and that accident would have been destroyed. The Prime Minister has an explanation for this. In his statement, the Prime Minister sums up the subject and emphasises that he ordered a direct purchase without contract. June 4, 2017, the prime minister's statements: of course these accidents shouldn't happen. This obstacle recognition system we've been talking about has been on the agenda of the defense industry for many years, and a number of times it's been auctioned off. The reason for this is the conflict between bureaucracy and the fact that firms disagree with each other on their own. None of this is an excuse. The Prime Minister emphasizes it. Why was the helicopter flying low? That's where I want to get the attention of my representatives. You know, after World War II, we're dealing with the architect of a foreign policy that brought the United States and Russia together on PKK and its supporters. How did we bring together these two superpowers regarding PKK extensions in Syria? It's a weakness of foreign policy that we all have to question. As part of this policy, as part of this failure, guided anti-aircraft missiles and anti-aircraft weapons provided to the extensions of the terrorist organization PKK, particularly the United States, unfortunately threaten our pilots, our helicopters, and are causing these accidents. That's why flights from different routes, low flights -- to be difficult to detect -- and night flights at some point became inevitable to this threat. A country that spends $4 million to train an F16 pilot, and a country that buys a plane for $80 million, and gives it to the president, how can a country that exists, not get a $35,000 device for seven years, offer it to your conscience. In addition, the government, which is considered to be among the causes of accidents, has to be thoroughly investigated by the State of Emergency for violations of the Turkish Armed Forces' command unit, the problems stemming from pilot deficits and mission density, the maintenance and sustainability of helicopters, along with the intensity of use, and metal fatigue. In this regard, the work of the crash-designation committee and the administrative inquiry committee is under way. These studies must be evaluated in the Parliament and taken into account for the lack of similar accidents in the coming period. Reports of the board of administrative investigations and the committees to be conducted by the crash break-in committee, along with the painful accident, will be considered evidence as the basis of the investigation. In order to maintain peace and security in Turkey, we salute once again our martyrs, who serve at the expense of their lives and blood, with love and respect. In order to pay our debt of loyalty to them and their families, we invite the authorities, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, once again, to take over the law proposed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. In our country, it is our conscience and legal debt to our heroic martyrs and all of Turkey that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the heart of national will in order to solve and end the problem of terrorism and prevent similar accidents and painful losses, has taken on a more active task. In this regard, the statement made by Mr. National Movement Party's President on 1 June 2017 is also in this direction. In the title of the statement, the avalanche that fell on Turkey from Shanoba must be removed. It says Mr. Bahçeli and his statement that helicopter accidents that often led to the martyrdom of our children have raised doubts in our nation's heads. With that dignity, with every possibility taken into account, every claim must be taken from Şırnak Shenoba to remove the avalanche that falls on Turkey, and after that, measures must be taken to prevent cases like this, such as grief, which are destroying the consciences of the nation, Mr. Bahçeli emphasises. Now, in this framework, we ask the High Assembly to investigate reports on this subject, to determine necessary measures if there are negligence and flaws, and to prevent similar accidents, as well as the death of 13 of our soldiers, Lieutenant Colonel Songül Yakut. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0178par0048	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Khakat MP Yusuf Whiteıt. Here you go, Mr. Whitey.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0179par0052	Reverend President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the group's proposal by the Republican People's Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the helicopter crash that crashed on the high voltage line in Şırnak. I hereby salute your delegation. On Wednesday (May 31st 2017), the Cougar-type helicopter, which rose to return to the 23rd Gendarme Border Division following the inspection of the 48th Border Brigade Command in Şırnak province, fell three minutes after its departure, on high tension lines in the area at 8:55 p.m. Major General Aydoğan Aydın and 12 of our heroes were killed in this accident. In these blessed days, I pray for the mercy of God to all our martyrs who have reached the rank of witness, and to all their relatives, and to our land, and to our nation, and to our state. The first survey determined that the helicopter fell at about 200 metres between the area and the high voltage line. As a result of the impact, some of the wires in the high voltage line were severed, and some of the broken wires were hanging on the line. Because of the threat of missiles and anti-aircraft missiles in the east and southeast, helicopters are likely to fly low and face high tension dangers because they often rise from steep terrain. As a result of earlier accidents in the region, our Defense Industry Undersecretary will, hopefully, activate the Helipad Containment System Project as soon as possible. Our Prime Minister's instructions on this matter are direct and costing public opinion. Reverend lawmakers, I don't want to give you too much information about the accident. Techniques and research on this matter will be carefully reviewed, which will then be presented to both your delegation and public knowledge, but I'd like to say a few words to you about my uncle's son, Major General Aydogan Aydın, whom we are brother and sister. Reverend lawmakers, as you know, Major General Aydoğan Aydın has made his name known in the operations against terrorist organizations in Mount Kato and has been involved in several operations in the fight against terrorist organisations and has struck terrorist organizations in operations with his comrades. Your public and delegation also know the weapons acquired during the last Mount Kato operation - five tons of ammonium nitrate explosives, 719 types and large weapons, 20 SPG-9 recoilless cannons, nine rocket launchers, 567 rocket launchers. He was a brother who knew the area well from the time he was a First Lieutenant of Martyr General Aydoğan Aydın. After graduating from school, he served in the Special Forces Command and again served in this area. Later, Kayseri served with his brigade in the area, during his command of the Komando Brigade, and he fought heroically with his team in the pit activities of the site of the hole. Major General Aydoğan Aydın has given information on the operation to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, without being a martyr, has been launched since 19 April to the PKK terrorists and has been conducting an operation under his own transport and administration. There will be an increase in these cave numbers in the coming days. Mr President, the fact that equipment has been found in this area again will contribute to the fight against terrorism throughout Turkey. The cleaning of this place will also affect the breaking of the back of terrorism in Ankara and Istanbul. Do you know what they called him? Why did they call him "Soldier Aydoğan"? Because he loved the soldier, he wasn't like the others, he sat with the soldier where he went, he ate with them, he talked to them. Because of his love for Mehmet Chik, he was nicknamed Asker Aydoğan. Honourable MPs, I especially want to point out that he, in his humility, in his sacrifice, in his patriotism, in his bravery, in the heart of this nation, is in his conscience. I have witnessed the mourning of our brothers from Şırnak, who lived there, as a brother who went there at the same time at the same time at night, and I pray for God's mercy on this brother, this fellow martyr brother. Honourable MPs are there with him, with him, Sergeant-in-chief Hakan of the Amassian infantry, Sergeant-in-Chief Fevzi, Ensign-in-Chief Abdulmuttali, Captain Serhat of Osmaniye Kadirli, Pilot Corporal Zeki Kokoru of Pilot, Colonel Oguzhan Küğdemir, Colonel Gökhan Peker While Aydoğan was still a lieutenant in the area, I would like to share with you the poem "Hankeye Ağut" which cost the public also: "We were nine men that day/ hungry, thirsty, sleepless/ Nasser feet," we walked skim free/ Sis, mud, blood, sweat, we were on clouds, we were greening, we had hopes of clouds/ cold barrels, walking through mountains/ martyrs, we came near all the provisions that fought, we came close with faith, Hank. Once again, my dear brothers, on the night of the incident, I would like to share with you a verse written by our brother Ahmet Cemala: You are a country in the form of a man, Pasha/ Kanan who is not satisfied with blood. I want to express my gratitude to our president, our President, our Prime Minister, our President of the Main Opposition Party, our President of the Nationalist Movement Party, all our ministers, our deputies, all our commanders who have served in the General Staff, all our citizens who have come from Şırnak, who have come all the way from there, who have come all the way home, who have come all the way home with their attention, from our Tokat, from our Niksar Province, from our Nikhal, from our Turkhal, from our Turhal, and all our brothers who have come to Ankara to share our grief with us on this occasion, and our nation, our nation, our nation, our nation, our nation, our nation. I wish our flag would continue to fluctuate forever. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0180par0067	Thank you, Mr. Whitey. Once again, we remember all our martyrs from here once again, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, who were killed in this accident, and who was also the cousin of Yusuf Whiteıt, including Major General Aydoğan Aydın. May their souls rest in peace, and may their place be in heaven. The second statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0181par0077	Respected President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action to discuss the Republican People's Party's research proposal. I salute your High Council. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the most basic rule of international relations is that a democratic law state has two major priorities. One of these priorities is safety, and the other is prosperity. But when it comes to a hierarchy within these two key priorities, trust me, security is put before prosperity, security is more important. When we look at countries that have done this before and successfully implemented it, we also see that they are truly secure, taking all kinds of risks to protect the unity and unity of the country, and when we look at countries that do not apply it, they are purmelal and even face destruction. To make this concrete, if you look at a political example in our world's conjunctural context, on the one hand, we're witnessing that even if you take seriously the smallest event in some countries that would declare the entire world's geography and risk its safety in the name of Israel's security, the country has been reduced to weakness, even in the face of the simplest terrorism. So, first, we must prioritize our safety with the logic of life after life and apply our safety concept by taking even the slightest and most critical risk seriously. In this sense, Turkey is going through a difficult and heavy process of fighting terrorism. Why? Because we see the country facing a multi-armed terror spiral like an octopus. On the one hand, we have a clear view of the treacherous traps and actions of terrorist organizations such as DHKP-C, PKK, YPG, NYD, ISIS and CHP, as well as the example of NATO-member so-called Allied countries recently subjecting Turkey to isolation or isolation in foreign policy. Because by doing so, Turkey is trying to bring morale and motivation to terrorist organizations that have been haunted. In such a state of distress, on 31 May 2017, an AS 532 Cougar-type helicopter taking off from Şırnak Senoba Brigade Command fell on high tension lines shortly after takeoff, and 13 of our heroic soldiers were killed. I, by the way, offer my condolences to all of our martyrs, to the great Creator, to his heavenly place, and to his grieving families, and to the great Turkish nation. The most accurate comment on the causes of this tragic accident, which has overwhelmed us with a major elimination, can only be made after the accident report was announced. It's a scientific fact, it's a priority to get the report out. It's a general principle, too. But we also know that sometimes an accident occurs with more than one reason, and that's when we witnessed it. Accidents that occurred during this time of technology's development are often explained by the human factor. Now, explaining such an accident with only the human factor is truly disrespectful to the spirituality of our martyrs. So, the speakers before me may have mentioned it in part, but we're in favor of two-dimensional considerations of this accident: first of all, human factors should also be discussed, but we have to bring up the lack of technological difficulties, technological equipment. If you want to explain it with a few examples, there's a technology requirement that's so versatile that one of the first things that comes to mind is that the sunglasses used in twilight are very important, the technical capacity that uses it is very important. Again, the second important thing with technical context is that there are no stimuli systems. There's a lot of speculation about that. What is it? Sir, it's either auctioned or not, it's too expensive, but the other thing is, we have very powerful institutions on the subject. We really -- we're going to -- we've got ASELSAN, sir, we've got ROKETSAN, we've got AVELSAN, we've got TUSASAS. And we need to be able to create that kind of stimulus system in a very short time. Another important technical need is the lack of a sliding map system, not being used. You know, technically, we all use equipped vehicles. The GPS system may also be involved in helicopters, which means that when the helicopter takes off, it will videoly give our pilot all kinds of formations in the air that might interfere with it. Our device, which should be at another important technical hardware point, is the enriched ground proximity system. And that's the same way, we're talking about a simple system that he sends as a message to the pilot, as a message to the pilot, whether it's mountain rising, hill rising, bumping, wire coming out or whatever. Of course, none of this ever happened. What happened? We're stuck in the high voltage line. I've heard it from an expert, and in a retired general's own words, he's my reference: there are balloons in these lines of tension... What is the wisdom of these balloons? To distract the image, not just a wire, to express it clearly, very systematic, very serious structure... but in the southeast, these -- in the words of that general -- these balloons aren't on the high voltage lines, they were forced to hang out for safety. Now, I really think there's a good chance that the Department of Energy could arrange this as soon as possible... and have those balloons in those areas of tension lines all over Turkey. If not, something can be done at the top of these tension lines using phosphorous paint. The experts say, I don't say it, or there are lights, like the lighthouses that keep sending the signal. And with such simple technologies, perhaps these accidents could have prevented the great loss of lives that hurt our hearts. Why are we giving these warnings? Dear MPs, because, please, we have to be open-minded, we have to prioritize our security. Look, we talk all the time, we criticize all the time; hundreds of trucks of heavy ammunition were shipped just beyond our weapons limit, right? PYD, YPG, was given weapons assistance. You think these weapons are very ordinary, simple weapons, these are very sophisticated, very modern weapons. The day after tomorrow, God forbid -- isn't he our biggest concern, we're not arguing for him -- if this side of the border somehow gets to the PKK, these weapons... these measures must be taken quickly without being subjected to any more of these accidents. When it comes to the human factor, respected lawmakers, one of the important lessons we're going to learn from this accident is to consider the human factor. In fact, our Turkish Armed Forces have lost a great deal of power since their operation. We have a particularly low number of experienced pilots, and these are our friends, these babies, these brothers and sisters, they're under a lot of overtime stress. Look, we call it the right of a man to live, don't we? But the right to live is more sacred, someone whose duty is to keep a person alive. So we have to do everything in our power to satisfy the needs of our members of the Armed Forces without such austerity measures and so forth. Otherwise, Mr. Paşa, as our late Paşa said, again, to Petty Officer Cavit Jahan Özlü, a brother of ours who's been protecting him, he says to us, "Cavit, don't get on the helicopter." You were on duty last night, you just got here. It's a very important anecdote. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0182par0092	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0181par0093	It really hurt me, I mean, as much as I felt sorry for our martyrs, this dialogue really shook me up. This dialogue between the commander and his aide -- probably Mr. Yusuf has heard of it -- says the commander: "Cavit, you're not coming. No, my son, you were on duty last night. You stay and rest, I go alone. He says, and Cavit curses that he lives in that moment. He wishes he'd gotten on without me asking. I'm telling you, my conscience is troubled, that I wish to God that one of our officials had been in charge of Aydoğan Pasha. You've been fighting here for 40 days, you've lost your life, you haven't taken off your boot. You rest today, go tomorrow. Maybe we wouldn't have had this. Forgive my sentiment, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0183par0097	Thank you. The second and final word against the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Halil Eldemir. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0184par0101	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal for the 19th Amendment. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. The CHP group proposal was issued on May 31st 2017 to investigate the fall of a Cougar AS 532 helicopter from the Şırnak province's Shenoba Brigade Command on the high voltage line shortly after takeoff. First of all, I ask for the mercy of God to the soldiers we lost in this accident, and for the patience of his relatives, and for the sake of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, the report of the crash-breaking team is under way regarding this accident. From the completion of the report, before the completion of our Chief of Staff and the investigations of our National Ministry of Defense, I'd like to leave you to appreciate a congressional investigation. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs again, and salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0185par0107	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0186par0110	We have a request for a roll call before the vote on our group proposal, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0185par0111	Message received, sir. I'll call the number of meetings before the vote. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tarthan, Mr. Serthel, Mr. Demir, Mr. Black Sea, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Akın, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Tellcuoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Cicek, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Tuğn, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Yüksel. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 6/6/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. Within 485 hours of the 485-trial bill distributed, the agenda is to take the first place of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the 415-trial bill found in this section again to take the 2nd place of this section and to identify the order of other tasks according to this. Other than working weekdays of the General Assembly, 12, 16, 17, 18 and 19 June 2017, Monday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, it is 14 o'clock. Meeting at 00 p.m. to discuss business in these mergers on the agenda of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; 6, 13 and 20 June 2017 on Tuesday (June 20th), where verbal questions are not discussed; Until the completion of the talks on Tuesday (June 6th 2017) of Bill 485 in the merger; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 7th, 2017) was completed until the meeting of the Law Bill No. 471; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 8th, 2017), until the meeting of Article 362 of the Legislature, until the completion of the talks; On Monday's agenda, June 12, 2017, of the number-one Gensoru Proposition (11/16), which was issued under duress (11/16), was to be held in the same day's joint session of talks on whether or not to be released under Article 99 of the Constitution will be taken into the first order of the agenda until the meeting of the 366th Bill of Law. Until the meeting of Tuesday (June 13th, 2017) was completed by the 368th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 14, 2017) was completed by the 370th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 15, 2017), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 373, was completed; Until the meeting of Friday (June 16, 2017) was completed by the 375th Bill of Law; Until Saturday (June 17th, 2017) the meeting of the talks of the 379th Bill of Law was completed; Until the meeting of Sunday (June 18th, 2017) was completed by the 384th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Monday (June 19, 2017) was completed by the 389th Bill of the Law; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedule is incomplete, it will continue to work until the daily schedules are completed; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of the Law of 485 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form; It's recommended. The first word in favour of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal belongs to Kurıkkale MP Ramadan Can. Mr. Can, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0187par0150	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our group proposal, there is a draft law on the development of industry number 485 and the development of production in order to make changes in certain laws and laws; it consists of 102 articles, 4 chapters. Of course, there are aspects of opposition to this bill. We'll all negotiate here, and the opposition will settle their objections here, but the General Assembly will make a decision. It's a public matter. Hopefully, with the help of the opposition, we'll make this bill legal here. Again, in our group proposal, we propose that the international contract between Palestinian government 415 and the government of the Republic of Turkey be taken to the 2nd place on the agenda, courtesy of the General Assembly. We also recommend that no verbal questions be discussed on Tuesdays, June 6, 13, 20th. In addition to the mutat working days, we recommend the General Assembly's appreciation as a group proposal for working days Monday (June 12th), Friday (June 16th), Saturday (June 17th), Sunday (June 18th), and Monday (June 19th). Also, on Monday (June 12th), there's a motion to make a motion for our Minister of Agriculture, which I offer to the General Assembly's appreciation, to offer the acceptance of our group proposal to the General Assembly's appreciation, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0188par0157	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0189par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, regarding this bill you're trying to bring in, we've actually put in our hands, and we've stated that it's a bill against the people in Turkey against our living spaces. We're gonna discuss this more than ever. We keep our promises about this a secret. Perhaps you don't know, you may not be following anymore, but yesterday, the trial of our Group President, Mr. Idris Bauken, was held. The head of the court delegation, which evacuated İdris Baukeni on 30 January, was appointed as a member judge of Ankara, right after the evacuation. In the second hearing held yesterday (May 8th), we have learned that a member judge who opposes the continuation of his arrest and the last member judge who issued an eviction order on January 30th have been sent to the criminal court for various reasons. So all the judges in the delegation who opposed Idris Bauken's trial without arrest have been eliminated. Given that the person being tried is an MP, after a seven-month trial changed the entire committee, the government still does not intervene in the judiciary, the judiciary is independent. It is to mock our mind with its simplest term. The only explanation for the unlawful imprisonment of our vice president, the group that has been held in prison for three months without treatment, is that the political government has pressured our party through the judiciary. In this case, indeed, there has been a first time in the history of Turkey, and for the first time in a trial, all three members have been removed or forced to leave the case they were looking at. There's an open political intervention. We're looking at the clearest example of the government's interference in the judiciary. The AKP says we're against closing the party. It says, yes, you say so, but as you can see, our party is actually being shut down by investigations against all our politicians. To play with judgment for the greater good is to play with the future of everyone in this country. Whatever position you're in today, you'll all need a fair trial. We know you've abandoned basic values such as freedom of speech, judicial independence and the right to organize, but I'm also curious if you realize that you're going to be written down as a government held hostage by law enforcement courts, worse than martial law courts, by ordering lawmakers you share the same ranks. Perhaps Mr. President is aware that he is referring to the statement of Halit Narin, as AKP President today. As if the court's hostage policy was not enough, the principle of directness and face-to-face is also violated during the trial. Over 200 of our co-chairs and deputies have been tried, and many of them have joined SEGBIS. As of early May, they said they would not attend the hearings through SEGBIS, they submitted their requests to the courts, but they are denied by the courts. Friends, you're being tried in a court of law, and you're told: "No, you can't go to court, you have to attend through SEGBIS. You have to reject their physical demands on various grounds, the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights decisions, and the Supreme Court of Appeal 16. The Department of Corrections has never complied with decisions that find the SEGBIS system contrary to the principle of directness, face to face. In recent days, our co-Chair, Denizhattin Demirtaş, has been rejected on the grounds that his request to be present in court, would put the trial on hold. Defending yourself in court, defending yourself face-to-face, putting the trial on trial is a drag. This is an embarrassment to a fair trial in the name of the date of the trial. Put him in jail for crime and stop him from defending himself. There is a bilateral or even multiple law against HDP. They're taking some of our MPs into custody while they're carrying on their political activities, by force, by plane, by helicopter, by helicopter to court; our arrested MPs want to talk to them in court. They say, "No, we won't take you." You took them to the prison to prevent them from speaking in the rally squares, and you're that scared? Is there such a thing to fear about a few words Demirtaş will say in the courts? We're really curious about the answer to that, folks. He was rejected because his request to participate in the case in Mersin is possible with the SEGBIS system, which is no different than the location. So there's no difference between being in court and being remotely connected. There are lawmakers among you. Will you ever be able to say the same when you're judged for yourself? Then why did you build all these palaces of justice? People also want to know why you're building places of justice that look like one of those malls, where they don't actually have access to justice in any way. In those places you do, our deputies ask why they weren't at the hearings on the principle of face-to-face, and why they weren't judged like that. We're asking. One day you'll have to answer to justice. And that's the kind of decision that's been made to make fun of our minds and our MPs are being held hostage. Demirtaş, Yükseldağ, İdris Baluken, Çağlar Demirel and other arrested MPs want to be in court, but you are afraid to face the truth and deny it. While the law is under way in Turkey's courts, it is the huge crisis of international institutions of the European Court of Human Rights, as the AYM (AYM) still does not implement the precedent decision made for lawmakers who are on trial in the Sledgehammer case, and the silence of the European Court of Human Rights remains. I'd like to make one more point in particular. I'd like to ask you once again, although we have no doubt that the only reason for the state of emergency is to put pressure on the opposing parties: is the state of emergency going on with people who are attempting to take a coup, or to suppress any criticism against the government? Because we see reports of children's rights prepared by NGOs are being convicted while soldiers on trial in the coup investigation are being released by AKP chiefs as guarantors. A report on Şakran Prison, for example, for child abuse, is not published, it is prohibited to publish. The State of Emergency banning the State of Emergency on the basis of the State of Justice. That's exactly what my police don't torture. The government doesn't. We've seen many of these examples. There are no violations in my prison. The children are shouting there. I don't know if you can hear them, but the children are shouting, talking about abuse, and you don't go and see them, you don't hear them. While the reports are being convicted -- as I said -- the coup suspects are being released by the AKP chiefs as guarantors. The Chief of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Sentop, who was taken into custody by the General Prosecutor's Office, has testified to the prosecutor as a witness for Lieutenant Eren Hen, who has been taken into custody by the General Staff Prosecutor, and has said that he is not a member of the Constitutional Commission, and was then decided not to be followed. He transferred the names of judges and prosecutors who had been linked to the construction of the government and sent their proposals for the liquidation of the journalists to the government since 2011, so he was excluded from the process of drafting the law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, we need to...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0190par0176	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0189par0177	I'd like to ask Mr. Şentop. You've been aware of the threat of Fetullah Gulen since 2011. At the end of 2013 from Twitter, how can you send more to Fetullah Gülen Hodja? Let's forget this contradiction for a moment, and let's say that the statement of sentop is true. And who are the government officials, who have excluded the zentop, because Fetullah Gülen is struggling with its construction? There's no response in the Strike Research Commission, and you're shutting them down. But if there's a bail system in Turkey's criminal trials, if there's a system like this again, then we'd like to say that we vouch for all of our deputies and they need to be released immediately. Our people who voted for them also vouch for them. This bail must be carried out here as well. My respects.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0190par0180	Thank you. Now, in favour of the proposal, the second statement belongs to Bursa MP Hakan Sergeant. Mr. Sergeant, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0191par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. I made a pledge in favor of the group proposal for our party. I'd like to explain to you the working order we're bringing in with our group proposal. First of all, with the aim of developing industry number 485 and supporting production, we are taking the draft law for amendments under certain laws and laws to the first place on our agenda. The bill, a total of 102 articles and four chapters, is indeed a bill that our industrialist and manufacturer closely followed and expected to take effect as soon as possible. Therefore, I would like to say that we expect any constructive proposals and criticisms of our fellow lawmakers who will take the stand during the talks that will contribute to the development of our country. Again, we're bringing an international agreement, which is 415 rows, to the 2nd place on the agenda. This is an agreement with Palestine. And we're going to present this agreement to our General Assembly. Likewise, in relation to our working arrangement in the next period, these are the works of Monday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, which are out of our working days. We're also organizing the study these days, along with our proposal. Again, in the same way, we propose a situation on June 6th, June 13th and Tuesday (June 20th) where verbal questions cannot be discussed. On Monday (June 12th), we will also discuss the motion for a gene-referencing motion on Faruk Çelik, our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I simply hope that this proposal will be good for the work in the coming process, and with that feeling and thought, I salute you all, and wish you well.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0192par0194	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. The second and final speaker against the proposal is Istanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Next week you'll have a busy marathon with the AK PARTI group proposal, all together. Do you know what ambition, what ambition? To bulimia's ambition. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey will work at this blessed time for the bulimia disease in which the government or the government is being held or held nearby. Let it work, no one's running from work, but I do wonder, in the 7th month of 2003, Mr. Abdullah Gul made the first offer to the House to make three or five people rich. Well, it's from the government before it. The House has been sleeping with olives for 15 years and waking up with olives. Ramazan Can, Congressman, you just said: "There are objections to the opposition." Mr. Can, if this law is in 80 percent of this AK PARTY group, I'm quitting politics. Leave us, your deputies have objections. I know how well the members of the AK PARTY in the Aegean and Thrace are involved in this work. It's a shame. It's a shame. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm not saying anything, you have a majority, you can do it, you can do it, but don't you get any calls from the provinces of Turkey, especially in the olive field, brother? What is this ambition, what is this ambition?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0194par0204	The industrialist is waiting for this law.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0205	Well, if you're in a good mood, if this law gets out of here in a month, I don't know anything.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0195par0206	Half the country is bleeding.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0207	We will, of course, use all the resources that Turkey's Grand National Assembly has given us. This is where we make our offer. There's some serious issues involved in this law. This law -- let our friends correct me if I look wrong -- withdraw Article 2 of Article 2 of this law, remove Article 2 of this law, and let's finish it here -- 90 of this law today, shall we? So, what's the big deal about us, withdraw 1 article of the 90-point law, and we'll give you all our support? Yeah, well, think about it, they've got a problem too, obviously, since they've been objecting so much. What would happen if you had come to the commissions six times before at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and withdrew as an offer/ bill -- as a result of public opposition -- with a conscience, with a conscience, with a heart, with a heart, with a mind? So I don't have one olive tree, I'm from the Black Sea. But, dear MPs, there are 167 million trees in Turkey that meet 10 percent of the world's olive production, is that bad? We export $86 million worth of olives and olives. You're saying there's someone who loves us very much, who's loyal to us. They want to build a facility, but the plant wants to see the sea. The only way to do that is to cut the olive fields.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0195par0209	Miner has friends, miner friends.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0210	The miner, the tourist, that one. So just because this nation is voting for you, don't abuse this nation's good intentions, don't overreach this nation's rights, dear lawmakers, I'm asking you. The government is here. Mr. Secretary, what if the 2nd article was drawn? So there's a problem, you're dealing with a social reflex. We just received word that 30 or 40 buses from Balıkesir are coming to Ankara to persuade you. Mr. Secretary, 30 or 40 buses will burn fuel, those people will die on the way, so they will suffer persecution, suffering, isn't that a sin?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0196par0212	The minister is here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0213	Where?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0197par0214	Mr. Engin, look here.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0215	Mr. Secretary, we love you. Take away this law. It's a shame, it's a shame. Look, June 5th is Earth Environment Day, so there's a factor called environment. This Turkey has given us everything with both hands. Three sides of us are the sea, the forest, the olive grove, our underground resources, our above-ground riches, so what right do you have to turn this paradise into hell just because we're going to make three people rich? (CHEERING) You're really doing it wrong. If I'm a politician, I'm an asshole. Our party has a lot of environmental sensitivity, a lot of friends higher than me. But those who came to us gave us this land to pass it on to the next generation, without blemish, without blemish, without glitter. Now, if I really believe that you're going to lift your hand from the heart to make these olive groves rich, looting, ranta, zoning, I'm an asshole. But you can raise your hand in a party hierarchy, but I have no choice but to leave you alone with your conscience, with society, with God. The international commission, which discussed this law, wrote a report by the National Commission for Education, Culture, Youth and Sports -- my former Commission. The majority of the Commission, which wrote this report, is from the EC PARTY. He wrote, wrote, and agreed that our commission should give its opinion on the main commission on three issues. He said, "The third issue he has spoken of is the removal of items related to olivery from the draft text." Which AK PARTY are we going to believe, Mr. Secretary? Is the Industrial Commission doing the right thing, National Education, Cultural Commission doing the right thing? I wonder which AK PARTY, which AK PARTY is behind this law. [[Why are you shouting from the AK PARTY lines?]] Brother, if you're uncomfortable, there's a lobby, go have tea there. This is the shouting stand. This bench is for yelling. Do you understand? Don't insult people who use it because you don't come and use it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, which Commission? National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Industry and Trade? Which one? Congressmans, which commissioner is more patriotic? Which Commissioner is more environmentally sensitive? Which commissioner is more than willing to leave this country to the next generation? Let's put it to a vote, and I'll take a look at it. Culture Commission or Industrial Commission? BlM, SANAYI and TEKNOLOJI LOOKS FREE. Both of them. No, it's wrong, sir. He wrote, he wrote, Mr. Secretary; he says, "Wrong." He says, "That's not true." He says. They're both patriots. So I call on your consciences again.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0198par0225	We're all patriots, Mr. Engin, please.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0226	It's a good thing I didn't scream on this occasion -- I have a website for the Turkish press, for the Turkish press, for the press, for the press. I have to make it clear from the General Assembly. Over the past month, there are ITUC, ETUC, union confederations in different countries, and more importantly, TÜRK-İSK, DİSK, KESK, KESK, but this time... the work and the operations of these governments, the policies that even brought the Right-ist to the point of rebellion. Congratulations on the government. But my website goes to the press: you pull it out of there. I respect the press workers, the media bosses. Turkey's four major unions have issued a joint declaration. Now, I don't have time to read the declaration. They made it very clear that Turkey is not in a good position, that Turkey is not in a good position for freedom of expression, that they are complaining about the rights and rights for basic rights and freedoms due to the State of Emergency practices. When you say DİSK alone, these are Travelers, Communists, this is, this is leftist. You say -- let me say lefty is also a good thing -- it's to protect the balance. You say, if KESK does, these are DHKP-C, this is. You like to throw away mud.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0199par0228	Why? It is.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0229	So what's the deal with this right-hand thing, right? DİSK, KESK, TÜRK-İSK are complaining about you as much as HKR is complaining about you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The press, the press, is Turkey's media; Turkey's largest... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I can't find anything to say to the press who thinks that this document has no value. They probably won't give away what I'm saying; it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Mr. President, just to say thank you...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0200par0236	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0201par0237	Sir, I demand that Mr. Can be removed from the square, sir!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0193par0238	I don't know which government is behind me, and I'm here to thank you. I truly believe that you will withdraw the 2nd article. Come on, don't do anything to Turkey, don't do anything to Turkey, don't try to ruin Turkey's nature, its environment, its natural balance, the balance of God for a penny. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0202par0241	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0203par0242	Mr. Secretary, if one tree is cut down, let it be prevented, let it be retreated. You said, I'll tell you, it will be cut down!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0202par0243	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0204par0246	We want roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0202par0247	I'll meet that request. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sertal, Mr. Ýrgil, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Torun, Mr. Akin, Mr. Arik, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Hero, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yım. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the fact that 3/11/2016 dates and (2/1461) the main 12/4/1991 date and 3713 Anti-Terror Law Proposal for the Amendment were not discussed within 45 days of the commission, I would like to submit to you the need for a direct agenda in accordance with Article 37. Under the Civil Code 37, as the bidder, along with the petition to participate, the MP Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet... Your time is five minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0205par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly and the Veteran Assembly. I have made a pledge to change the Anti-Terror Law of 3713 on our Law Proposal. This proposal is based on our country children who have been injured by terrorist weapons in the fight against terrorist organizations, but are not officially considered veterans because of regulations, but are ignored. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our Parliamentary Vice President, who is actually working on our proposal of the law, on behalf of our sons and sisters, who are not considered veterans for their sensitivity in this matter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What will the terrorist's bullet come from in the mountains, without even throwing away his fear? He guards the land, guardes the country, shieldes his chest with bullets for love of homeland; some missing fingers, others struggling with shrapnel in his body, with pieces of shrapnel in his heart. If the bullet in these people's hearts had gone one centimeter further, all of you would have published a message of martyrly condolences from your seats and carried his coffin wrapped in the Turkish flag and put it in a military vehicle. On this stand today, all the speakers remember our martyrs, God bless them all, and bless them all. You know what would happen if they weren't martyrs, all of them, including our recent martyrs, if they weren't martyrs, if they were injured, but if they were stuck in this regulation, if they were stuck in the health code of the Turkish Armed Forces? They wouldn't be anything. They wouldn't even be veterans. Now, all of us, all of you, will respond to these sons of our country, whether they are fighting terror organizations, we will give them the honor of being veterans without looking at the percentage of injury when they are injured. You will say, "This is how it has been for many years, this caravan/destined caravan is like this, whether you cry or burn." We had already submitted a motion to investigate this matter, but unfortunately, with the AKP's votes, AKP Deputy Chair Firstinur Eylüs came to the bench and said, "We are working on it." He said, "We are working on it." After that, I instructed the Prime Minister's 7 ministry, and we are working on it." I'm talking about six months ago. I asked the Minister of Finance over and over again about the work, but he didn't know anything about it, unfortunately, he threw the ball to the Minister of the Family, he said, "The Ministry of Family is working on it." We asked the Minister of the Family, and there's nothing I can do about it. He said, "There's nothing I can do about it." He said, "There's nothing I can do about it." So, I'm asking you: who are these 19,000 veterans, when have we given 19,000 veterans, if no one's ever taken advantage of this KHK, which has been released for 19,000 people? This KHK only covered July 15th veterans, unfortunately. So I asked the Minister of Defense, and the Minister of Defense responded to the mind damage, and he said: "People who went out on the street on July 15th with no account, people with love of the country, so that we could get hurt, they didn't go out on the street to take advantage of the opportunities to be a veteran." So, did those who were injured in the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party knowingly press those bullets or did they deliberately press those mines? Before that, the Prime Minister said at the group meeting that there was a regulation in the TSK for our Gaazis, which was unbecoming, I took them to Turkey. On the 15th of July, he said, "If the wounded were scratched, I would count them as veterans." He said, "And a KHK was published, and everyone who was injured with that KHK was considered a veteran on July 15th." The fingernail was counted as a veteran, but unfortunately, people who fought and were injured, whose fingers were severed, who tried to continue their lives today with a lot of shrapnel, are still stuck in that code, and it doesn't count as a veteran. He's watching us right now, and a lot of country kids are watching us, and he's asking all of us: how much can government officials put on a finger of their own children that tells us that you can't be a veteran? They ask, "If we had lived with these bullets before we went into the army, would you have taken us into the army? " Two of our citizens have sent a message, and one of them says: "They call us victims of terror, I am a hero Turkish soldier." The terrorist is my enemy, I'm not a victim of terrorism, I'm a victim of state. He says one of our citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together, Mr. President. I need a minute.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0206par0277	Pack it up, please, finish it up.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0205par0278	Thank you. Another says: "I was shot with a sniper's bullet in Nusaybin, and if the bullet had gone one millimeter to the left, I would have been paralyzed, and if it had gone one centimeter up, I would have been a hero martyr, but now I am nothing." says the precious friends. They've been fighting for the vet's title for years. The heart wound is more severe than the gunshot wound, I assure you. Come, let us not hurt our sons of this country any more, for us, for our country, for the future of this land we live on. Tomorrow, when you speak of the fight against terrorism, if you want to speak of the sacrifices of our veterans and martyrs, you must say yes to this bill today, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0206par0281	On behalf of an MP, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0207par0284	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Deputy Speaker Hamzecebi is giving you the opportunity to correct a great injustice, injustice. I think you should put this bill directly on the agenda. What's he saying? Let's not make a distinction between veterans, it's shameful, it's a sin, raise your hand; you must support it. My dear friends, it is possible that a state, a government -- whatever it is -- can treat its citizens equally, be fair. Justice is the foundation of everything, the foundation of property and state. It's all about legitimacy. Look, the Justice and Development Party government is increasingly losing its legitimacy or orientation in issues such as justice, rights and freedoms in this sense, equality, democracy, at first, in matters such as the state of law, when it was founded, are you aware of that? In particular, the abuse of the extraordinary state that has been implemented since July 15th has left Turkey with no room for the concept of the state of law. My dear friends, yes, we faced a military coup attempt on July 15th; people died, veterans. Everybody knows who did it, more or less. You know what to do in a situation like this. Why don't you follow the obvious? My dear friends, you said that we can't deal with this great affliction in normal conditions, we want to be extraordinary. We said: "There is no need for the extraordinary; we will support whatever you bring us in this Parliament, and we will do what is necessary. But you did, all right, but the state of emergency isn't completely illegal, which has a law, which you have to abide by. Look, Mr. President recently made a statement at an iftar dinner saying: "There will be no problem if we follow the Veda Hutbesi." The father cannot be blamed for his son's crime, nor his son for his father's crime. I've got dozens of samples. Look, there's a police officer on trial from the prisoner, from the police department, over. Wife's a teacher, suspended, but no arrests, no charges. He's got two kids, 20 months old, 4 years old. What's going to happen now? If that man really is a police officer -- and we don't know, maybe he is -- what will this woman, this 20-month-old boy do? He's telling you wrong, President, wrong. Have mercy, have mercy. You know, he said: "Don't pity, if you pity, you'll be miserable. " Have pity on the victim, and be just with the righteous, my dear friends. He's misdirecting you. Look, it's the '90s. People are being kidnapped in Turkey at any time during the day, at any time in the middle of the night. We've received dozens of people's lists, dear friends. I can read names. Who took him, what happened, no government here? Where are all these people? Sunay Diamond, I don't know, is an organization, which is Mustafa Özgür Gültekin, Hüseyin Evilce, Turgut Çapan... That's how it goes. It was done in the 1990s, and it's done in your time, my dear friends. How come you don't see them, you don't bow down to them? Look, there's something else. A very high-ranking bureaucrat of yours is therefore standing in Silivri Prison. Maybe it is, I don't know, the indictment hasn't turned up yet. But you suspended his son working for Turkish Airlines. What's wrong with him, guys? What's wrong with him? Now, Mr. Bulent Arinc's son-in-law has been arrested. Come on, arrest Mr. Bulent Arinc, or cut his pension. Is that such nonsense, such nonsense, my dear friends? You're aware of all this. There's no way a person's conscience could be completely destroyed. You know that. Let's hear it, guys. The people who run you, the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, when there's no objection, they think we're doing everything right. They're not doing it right, my dear friends. Take them out of each and every one of you, and bring them out of the thirsty. If something's wrong, fix it with your hand? But if you can't afford to fix it with your hands, tell me it's wrong. If you can't afford it, Mr. Aydemir, stay away from this mistake. Isn't that what he says? That's what he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Okay, thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0208par0296	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We are starting talks with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports on the Development of Industry and Supporting Productions, as well as the Constitutional Legislative Act on Some Laws and Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? It's in place. The Commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 485 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Yes, Mr. Altay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0308	Mr. President, according to the Constitution in the middle and the Constitution in effect of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we cannot discuss Bill 485 at this time. Sir, in Article 121 of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers, which has been appointed as president of the President, may issue decrees on the matter of the state of emergency. These decrees are published in the official newspaper and submitted to the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the same day; the duration and procedure regarding ratification of them by parliament is determined in the Court. The 121st article...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0208par0310	Let's open it up, folks. Let's finish it up, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0311	...in accordance with the 121 and 122th Articles of the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the provisions issued by the 121st and 122nd Articles of the Constitution of Turkey and the Constitution and the Council of Turkey shall be held in accordance with the rules of the bill and proposals. Now in this framework, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has 24 decrees issued by parliament again under the order of the Civil Code, since the commissions are not held within 20 days. Five of them are law enforcement. The General Assembly's agenda includes 16, 17, 18, 19 rulings.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0208par0313	19 of them. Now, here is the Presidential Court, where the presidency does two lame jobs, and the first one is...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0316	In this law, the provisions must be written at the top of the red book, according to Article 121 and Article 128 of the Constitution. In the title of the red book's proposals of the law, the General Assembly may take the matter into its own hands, leave this behind, but the General Assembly cannot violate the Civil Code and the Constitution. Sir, I'm the General Assembly, I'll do anything within reason. Then I propose that we tear up this Constitution and the Civil Law, and let the majority party be what they want. He'll hand over his powers to one person, so Turkey can be transferred and managed. Mr. President, this can't happen. Here, in this red book, as you have pointed out, the decree of 19 laws in the House must be written downwards, starting with one, one. Second: According to this decree of the Civil Code, we must now discuss the provisions of the law. So once again, I have a motion to discuss this procedure at the point where it comes to the conclusion and the integrity of other political party groups, as a framework of Article 63 of the Civil Code. I'm supplying, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0210par0321	Thank you. If you insist on a formal debate, I'm going to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0323	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0211par0324	Lehte...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0212par0325	Lehte...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0326	Against...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0213par0327	Against...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0214par0328	Mr. President, why don't you put your foot down? Put an attitude first...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0329	Don't run the president!
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0215par0330	One second... one second, Mr. Altay, I'm listening. I've listened to you, and I'll listen to that band, and I'll know what you're saying.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0209par0331	No, Mr. President, we offend you, we feel sorry for him.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0215par0332	No, I've opened up the discussion of the procedure at your request. Lehte, Mehmet Doğan Kubat, Mehmet Mush; against him, Engin Altay, Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kabbat, first word in favor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0216par0337	Look, you're fasting, don't say things you don't believe in, Doğan.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0217par0340	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you. In the procedure debate, Mr. President... we will begin negotiations with the 102-point bill, which is now known as the 102-point law on the agenda, along with the group's proposal, but Mr. Altay, our Republican People's Party Group Chairman, has initiated a procedure to suggest that it will not be possible for the Constitution to be discussed under Article 121 and Article 128. Now, my dear brothers and sisters, the extraordinary regulations of governance have been clearly arranged in Articles 119 to 122 of the Constitution. The application provisions of this practice are again in the 126, 127, and 128, of our Civil Charter; how extraordinary conditions are declared in these times, according to what method and basis is the government's release of the KHK, and how they are discussed in the Parliament; they are all in our Interior Charter. In the final joke of Article 121, the Council of Ministers of the President's presidency states that the State of Ministers can make a KHK on matters which the state of emergency requires, and the Article 128 is a matter of priority and urgency, but we still need to consider what needs to be understood from here in relation to other provisions. ▪ First contact means putting one of the next jobs in front of the other. What do we need to understand at the point of immediate discussion? We'll look at the Constitutional Court's decisions; it's understandable that they won't see each other twice, and the meeting is a one-time meeting. These are the consequences of the period before 1973. Now, my dear friends, there's also a rule of first and immediate discussion in the general times of the KHK in Article 91 of the Constitution, Article 90 of the Interior Charter. So I'll give you a few examples: 388, 1989, KHK; 233, famous, 1984, KSCE-related; 399, the staff regime-registered KHK, released in 1990, not the State of Emergency, but it has a obligation to be interviewed first and immediately, but there is no such example -- taken -- but there is no such example. Right now, on the red agenda, the state of emergency, which Mr. President mentioned by the government, is waiting during the KHK. In accordance with Article 49, these seats can only be taken by the Council of Counsellor's decision or by making special agendas under Article 50, which is under the authority of the Council of Counselling. Since the agenda is set at the moment, there is no other action to be done about it, it is not possible for the presidency to extradite. Thus, his attitude is correct, and there is no contrary to the Constitution and the Civil Code in the continuation of the talks. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0218par0347	Thank you. The first word against my conviction is in Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0219par0351	Thank you. Mr. Kabbat, the General Assembly and the Presidential Court have a decree on the provisions of the law within the framework of the law and first of all, the decree issued thirty years ago has been passed, and it is still not discussed. You are making an assessment. But have mercy, have mercy, have mercy! So you took an oath here, you swore to obey the Constitution, you swore to uphold the law, the order. Mr. Kabbat, you can't have seen the ruling that the Turkish Cypriots will be discussed within 30 days at the latest in 128. Not all of our members of the General Assembly should remember the Civil Code, but you, people like us, should know about it. Leave us, and do not falsify the Civil Code to your own MPs; it is shameful, it is sinful, it is sinful. I didn't see it right, I didn't see it right. Mr. President, I repeat, we will say, if the law is in the interest of the country, there's a benefit to the country. There's damage to the country, there's a waste, but there's the Constitution in the middle where you have to abide, and there's the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I mean, I'm tired of saying, lawmakers, that the law is not broken, but it can be broken, it can be broken everywhere, but if there's a place where laws and regulations can never be broken, it's the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If the law is broken here, how can we, as a government, tell the citizens on the street why did you break the law, brother? He says: 'You break the law where you set it. You break the law.' No, Mr. President, you shouldn't, it's not true. You should take a break, maybe make an evaluation. And, really, not just because we're against it, but because there are actually 19 HRKs waiting, people are victims. Look, I've just told you that DİSK, KESK, ENGLISH-HURK, and HAK-İSK are in rebellion, they are insubordinate to your KHK, and the State of Emergency is insubordinate to your practices. After the 15th of July, we told you that there was a firm and firm reckoning with the coupgers, yes, we're behind you, but with that, a rapid normalization and democratization. You put normalization aside, democratization aside, and you keep reckoning at the groom's level. So, what's it gonna be, where are we gonna go? Mr. President, the seat you're sitting in is an important seat, a valuable seat, and any decision to make there is valuable and important, even in our history a thousand years from now; I beg you to reconsider your decision. I don't think any of us have the right to violate the Constitution and the Civil Code so clearly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0220par0359	Thank you. The second word in favour of my conviction belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Mushan. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0221par0363	Mr. President, in his speech here earlier, in which he spoke, withdraw this clause, and we'll finish this tonight... I see that the issues he brings up now are actually an effort to push forward.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0222par0364	Everyone has an effort, Mr. Mush, of course they do.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0221par0365	Olives are the value of our country.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0223par0366	You fight for the rant, we fight for the people. Rant and the people...
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0221par0367	We've had very serious incentives from increasing the number of olive trees in our country to increasing the production of olive oil, we've had directions. And that's constant with numbers. Look, the law on olivery was made in 1939. We're in 2017, the country may have a variety of needs. It's like, sir, all the olive trees will be cut down, homes will be built, tourist facilities will be built. There's no such thing. First of all, there's no facility, no housing, no tourism; he's already shutting it down by law. The other is: look, a board is being formed. Who's on this board? The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism; Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism; Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Forestry and Water, the agriculture faculty there; the trade exchange room in the province; the trade and industry room or trade room; the Association of Olives and Olive Oil Exporters; the Institute of Olive Arts and Animalry. They'll come together, it'll be a board decision. After that, he'll go to the Ministry, and after the Ministry approves it, he'll be described as a public benefit. Such a serious control mechanism is being brought in. And look, I'd like to share with you the following few numbers on olives: the number of olive trees in our country has increased substantially from 2000 until now. So from 2000 until now, there is a very large part of power that has been held by the Justice and Development Party, starting in 2002. In the 2001-2002 season, its olive field increased by 41%, up to 845. The number of olive trees, 99 million, increased by 76 percent to 174 million. In the same way, the table olive production of 23,000 tons increased by 83 per cent to 430,000 tonnes. The oily olive production, 365 thousand tons, increased by 256 per cent to 1,300 thousand tons. The total production of oil, 600 thousand tons, increased by 188 per cent to 1,730,000 tonnes. Oil production of 65,000 tons increased by 200 percent to 19,000 tons. The consumption per person has increased from 1.3 kilograms to 2.1 kilograms. So in all the areas that you're looking at about olives, our country has actually made some serious increases, and that's actually an indication of how much we care about olives. There's no expression here for a power that cares so much about olives. They're not going to cut it off. They're going to plunder it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They'll turn it into a Rant area. Such allegations and accusations are baseless, inappropriate, and we don't accept them. It's a bill designed according to our country's needs. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0224par0376	Thank you. Now, the second and final speaker against Flitz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0225par0380	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm afraid that no law proposal you've made in a long time has made it necessary in the Constitution of 121, and you're doing this by ignoring everyone, in the form of a bag of laws. I mean, you may have accepted yourself so quickly, disbanding the House, but we didn't accept it, and our people didn't accept it, and our people own their own habitat. We've received hundreds of phone calls today, people say listen to us, hear us. And the MPs here can't actually read it. Because when you look at it, the report on the General Assembly's agenda, according to Article 52 of the Civil Code, cannot be discussed within 48 hours of the date of distribution. Have you had this in your hands yet? The MPs haven't read it. I mean, how is it about such an important law... that we're going to get today, once it's out of hand, that it's going to be discussed in 48 hours? But in addition to that, even if it's past and it's now 48 hours, how are you going to read the 102-point bill and its merits, you're going to look at the objections and you're going to make a decision? So you see yourself capable of anything by the majority. We grew up in olive groves, and don't women who grow up in olive groves, who have them, or who have them, you know, who get up in Kütahya and tie their white headscarves and come out, this is our field, you can't have them? Aren't you the guardians of the people? So you turn around and you really don't... all these people call you? I'm sure they do, and they're giving you their objections. There are many people who have come to the House today who have expressed their views and expressed their objections. Please postpone this. And really, it's time to move on to a little culture of compromise. What good is it if there is no democracy in this country? So the day before, I was in Copperville. The Copperville Mental and Neuro Disease Hospital was a 1,500,000 square metre area -- it's a very valuable historical fabric -- you're giving it to Ali Agaoglu, who does business with his rotten remarks. I mean, it's a shame, really. Destroy our history, destroy our past, destroy our memories; don't you have memories? Have a little respect for them. We're waiting for you to withdraw this and we'll see each other again.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0226par0385	Thank you. Members of the Parliament, the second statement of Article 128, titled the discussion of Turkish Parliament's decisions under the rule of emergency and martial law, titled the second amendment, shall be taken directly to the agenda of the General Assembly by the Parliament's Presidency, which has not been completed in the last twenty days. According to this arrangement, as we look at the red bookstore that you already have, 19 extraordinary conditions that are currently not discussed in the commission have been passed as President of the General Assembly's agenda. On the other hand, the 49th Article of the Civil Charter shall be determined according to the date of the meeting of business in the day. The decision shall be based on the implementation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on this issue. As a matter of fact, in the presidential capacity, the rulings under the law are on the agenda of the General Assembly. However, it is in the discretion of the General Assembly to consider Article 49 of the Civil Charter, the order of the decisions to be discussed and the agenda. The Justice and Development Party has just been submitted to the General Assembly's approval on the group's proposal, and the bill has been adopted on the agenda. That's what all of our established Parliament practices have been about so far. According to this, the EC PARTY group proposal, which has just been adopted, has moved the Law Bill 485 to the 1st place on the agenda. Therefore, there is no action by our presidency at this stage due to the lack of a Consultative Council or a political party group proposal adopted by the General Assembly to take decisions ahead of the agenda and discuss other matters. Therefore, there is no change in our attitude. We continue the talks of Bill 485.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0227par0388	Mr. President, I'm sorry, you said "red book" when you explained your decision in your speech. What is this red book? That's what I want to learn in legal language.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0226par0389	It's a pamphlet that shows the issues that are on the agenda in front of you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0227par0390	Where's the red book? It's not a red book.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0226par0391	That's the way it is with established applications. Mr. Tanal, you know better than I do.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0227par0392	What's a red book?
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0226par0396	The first word for the groups belongs to İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time has been 20 minutes, Your Holiness.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0228par0400	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the general legislature of Law Bill 485, which we discussed. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, although this law has been presented with a long title, it is more commonly known as production reform. As I have just said, this law has been presented publicly as a production reform, but there's one thing we've always stated in the English dictionary: "Don't hold back, correct." When it's called production reform, it means fixing and rehabilitating the current production system, but this bill, which we're about to discuss, usually -- if necessary -- has come to us in the form of a bag of bills that steal from every wire. Now, we have indicated that we are with you during the Commission talks, even though some of the clauses of the bill are delayed, but some of the clauses are extremely inadequate and some of the other important substances are seriously incompatible. The bill, which claims to increase production, includes regulations that would put olive groves, mechas, shores at risk and not befriend production. Whereas in this bill, valuable lawmakers: We could find a real road map, starting with a solid industrial policy, continuing with the preparation of industrial infrastructure and the development of its friend, and ultimately with the planning and support of production processes, but unfortunately we don't encounter that. More interestingly, Joseph Has Hadib says that the stake, the foundation of the country, depends on two things: one of which is the right of the people -- you will make a law such as this, you will make the rights of the people -- and the other one is the silver that is distributed to those in the service of the government -- and now, with this bill of law, you obviously don't treat both of these things fairly, nor do you bring the laws that are rightful to the people here, nor do you give the rights of those who are in the service as they deserve to be given as much silver as they deserve, and we are now faced with a little more gracious distribution of mines. This bill is doing some revisions in the Organised Industry Law, and we see a lot of that in the number of rows, dear friends, when we look at it. It lacks comprehensive and structural solutions, such as productivity and added value or advanced technology, branding, international competition of companies, unfortunately. Our industry has structural problems, and we're always saying that from these platforms. And here -- what needs to be done -- we expected that these structural reforms, reforms that would actually solve these problems, would actually be implemented, but nothing like this came to us from the precious Ministry. For 14 years, when we look at our industry, it lacks scientific and technological content, innovative and creative ideas, and its ability to develop and adapt products and production management and techniques is weak. So we're looking at an industrial structure with a high share of imports in both our exports and other products for sale. To prove this, let me bring to you the growth figures of the manufacturing industry: Our manufacturing industry suffered a serious loss of 2 points of momentum last year -- 5.9% in 2015, and 3.9% in 2016. So, where we come from, the government -- it has to -- will either find a new way to industrialize, or it will have to open up a new path. Because that's what the change and transformation of the world requires. Recently, there's been a wind blowing 4.0, you know, in the industry, and it's all over the place. And it's in this bill, and if you've opened it up and read it, you can see it here in the general reason. Of course, these sound very nice, because according to a study, Turkey's industry is 4. The potential for efficiency expected from 0 will be as much as $50 billion, and the impact on economic growth will be 3 per cent. That means he's got a serious stake in it. That's the bright side. And then there's the other side, so let's turn it around and look at the other side of the mirror. So here, in order to do that, our total investment would have to be 10 to 15 billion dollars minimum. That's not enough, and the percentage of employment that's going to lose its job is a negative issue for us at 20 to 30 percent, when there's very serious unemployment in Turkey. There's a serious need for national strategy, so what we're talking about as industry 4.0 is not really a matter of blowing a wind like that. The real trick is to do a SWOT analysis on this, but so far, such a study has not been presented to the public. If anything serious is to be done about this, we have also stated in the Commission that the government authorities should start by increasing the weight price of our exports. What do we mean? In 2015, the kilogram price of our exports was valued, 1.37, when we compare with Germany, $4.1, there's a significant difference. Which we need to raise from minimum to $3, and then we need to find a better, more likely discussion of these events, such as the industry 4.0. I'm looking back to see if the ministry can implement this reform with its current structure, and, frankly, it's clear that the Ministry itself needs a structural change. I think this should be reviewed, too. Dear lawmakers, the development of our industry also requires an industrial strategy to ensure this structural transformation. We discussed it in the Commission, but what was understood by ▪Strategy, unfortunately, was not very clear in the Commission talks. Even though we're talking about it, we're filing a report, it seems we need to explain this one more time during the General Assembly. This is what we've been talking about in terms of what we call this industry strategy: first of all, reducing the dependence of manufacturing industry on imports. Secondly, when we look at product and production management techniques, there are arrangements for high and medium high-tech production. Another issue, I just said, is the issue of increased employment, quality workforce, and finally, the most important issue is, you know, maybe that's something that we've split up with economic management and government, and we think that a policy of economics based on hot money, sale of assets and construction should be given up. Here, to implement this strategy, again, we come to the issue that is not in this bill, dear friends, about industry incentives. If sectoral incentives are run by other ministries, the ministry concerned with industrial incentives, which is now the government, which should be run by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology sitting during the Commission, and is run by the Ministry of Technology, then we're talking about a freak because it's different from the one who determines policy and the one who encourages it, dear friends, that prevents us from making the expected jump in the manufacturing industry. I'm guessing the government will agree to that. On the other hand, it says a long time ago: the industrialist will not spend his money on the land, on the building. We're going to give the land, the building; the industrialist's going to come, we're going to assemble the machines, and we're going to run the key delivery factory. In fact, we, the National Movement Party, take this one step further, and we say that in some sectors, strategic sectors, or in some import-based sectors, the government guarantees acquisition. So, let's not just build a key delivery factory, let's take this one step further. Is there an application for this? I'm afraid not. The issue of demand-directed inflation in Turkey and supply-directed inflation has been debated since I started college, valued lawmakers. What's earlier, and what's later, has been a subject of a lot of econometric studies, but what we're really talking about here is the cost of the private sector's high financing and its contribution to inflation. See, organizations such as the Istanbul Industrial Chamber, the Aegean Region Industry Chamber, published some studies immediately this week, and in those studies, companies admit that they have survived to the extent that they can reflect financing costs to sales figures. So these enterprises, which are under costly and interest-based inflationary pressure, will either close down or put out workers, or you, as a government, will have to have a certain amount of support. So, does the bill bring an arrangement to those who have a problem with it? I'm afraid not. Let's move on to the other thing. Is this bill able to solve the problems that have been going on for 14 years in organized industrial areas that are tired of bureaucracy? Not again. Then, what must be done? Dear lawmakers, many problems today remain a heavy burden on the SME. Some of these are: There are some competitive disadvantages due to the scale problem, our COBILE. They face problems with access to funding. There are relatively high-cost jobs, and many problems are causing our SMEs to melt slowly within themselves. Now, steps in this regard are also a subject that contributes to social peace in our country. Now, what I'm going to come to from here is that in the last few days, there's been an announcement from a company called KOSGEB -- again, an organization of the Ministry -- that will be given loans to anyone who provides no interest, under certain circumstances, up to $50,000. In fact, these announcements are very high, up to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister has made this announcement. But, look, this good news has come to such an interesting point that the system has been a complete disappointment. The person who received 20,000 liras, not 50,000 liras, did not meet an official who could find out why he had received 20,000 liras, why he had applied and was sent to the bank. My dear friends have made no comment as to where the businesses are going -- they're so proud of the Loan Guarantee Fund -- these days -- they're over $180 billion. According to a study by the Banking Organization and Control Agency, when we looked at this distribution of loans, only 10 to 15 per cent went to a capacity increase and renovation investment. What about the others? The others are vaporized. 30 to 35 per cent of the loans used were used to pay off debts, some of them went to TL and foreign currency deposits, and all of this is very clear and clear in the BDK data. So no one's interested in production, investments. He prefers the reciprocity of high interest companies or corporations, banks in particular. This, of course, does not have a positive effect on our economic growth. Dear lawmakers, our industrialist has an expectation, look, I'll rephrase it from here to you: the creation of cheap financing, production areas, which is what they've always been told is planned industrialization, and the development of technological infrastructure, and it's what the industry expects from you; it's what the government expects from you. I just told you, if you're going to build a key delivery factory, do it, even go further, bring me the purchase guarantee I told you to do. These are essential issues for the industrialist. Now, I'm going to come to another point, which is a very interesting subject, again, which is in the number of rows. We have 63,649 businesses on 135 small industrial sites, which are called small industries, which will move out of the city. Okay, let's move it. Well, what about where they're gonna dump it? Again, what does this have to do with this bill? When we look at the issue, we call it production reform, but I've just told you, if we don't give up construction or the concrete economy or the runt economy, we won't be able to achieve quality and sustainable economic growth, precious MPs. You leave these arrangements now, and I'll pass on the data of TESK, the Traders and Artists Confederacy of Turkey. In January 2017, according to the previous year across Turkey, our number of trades was reduced by 10.2 per cent, which is now reduced to 1 million 807,000. Have we thought this through? Is that part of the bill? I'm afraid not. So I did it, I did it. Look, aside from your understanding, it's the tradesman who needs to be moved, and he wants you to support infrastructure and partnership activities for integration and clustering. He wants new insights into innovation and initiative, shopkeeper. He wants technology development, alternative approaches, education, counseling, mentoring services, tradesmen. Above all, lower the burden of taxes on me, insurance premiums, says dear friends. Now, I'm coming to the most important issue: this issue of olivery came six times during AKP rulings, which is the same thing that we face in my constituency and in my country. You know, they're always saying, "Are there people calling from the country?" They're looking for it, and they're looking for it a lot. It's the seventh time he's come back. In the commission, 2 articles have changed as a result of the talks, but the most important item -- added to the product -- has changed a little bit more, and so here it is, the 2nd article. All our motions have been denied. Obviously, I'm going to share another matter that I'm very surprised to share with you here: in the hours leading up to the start of the Assembly's General Assembly, the delegations from another province are making further attempts to penetrate the 2nd article. I don't know, any motions at the ruling party? And frankly, it's no surprise. With these 77 articles coming in, it's 102 articles with temporary supplements, my dear Minister. That's interesting, I said it there. I don't see how that's a law-making technique. We see in your governments that a bill from the government has been drilled and altered in such a different way. Before that, there wouldn't have been so much change. Mr. President turned it into a kitchen. Then I told him: you always cook and eat yourself. My president isn't here either. He must have broken it. Dear friends, what's wrong with this arrangement: If we look carefully, 750 thousand families will be affected by it. It's a matter of olives that makes up 3.5 percent of our farms. What's interesting here is that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting is given this authority, a Protection Council is being formed. In our talks with our friends at the Commission, we tried to bend and change the structure of the Protection Board, but it stretched so much, we put two other organizations, it came up with nine, and now it's up to 11. Dear friends, we're going to experience the same process as the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has done before during the CED process. What did he do? The Ministry has made an application that leads to serious problems. He left the practices of the CED to the governorships. Now, Mr. Secretary, you're doing the same thing at the point where they're being left to the governors. Believe me, we have an app that will cause serious problems for Turkey. Dear friends, there is a serious problem with the field. In Turkey, the mera fields have shrunk, and some arrangements are expected, while unfortunately, the mera fields have been reduced and brought to our attention. Another issue is the arrangement of coastal areas, my dear friends. In the first instance of the bill, the entire coastline was covered, while again the objections to the Commission became a limitation on the province of Tripoli. Now, I wonder, won't the esteemed deputies of other provinces on the shore of the Black Sea expect any? I mean, our Group Deputy President Erhan Mr. Samsunlu, I think he might be in some kind of trouble about it, or he might be in a certain demand, very normal Mr. Erhan. Now, about the college issue, about the NGO. My dear President, I'd appreciate it if you'd include me in that time, just a few minutes. Here's what's important: there's another motion that comes to the last minute Commission, which has been discussed several times in the General Assembly, and here's the arrangement for the retirement of the lawmakers when they get back to college. Believe me, there's a serious problem.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0229par0434	Pick it up in a minute, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0228par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, it's an arrangement that leads to serious trouble. I think we should put that aside, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers. In this bill, the industrialist expected a 25 per cent price advantage in public purchases, but unfortunately, the bill remained very tough, left it at 15 per cent, and the inadequacies don't come up as a proportion to meet expectations, unfortunately. Dear lawmakers, the remedy is not the day-to-day arrangements for this bill we're discussing, but I'm reputing it once again. I think we need to reassemble the structural solutions, which we can call production-friendly, real reform, and reassemble the production and the economy. That's why I say that the present, chronicized problems need to be looked at from a broad and comprehensive perspective and a national integrity framework, and that Turkey needs to stand up for production as soon as possible. Once again, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit03spe0230par0443	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit04spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-06sit05spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there are no other jobs available on our agenda, it is Wednesday (June 7th 2017) at 2:00 p.m. to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I wish you good evening, closing the assembly at 00.
