tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0002par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0001par0004	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0002par0005	I'd like to express our party's opinion on a matter that I see is very important that will directly affect the work of the House. I'd like to present this to both the information of the other groups and the General Assembly, sir, in a process you'll see fit and appreciate.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0001par0006	I'll give you my word after the extracurricular talks, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0002par0007	Okay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0001par0008	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Mersin MP Ali Cumhur Taşkın, who wants to talk about World Warfare Day. Here you go, Mr. Excessive.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0003par0015	Mr. President, I have taken a vow off the agenda on June 17th, World War Against Desertization Day. I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I ask for Allah's mercy, his family and his relatives in the hospital where the terrorists were wounded in the traitor attack in Kozluk district of Batman on June 9th and were treated yesterday. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear lawmakers are reducing the yield of desertification, which requires all humanity to fight and take measures for the future of our world, causing vegetation to deteriorate, causing shortages by reducing food production. In addition to environmental problems, desertification, which prepares environments for migrations, conflicts, and wars, brings important social problems. Desertification, land decay and drought threaten the world's 4 billion hectares, 1.5 billion populations living in 168 countries directly. Our struggle with land destruction as Turkey is based on many years in the cradle of Asia Minor. Turkey is in a position that is vulnerable to desertification and erosion due to its geographical position, climate, topography and soil conditions, but is being modeled in the world through its efforts to combat desertification and erosion. Between 2002-2016, 3 billion 700 million saplings were introduced to land in our country. Our country is among the top three countries in the world, one of the rarest countries in the world, between 1973 and 15 years, that have both bought and raised forest existence as a wood fortune. According to the 1963-1972-year inventory, the 20.2 million hectares of forest have reached 22.3 million hectares as of the end of 2015, as a result of forest reforestation, erosion control and healing. In 1972, our wealth of wood in our forests was 0.9 billion cubic meters, and today it rose to 1.6 billion cubic meters. One of the most important reasons for desertification is erosion. The amount of land carried by erosion has dropped from 500 million tons to 168 million tons, as part of activities such as logging, erosion control, rehabilitation of corrupt forest areas, mera rehabilitation, river reforms. In addition, strategy documents continue to work with greater goals for the future, Turkey with action plans. Fighting desertification and erosion is not enough for the country's borders, but for co-operation agreements, projects, education, and especially for the capacity development of less developed countries. Dear lawmakers, the resources of land and water are not unlimited; they belong to all mankind today and the future. Everyone who lives on this land has a role in fighting desertification, including individuals to the ground, states, private sectors, civil society organizations. It is vital for a world where people are aware of their responsibility for future generations and act on that consciousness. Since 17 June 1994, the United Nations Convention on Fighting Desertification has been celebrated every year as World War Against Desertization Day. It is intended to draw public attention to desertification, to create awareness. With the awareness of the importance of the issue in our country, every year on the Day of the Battle of Desertization on June 17th, different events are organized and the importance of the issue is aimed at attracting people from all sides. The adoption of our home, our land, our future consciousness of each individual is the most basic step towards fighting desertification, as the United Nations Anti-Secondation Secretariat set out for the June 17th Day of Desertization. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are looking at the fight against desertification from a global window and trying to fulfill their duty with that sense of responsibility. Not just for himself, but for the sake of working for the welfare and happiness of the whole world, I salute the Day of the Desertization of Turkey and all the countries of the world, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you, Mr. Excessive. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, who wants to talk about cigarette smuggling. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0005par0028	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise about the growing, unstoppable cigarette smuggling in our country every day. I salute your high council. I'd like to bring this up on June 26th, as part of World Drug Use and Anti-Trafficking Day. Dear lawmakers, smuggling is a multi-dimensional, multi-actor and variable process that has affected our country financially and socially, providing financial support for the activities of terrorist and criminal organisations. Smuggling crimes are committed directly by violations of the border as well as irregularities or deceptive procedures in customs transactions. From illegal cigarettes, both the Turkish economy and the state's tax-paying tradesman are known to suffer. Dear lawmakers, the smuggling of tobacco products that have affected the development of our country's tax revenue, the development of legal market competitive conditions, and especially the funding of organised crime organizations related to terrorism, appears to have increased by the end of 2010. The reasons for this trend are that tobacco products can be easily provided, the punishments for smuggling tobacco products are not deterrents like drug crimes, and there are factors such as high profit returns. The threat of smuggling tobacco products is growing for our country day by day. It is estimated that the tax loss caused by illegal cigarettes seized during 2015 by the head of the Security Directorate's Anti-Trafficking and Anti-Organ Crime Agency has reached about 800m euros. The PKK is among the findings that the KCK terrorist organisation has established so-called customs points outside our country's eastern and southeast borders, and that large revenues have been provided by cigarette traffickers who are passing through the country under the name of tax. According to the 2015 Report on Trafficking and Fighting Organised Crimes, about 69.7 million packets of illegal cigarettes were seized in 2011, while the amount seized in 2015 increased by 35 per cent compared to the previous year to 143m packages showed the extent and seriousness of the work, but it is estimated that with recent increases, cigarette trafficking will reach much higher. In the past years, illegal cigarette trade has been carried out, especially on the border with Syria, Iraq and Iran -- and it has begun to take place in our homes -- in recent years, as it has been done in almost every province of our country, and is now in the counties. The business is so out of control that even in many parts of Ankara, our capital, this trade is being made. For example, this trade is being made in Ankara near Ulus New Hal, in front of Ulus Anafartas Market, near the official institutions, in front of law enforcement agencies, by storing cardboard at the buffets they rented from the Metropolitan Municipality and in the shops they rented. An important part of the fight against terrorism is the draining of the funding of terrorist organisations and especially PKK separatist terrorist organization, and the prevention and control of illegal smoking, which leads to cancer and other diseases by threatening human health due to poor production and unhealthy hiding conditions. A meeting on the fight against cigarette smuggling on December 2, 2015 at the Ministry of Interior's co-ordinatorship stated that the law needs to be regulated. Although about a year and a half later, the legal arrangement has not yet been made. Mr. President, I would like to stress in particular the sale of illegal cigarettes, which are also accepted by intelligence reports that the separatist PKK terrorist organization is a source of funding, in a situation where those who have been identified as a threat to national security should also be tried. Or else, unfortunately, it will not be possible to prevent this illegality, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Ceyhun Ýrgil (Irkil) who wants to talk about Turkey's health table. Here you go, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0007par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. My fellow lawmakers, aside from today's agenda, I have made a promise to draw your attention to certain matters, especially in the health care sector, which you are very proud of and often use in your political work, in health, in health, in health. Guys, the Health Transformation Program is about to turn into a health disaster. In particular, in the main headlines, the dating system, non-responsive surgeries, unnecessary examinations and procedures, additional payments and differences and matters of city hospitals have become a serious challenge to the health system. As you know about the dating system, one of your biggest criticisms was that there was a huge pile-up in hospitals in the past period. Today, there is no physical collapse in hospitals, but we face three or one months of study and treatments, three months and six months of appointments. In fact, you know this very well, because many of your patients and patients are calling you for privileges or intervening in these matters. In particular, there are serious treatments in hospitals for violence and loss of health and health care, especially because doctors are under certain stress and pressure, and because of health problems and diseases. In particular, we see that some surgeries can't be performed in many hospitals and are transferred to private hospitals. In these matters, I strongly urge the government to take precautions. In particular, there has been a significant increase in unnecessary examinations and tests and procedures in recent years. There have been 25 million MRIs and CTs in this country as of 2015, for example, only because of the failures brought by the performance system or because of the pressure or stress or pressure on the processing physician, or because of further examination of the practice physician. So almost a third of the country was given MRI and CT. You've said a lot of things about additional payments and differences, you said free health care, but at 11 points, patients and especially patients have to go to private hospitals because they can't get a lot of health care from public hospitals, and here they pay by 200 percent. City hospitals are a great burden to both this country and this nation and bring disgrace. As we're about to talk about, city hospitals are actually one of the problems that most of you don't notice today, but will cause a great deal of trouble over this country in the future. I'd like to give you an example: 17 city hospitals, for example, will cost $9 billion, but the government will pay these companies, the companies that receive this tender, with the numbers of 2015, $27 billion, so it's a matter of 1 coll, 3 al. Another example for Isparta City Hospital: Isparta City Hospital was finished, and with its 25-year lease, 55 city hospitals could be built. One of the most important issues in the field of health is the failure to keep promises to health workers. During the last two administrations, you personally promised health workers in the parliament and in the areas of the rally that you were in, that they would get their pensions fixed, that they would be treated with injustice, and that they would be staffed. Most importantly, you made various commitments to the adoption of the law of violence in health, the last time you repeated those words on March 14th, but there was no work or action made in the House. Friends, physicians and health workers are unhappy and desperate. It is not possible for physicians and health workers to be happy and to receive qualified services if they are not happy. Especially with the serious alarm bells about medical schools. I'm warning our friends at the Health Commission and the Ministry of Health in particular that medical schools are going under or most of them are about to go under. Because you encourage private health care, especially because you do not solve economic problems in medical schools, medical schools are unable to serve, without material, without medication. Right now, you have four or five very important problems that you face every day. One of them is an ICU bed. You know they're looking for all of you for the ICU bed. The number of ICU beds needs to be increased rapidly, and the shortage of qualified specialists needs to be shut down immediately. The doctors left hospitals where they worked in many different areas, and the best thing you can do to get them back to public health care is to increase public health care, return to public health services. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Congressmans, the non-responsive talks carried out according to Article 59 of the Interior Charter are now over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding word. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Before 2016, students with vocational education and students were paid for in businesses, while there was no regulation on paying for students who continued training and finishing training. On 2/12/2016, Law 6764 entered into force. From now on, students who continue internship and complementary education will also be paid a fee. In Hatay, the nursing department has difficulty finding an internship hospital. Will you have a study in which public hospitals will be forced to admit students to internship for the solution to this problem? Do you plan to stop your internships from being a student's nightmare? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0010par0069	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. The way is the cause; for the cause of death is the one that walketh, without hesitation, and drageth after it continually, despite the set that cometh forth. Our path is the path of justice. We will continue to disturb those who are uncomfortable with the terms of the Republic, the democracy, the justice, and the freedom. With us, there is room for those who devote themselves to this holy path, not to those who sail their ships in the water, but to bring true justice. We don't support the father-son walkers, but the father-son walkers for justice. A support was born today, like a sun from our lzmir. We look forward to the day when we will meet all the citizens of Izmir. Remember, if you use justice as a weapon, boomerang will come, find you and shoot you. Finally, sometimes I say a whistle knocks down a dictator, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0012par0077	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0013par0079	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our justice march initiated by Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu continues with the applause and participation of the public. We march for justice in the morning, then join the General Assembly. I address those who are uncomfortable with our march of justice and who say that justice is not sought in the street. If you can't do justice in the courts, if you've made justice dependent upon the judiciary, if you've made biased and biased decisions, justice, let alone the streets, will be searched everywhere. If you want to restore peace, peace, brotherhood in the country, do not withdraw your hand from the judiciary, politicalize judges and judges; follow policies that will embrace everyone, destroy tension, strengthen brotherhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0012par0081	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. More than 500 scientists from countries such as Germany, France, America and England signed a text highlighting the academic slaughter in our country. Scientists calling on all academics around the world to suspend relations with institutions such as the NGO, TÜBITAK. They have called for the return of unfairly expelled academics to their jobs and to end the pressures and injustices against academics who have increased their violence under the State of Emergency regime. We will establish justice for everyone in our country, especially scientists, in the third day of the justice march, led by our President, Mr. Kemal Kildaroglu, who is the voice of academics, journalists and all those who are being wronged, who are seeking justice in the international world.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0012par0085	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Last winter, the snow fell on gardens and homes in Mersin Arslanköy, Kavakınar, Yavca, Kerırtar, and nearby villages. In those days, I personally went into the area to investigate. The local people make their living on the fruits of these gardens. The Agricultural County Department has assessed the damage and has provided state support for some of the victims before the referendum. The uninsured have no support. The lack of insurance for victims shouldn't stop the government from reaching out to people who have suffered losses. Our villagers ask that the damage to the victims of the disaster be compensated and that the necessary support be provided without distinction. I'm calling the authorities on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0016par0090	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0017par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Our president and thousands of citizens behind him continue the righteous march for democracy, for all of our people, for all of our innocents, for the grieving parents, for those who have been wronged. One of them went up to the street. He says, "Let them take the fast train and the tram." It's a sign of their mentality, their point of view. But we're full of highways, we're flooded, and we're all singing the same song: In school, I write your name in my notebook, in my desk, in the trees, I write your name on read leaves and white pages, I write in the fields and on the horizon, on the wings of the birds, on the mill in the shade, I'll write your name on the path that is awakened, and on the road that is stretched out, and on the squares, O freedom!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0018par0099	Mr. Imran Sword...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. From the smallest to the smallest, all beings in the universe have a spiritual value beyond their physical value; they all sing the praises of God, prostrate and pray. The Qur'an commands that plants, animals, and all things are not soulless, callous, lifeless, and purposeless, that they have a balance, order, and purpose. All beings are worth a great deal more than creation. If the creator is not involved in existence, history, and life, and there is no other life after this life, what is the point of being moral, honest, and virtuous? What's blind to the blind? This world is a mountain that will resonate and return to us, he says. Our world and everything that is in it is a trust in the people's command, to protect it, to develop it, to grow it, not desert it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0018par0103	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0020par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, two days ago, we continue the Justice March, which Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our esteemed President, started. I've just come from a walk and we're continuing our justice watch in the House. This march of justice has been a beacon of hope for all our citizens who are as concerned and concerned about the future of our country as it is for the oppressed and the victims in our country. We march to the full command of politics, or rather the judgment of one man, not the court, but the nation's judgment, to be neutral and independent. We seek justice that is lost in our country and through this mentality, and I remind you once again that justice is not only for us, but also for you, for everyone in this country.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Ministry of Education Training Training and Discipline Board has changed its weekly timeline at secondary schools in the following school year. He dropped biology in all classes in three hours. He also taught religious culture and ethics in two hours, which has been practiced for over an hour. The Ministry of National Education has once again shown that it does not prioritize science in education by this amendment decision. Are we surprised? We're not surprised. Again, when we look at the charts, we see that the English history and Ataturcism class have been moved from 11 to the 12th class. Don't learn about almost the Ataturk revolutions to the 12th graders who are preparing for higher education exams and whose school attendance is low. Such fine changes during the weekly period have been made, rather than for the purpose of quality education, a political decision has been made.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0023par0113	Mr. Sütüdağ...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0024par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Milas 2. In social media sharing, Justice Kemal Koç says: "When does Kemalism in schools leave? " It is the latest stage of black propaganda against Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our great savior, who recently established our state and founded it. In particular, it is not acceptable for a member of the judiciary to express such an opinion. Does the Justice Department agree with this, or does the government agree? Is there an investigation against this judge against Ataturk and this unjust attack on our educational system? Is there an education being given against Ataturk and his republic when the judge is being trained? I'm asking our Minister of Justice to see if your Ministry has any sanctions against these types of judges who are officially and openly political.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Nuriya Gülmen and Namih Özakça were expelled from their jobs in accordance with the provisions 675 and 679, and protested at Yüksel Street for a hundred and twenty days before demanding their return to their jobs, and then began their hunger strike. This is the 101st day of the 2 academics' hunger strike. The health of our unfairly exported teachers is becoming dangerous every day. We are confident that these two intellectuals, who you have declared terrorists to keep the public from being persecuted in order to distract the public, have nothing to do with them. She can't walk now, she can't hold the pen that you took illegally. The Ministry of Justice did not allow Ankara's Medical Office to examine Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça. If nothing is done these days, they may suffer permanent damage, even deaths. In this regard, I invite the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Government, Parliament's Health Commission, the Chamber of Medicine.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0023par0121	Mr. Burcu Koksal...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0026par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Justice for the Justice March, which we have launched under the leadership of Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, accused our President of slandering the independent and neutral Turkish judiciary and targeting judges and prosecutors. I ask him: About 4,000 judges have been employed since July 15th, when the prosecutor was discharged, and according to the interview results released in the past few weeks, how can 900 judges use the expression of the prosecutor's 800.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0027par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. For justice to be a true justice, I thank you once again to all our people, who have supported the march that Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu has launched from day one and who never denied his support on his 3rd day, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And I say justice for humanity, justice for democracy, justice for freedom, justice for bright tomorrows, justice for our future children, and once again justice for my beautiful country, Turkey. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0028par0131	Mr. Gökdağ...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0029par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu continues his great march for justice. In the matter of justice, the Great Leader Ataturk says: "There is no action in the affairs of the people, in the affairs of justice, in the affairs of the people, in the affairs of the people, according to the feelings, in remembrance, and in friendship. If there is no justice in a country, there is nothing but anarchy in that country, and there is no such thing as government, and there is nothing there. So there is a right in the world, that justice and justice are above the absolute power of power. Dear friends, this march against injustices in the country is for the justice of 80 million, for the freedom of 80 million, for the peace and brotherhood of 80 million. Don't forget that justice is needed for everyone one day. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0030par0137	Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0031par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Hatay has stated in the local media that the adoption of the Woodöpö Dam of our Minister of Forest and Water has begun. It is known that 346 thousand per cent of land will be watered for the rising of the dam. However, during the 15-year period of AKP ruling, during each election period, this issue is always brought up. Our farmers wonder when this dam rise will end. We're expecting a statement from the Minister on this one. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0032par0142	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. The first word is Erkan Akçay. Here you are, Mr. Erkan Akçay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0033par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night, again, unfortunately, 69 of our soldiers were poisoned by food in the First Infantry Training Brigade at Seyfettin Çalbatur Barracks. A total of 1,116 soldiers were poisoned in Manisa on 23 May, and a total of 1,116 soldiers in the District of Kırkmağ on 27 May. Our soldiers are still being treated. There's no way we can handle this third case in a month as an isolated case. We can't see these events as a simple result. Again, on June 11th, there was a similar incident in Diyarbakir, where 39 of our soldiers were poisoned. That's enough, we don't think it's going to be such a mess. It is necessary to assess, investigate and investigate cases of poisoning, which have been identified and expressed as the result of our soldiers' food. I hereby ask our troops to get well, and I wish them a speedy recovery, and as the National Movement Party Group, we will be closely pursuing this matter. Today is the anniversary of the death of our 9th President, Süleyman Demirel, of the praying names of Turkish politics and state life. Sulejman Demirel has contributed substantially to the development of democracy in Turkey in his political life over 40 years. In his political life, he's based on national will. On the other hand, Solomon Ironel had a great service and contribution to the development and development of our country.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0034par0151	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0033par0152	With all the work and memories he left behind, the Turkish nation will always remember Demirel with gratitude and respect. On this occasion, we once again remember Solomon Demirel with mercy, gratitude, and respect. Today is the Day of Desertization and the Battle of the Drought. Each year, the United Nations highlights the danger of desertification with different slogans. This year's slogan is ▪ Our land, our home, our future. Without soil, there's no plants, there's no agriculture, there's no life, there's no human. The soil is a habitat that we can't rebuild and we can't buy. The average amount of 743 million tonnes of land in Turkey per year carries erosion. Yet, our country's farmland is dwindling year after year; in 2002, our agricultural area, 26.6 million hectares, reduced to 23.7 million hectares in 2016.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0034par0155	Complete, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0033par0156	Desertification and drought are one of Turkey's most important environmental problems. It is possible to maintain food security in the future with the protection of soil and water resources from now on. It's one of our most important duties to leave a Turkey that has no worries about dehydration and desertification for future generations. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I give you my word to Mr. Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. As of today, our co-chairs and deputies are under arrest; at the same time, CHP MP Enis Berberoğlu was arrested two days ago. This is a clear violation of Article 83 of our Constitutional Court's decision on Balbay and other MPs, the European Convention on Human Rights. This is a coup against the will of the people and democratic politics. Once again, I call on the Constitutional Court to ensure that democratic politics is no longer antagonized and our country's reputation is no longer damaged. Furthermore, yesterday was the 100th day of the hunger strike, which was launched for extradition by Nuriya Gülmen and Semih Özakça. It is unacceptable for the government to remain silent while artists, intellectuals and politicians in the country say that these two people should be heard. In addition, experts say that after the 90th day of hunger strikes such as this is over, it is no longer days, even the hours are important for the absence of permanent damage to the human body and brain. Therefore, I call upon the government once again to return these two people to their jobs, which are the grounds for the start of the hunger strike, and to address the reasons for the hunger strike of these two educational workers, on behalf of human rights, universal values, conscience, the responsibility of being a state, to be a government and a duty and a responsibility. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0036par0168	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0037par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the possibility that parliament may be closed today, Isparta MP Irfan Bakr spoke two days ago to our 9th President Sulejman Demirel, bowing before his service from his birth, before the presidency and before his memory to his death, both Isparta, and to the family of Süleyman Demirel. We repeat that speech as our group today, and we remember him once again with mercy. For the fourth time in a month in Manisa, it reflected in some media organs, some of which reflected in the East Barracks, West Barracks, and 40kre, but yesterday, there was another poisoning at Manisa 1st Infantry Training Brigade Command in the West Barracks. Unfortunately, in his statement, the governor did not show signs of poisoning. He again made an early assessment of it, but in the first cases of poisoning, salmonella reproduced from the soldiers. So there's very strong evidence that our soldiers were fed dead turkey meat, dead turkey meat before slaughter. We submitted a motion to the parliament to investigate the matter, and I was one of its signatories, and Mr. Mazlum Nurlu, a member of the Manisa MP, had spoken and spoken, but unfortunately, the ruling party had been rejected by votes. After the absence of the research commissions, which we consider to be important in the history of Congress, he suffered a great deal of tragedy. We invite the Justice and Development Party once again not to close their ears, their eyes, to go over this matter with both the power of the House and with all the control opportunities of the state, and to truly determine why.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0038par0176	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0037par0177	Mr. President, in the coming minutes, we're dealing with an important matter that I'd like to bring up as much as possible in the hours. There are things in this House that shouldn't happen. Seven MPs from the ruling party who forged ballots had put the House's reputation in jeopardy. But now a decision is being made at a meeting in which no member of the Republican People's Party has attended. The decision is to write down lawmakers who attend the march here, and to break the resistance of that march; perhaps they have other goals. The decision is grave. We're going to talk about content, but what's even worse is that when we want to investigate this, we've been given the verdict number June 15, 2017/40. We have two decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0038par0179	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0037par0180	All of these decisions, except for Article 4 of these, are identical to the initials on the first page, the initials on the first page and on the second page in the original decision, but later, in the decision passed today from Parliament, the expression of any of the votes has been changed to ▪. It's counterfeiting. The two decisions made by the Council of Parliament were made by changing a word, and through the initials between the first page and the second page, it appears that the decision that has been processed has been falsified, and it appears that the document has been falsified. We're going to keep bringing this up, we're going to discuss it in terms of its content, but we're going to have to look into it by you, and we need to find out both the political and administrative responsibility for fraud. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0038par0182	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0039par0183	Yesterday's decisions are invalid.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0038par0184	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0040par0186	Mr. President, thank you. In the 2nd year of the death of 9th President of our Republic, Süleyman Demirel. Since 1995, the United Nations has commemorated June 17th as the Day of Desertization and the War on Drought, a very important issue. As a result of global climate change, there are threatening developments in the world in the areas of agriculture, efficiency, fertility, our future. Lack of water, drought and agricultural production do not only lead to dramatic consequences, such as hunger, but also one of the main issues of future international tensions and new imperial politics, one of their basic themes, one of their topics. In that respect, I'd like to stress that it's not just a matter of agriculture, it's not just a matter of drought. In the London fire, in the apartment -- it's not yet clear how many people have been burned -- there's been information that over 30 people have been burned and lost their lives in the media for several days. It's very dramatic. The events after that are actually dramatic. We've been monitoring this very carefully - more Sudanese, Eritrean, third-world people in a social home, and disinterest is a big question. Those who lost their lives there, of course, according to their beliefs, I wish them mercy or good land.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0041par0191	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0040par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Free Special will surely be examined, but I would like to point out that I don't find it right to rule as soon as it's clear what it is.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0042par0194	It's obvious.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0040par0195	So let the Presidential Court take a look at what's going on. In the end, Your Honor may make a special assessment, which may say there are different statements, but I would like to point out that I find the accusation of fraud very wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0043par0197	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0044par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in this June 15, 2017, and presidential court decision 40, we benefit from the reevaluation of this remarkable situation by the Presidential Court, making this hesitation clear. We also regretfully learned about the death of the mother of the Republican People's Party's Artvin MP, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan. We wish the deceased God's mercy, our condolences and patience on Mr. Uður Bayraktutan and his family. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0045par0204	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Special, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0046par0207	Mr. President, first of all, I've sent copies to other opposition parties that I have, and this forgery... The content is a separate argument, but it's a separate argument that there's a paper that's clearly been forged in an official document. I thought the ruling party was good for it. I'll tell Mr. Naci now. Also, Mr. Group Vice President, we thank the MHP Group for their condolences to Mr. Bayraktutan. Yesterday, his condolences were sent to our group. I spoke to him one more time earlier today, and he sends his thanks and thanks for these good wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0047par0210	Thank you, Mr. Special. Congressmans, today is the anniversary of the death of our 9th President, Mr. Süleyman Demirel. Mr. Demirel is a person who has served our country as a bureaucrat, as Prime Minister, as leader of the political party, and as President of the United States. I remember Solomon Demirel on the anniversary of his death, and ask God's mercy. I need to make a statement on what Mr. Free Private has expressed: Yesterday, the topic mentioned was in a press release, and I asked for an example of the decision after reading this article in the newspaper. In my example, there was a decision that the MP, who did not participate in any of the roll call made at the General Assembly, would be ignored in that merger, but today came to me, the second decision that Mr. Special Wasn't talking about. And I found that there was a decision in the polls at the General Assembly that, even though he had attended only one, including the roll call, that the MP would be considered to be part of the unification of that day. I asked our friend, the President of Laws and Decisions, why. He stated that the matter was discussed in the Presidential Court and that the decision was taken in the direction that was delivered today -- Mr. Special -- which reached you. Of course, since I didn't attend the Presidential Court the other day, I don't know about the arguments there. I see there's a real hesitation in the direction you're talking about. I'd like to make that clear, of course, based on the transcripts, but right now I'd like to make an assessment on this decision based on the decision made by the President of the Laws. I'd like to make my point, Congressman. The 96th article of our Constitution contains the number of meetings and the number of decisions that are sufficient. The basic rule is in our Constitution. Based on 550 MPs, the number of meetings consists of 184 MPs, and the number of decisions sufficient consists of 139 MPs. The 57th article of our Civil Code contains provisions concerning inspection. According to the first joke of Article 57 of the Civil Code, the President will make a roll call if he hesitates after opening the merger. If he does not hesitate, the meeting will be sufficient. It's called observational roll call. After this process was conducted here, after the General Assembly was opened, who was present in the General Assembly at the time, who was not present, and who was not evaluated, there is no way to determine that. According to the second joke of Article 57, at least twenty lawmakers may request a roll call, as they sign a vote during the talks. This is often seen by our General Assembly. Now, in what way is the Presidential Court's decision important? The presidential court's decision changes the first joke in Article 57 of the Civil Code, because the first joke of Article 57 says: if the president hesitates after opening the merger, he will do the roll call. If there is no hesitation, then there are all lawmakers. The Court of the Presidential Court says: "If there are no polls made in any of the polls made during that day, including the inspection with the client -- there is no way to determine the polls made during that day -- there is no way to determine -- that MP will be disinherited." The Presidential Court does not have the authority, Mr. Lawmakers. The Presidential Court may have made such a decision, but the decision is illegal. Where does that matter? The last joke of Article 84 of the Constitution is important in implementing it. In a month's time, the parliamentary legislature of the MP, who did not participate in the 5 unaccompanied or without an alibi, ceases to exist. It leads to this: Political party groups trap each other. Congressmans, there may be difficulties in the Civil Code rules, there may be a new need for civil ordinances, it can be discussed, it can be discussed, it's different issues, but I don't think it's right to make an application, which has been floating through the years, such as the number of decisions, as the number of times, by making it impossible by the decision of the Presidential Court. In fact, this is contrary directly to the final joke of Article 84 of the Constitution. The MP, who did not participate in 5 mergers within a month, says. As soon as the General Assembly opens with observation, MPs are in the General Assembly. Where is it, Congressman? He's not at the hearings. You know, the combination covers a whole meeting, and we call the time between the two intervals......... The MP may not be in session, but there is a combination, there is sufficient number of meetings at the opening of the General Assembly. As they are called, the combination of MPs has been adopted and merged. Notice that congressmen always open a merger at the opening, call each other when they're taking a break, and then they open the session after the break, and they don't open the merger. Yes, so I've shared my views with you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0048par0222	Mr. President, I'd like a quick word.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0047par0223	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0048par0226	Mr. President, I'm with you on the terms of the Civil Code and the Constitution, which you've made with your experience as acting chief of the group, as well as with your experience as acting Speaker of Parliament. But out of context, we have a problem, which is that just now the House, the Laws, says the decision is as follows. We have paraffin copies of the decision made -- as follows from here. The first page and the second page's initials are one-on-one, which is reflected in the press, although today's decision is true. There are initials on the first page, a person's initial on the second page, in which the bureaucracy prompts us to do so. There's a lot to discuss in the context -- I agree with what you say -- but it's not a forgery in the document; it's not the Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The forgery part of this document must also be prosecuted. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0049par0230	The countermeasures are invalid. They're invalid.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0050par0231	Thank you, Mr. Special. This is also a matter that needs to be evaluated, and I cannot comment on that. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0051par0235	Mr. President, thank you. This is about a decision said to be made by the Presidential Court. This decision will certainly be discussed and debated by the Presidential Court itself, and, in fact, all political parties have representatives there. We don't know what it is yet, what kind of decision was made, what kind of decision it was made, it didn't come to our group, for example, such a decision, we don't know anything about it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0052par0237	Yesterday, the House had a reading of the verdict. Some of the articles were made to read.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0051par0238	Now, no, from time to time, the Presidential Court -- as all of us follow -- is able to agree on some issues outside the Civil Code that are not in the Civil Code. For example, the matter of a one-minute commitment to 15 MPs when the sessions are opened is not a decision made in the Civil Code. That's what he's doing with the alliance, making it appropriate for the Court of Presidents to do so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, from time to time...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0053par0241	Mr. Bostanci, the practice you're talking about is not the Presidential Court's decision, but the agreement that the representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are among themselves. In fact, such practices are carried out by the agreement reached among parliamentary MPs. This is the basis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it is a very powerful source of our parliamentary law. If a change is needed here, it would be a good idea for the Speakers of Parliament to come together again and make this change. Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the new year in our country, suicides have increased alarmingly. Aside from the reasons for psychosocial development, there is no doubt that suicide has various social and economic reasons. In its simplest definition, "a person who willingly kills himself has to be investigated for the causes of increased suicide in literature in recent months, and in an emergency, various measures must be taken. In the last month's socioeconomic suicide attempts and cases, the only reason for suicide is not because of the effects of individual psychological situations, but also because of social reasons. Some reports of suicides in writing and social media are remarkable in this sense: A 13-year-old boy in Kayseri hanged himself a day before getting a report card. It was reported that the little boy's grades were bad and that he committed suicide by being depressed. A subcontractor who couldn't get his money from the contractor company in Efeler district of Aydın, poured gasoline on it and burned himself. The man who was transported to Ankara by helicopter lost his three-day survival battle. "I'm tired of this life, I don't want to be a burden to anyone." He left a written note and committed suicide by hanging himself. Ercan Koz, 23 years old in Yenice district of Karabük, killed his father Recep Koz, 46, a police officer he was arguing with for not giving money. Ercan Koz Zonguldak, who injured the driver of the taxi he was driving, injured another driver on the way to his car, injured his vehicle. When he realized he was going to be caught, Ercan Koz, who held the gun to his head and fired, died in the hospital where he was being removed. A teacher in Yenişehir district of Diyarbakır was reported to have committed suicide by jumping from the 6th floor of his home because he could not be appointed for February appointments. The incident took place at around 2 p.m. yesterday (February 10, 2016) and the teacher, who was depressed because he did not receive a staff at the 30,000-strong appointment, threw himself off the 6th floor. Cansel was a 12th-grader at Kayseri Melikgazi on 21 February and his teacher Bayram Ö.She was raped and ended her life two days later. Although some of the suicide attempts and cases mentioned above are still being investigated, it is evident that the reasons for suicides in the news generally reflect Turkey's concrete conditions, which are shaped around reasons such as lack of money, economic dissension, depression, harassment, rape. Such as "I'm tired of life, I'm tired of life" in suicide notes, the unemployment stemming from insecurity of teachers and students, concerns about the future, and the end of their own life for financial reasons also provides various information about Turkey's concrete conditions. Thus, suicide appears to be not only a personal psychological problem, but also related to the way capitalism's political state permeates everyday life experiences. All these processes have forced us to investigate the psychosocial and economic causes of suicides. In order to investigate the causes of suicides, to determine the socioeconomic causes of suicide, to improve social psychology and individual everyday life experiences with various policies and to determine the psychological support of people exposed to unsecure, I respectfully submit to the establishment of a research commission based on Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of the TBMM Institution. [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] [[40s.]] [[Çanakkale]] 6) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] 14) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Hakverdi [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Samsun]] 26) Kadirri Enis Berberoğlu [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although Ankara is known as a dry and thirsty country, it is a rich city with water resources. Many streams and teas pass through the middle of the capital, quietly and quietly flowed because they're all covered. Kavakıdere, Hoşdere, Dikmen Creek, Bentderesi, Tütsu Deresi, Ceşımlik Deresi, Cypriot Village Deresi, Tütsu Deresi, Tüçk Deresi, Çukk Deresi, Çukukk tea, Hatip tea, Dikmen Creek, Bayındır Deresi, Kutlugün, Kepir, İğdeleli, Macun, Ergazi, Suzutlü, İmrahor, Teaway, Cevzizlidere, Kirazlidere, Kirazlidere are waiting to be set free of protection. The rapid population growth of rural migrations, the urban transformation that failed to pass modern squatting, the distorted urbanization, the unplanned development, the development runts, the wrong place, the wrong election decisions and concreteization, has been cut off from feeding streams. As the city's waste was poured into the streams, these streams were completely destroyed, and in the last 60 years, the city lost its water supply, its soil, its vineyards, its gardens, its fresh air, its numerous diversity of floras and faunas. After that, the grim picture of today was created by trying to hide, to cover up the dirty, smelly creeks. The Ankara streams, with the avenues and subways on them today, are still functional. But preventing the natural flow of streams, closing the waterbeds, the pin is as dangerous as a bomb that will drop at any moment. While many cities in Europe have been set up on the edges of waterbeds, we have been deeply concerned for experts for years with the great risk of floods, landslides and earthquakes that have been established on the creek beds. The natural beds of the capital creeks have been pushed underground, covered, and it is necessary to fear that the condemned streams will one day rise up and fight back against our betrayal with extremities, dents, explosions. The flooding incident at the college subway stop has been caused by the underground stream, or even the dents that have formed from time to time, causing even loss of life. There was a mortal collapse in the vicinity of the General Staff, where the School and Dikmen Creeks flow down below. We have to reunite Ankara's underground waters with freedom. One of Ankara's major underground sources, Slimk, is in a large layer of rock. The ability to sustain this resource depends on its diet of rain. However, because this layer of rock in Slimk was covered with false thick construction and concrete, the source and rain were cut off and the water source entered into the institution. Plain Tea feeds the Mürted Plain covering the 1,550 square metre basin, which leads north to south, located at Sarayköy Dağyaka Shield Place in Kazan. The wolf's throat dam stores most of the Ova Tea debi, reaching Ankara as drinking water with a closed line. Ankara mujavir operates in the area of aquifers, which remain relatively clean within the area, for the purpose of watering drilling wells opened by ASKI. The Kazan-Ova Tea aquifers are included in the drinking water system by ASKI. This region is abandoned to the recycling industry, the ruthlessness of the galvanian industry. If necessary measures are not taken, soon the soil and water supply will be contaminated and the poisoning process of the Ankara people will begin. Kazan, agriculture and animalism, underground and aboveground waterways and water basins are the capital's organic feeding and clean habitat -- dozens of nuclear pollutants built along the E-5 Highway and a county that deserves to be cleared of the dangers of the hazardous waste industry. In all the districts of Ankara, we demand the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution to rehabilitate rivers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although AKP government officials have rejected each and every time, information and documents on the relations with ISIS are constantly reflected in the public, the investigation of the AKP-ISİD relationship is more essential in each reflected document. In this scope, we propose and provide for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution in order to investigate AKP-İSİD relations. The AKP government has brought the country to the brink of a major crisis with its missteps in foreign policy following the start of the Syrian civil war. The AKP government has experienced total political bankruptcy from 2011 to today, setting the Kurdish forces of the peoples of Rojava as a target for protection from both the Assad regime and the gangs after ending the process of resolving Turkey's policy of having Bezar Assad's seat in the Syrian civil war. At the root of the understanding leading to bankruptcy in the AKP's government, it is the dream of romanticized Ottomanism and primitive nationalism, which builds itself through Kurdish opposition, ideologic blindness. As a way to avoid bankruptcy with ideological blindness, various gangs in Syria have been linked to various organisations that have not created a single source of legitimacy in the Syrian people. The organisations at the centre of allegations that the AKP government is having an affair are IND, Al Nusra and Ahar-ush Damascus, respectively. Against these allegations, the AKP government insists that it is associated with a gang group, particularly the ISID. However, in exchange for AKP government's persistent refusal, several reports of AKP-İSİD relations continue to appear in both national and international media reports. The recent documents concerning the relationship between the AKP administration institutions and the employees of these institutions are Ankara 3. The trial has been seen in sources at the High Criminal Court. Information and documents on this relationship, which has been reported in Turkey and the world's public opinion through the press, are blood-free for the people of Turkey. Our party's rally in Diyarbakir, the press statement in Suruç as part of the revolutionary youth's relief campaign for Kobane, we want peace in Ankara. The event of the tens of thousands of tourists meeting with its sister, with tourists coming to Turkey in Sultanahmet, has been exposed to İSİD's bombing activities in Turkey, while Turkey's A. U.S. Lieutenant A., Burak U.S. Lieutenant, Abdullah Lt., U.S.A. B. (M.). U. (A.) High-ranking soldiers named K.H.I.D. met with Mustafa Demir, a gang member who organised bomb transfers to Turkey, dozens of times on the phone. In these talks reflected in the court case file, the presence of senior soldiers who are negotiating with İSİD's criminal (Isil-AKP) offers strong evidence of claims. In these talks, talks have been made to ISIS that various materials have been delivered, that point detection has been made for vehicle entry, and that many more talks have been made. In addition, testimony has been made that an intelligence officer and an ISIS member were working for JITEM and that a soldier who was detained at the border with 49 Musul consulate employees was taken as a result of negotiations. Just a few days after the public reflection of these recordings, on the day of the ceasefire declared in Syria, some of them were attacked by ISIS gangs, alleged to have come from Akchakale, Gire Spi. At the time when this attack was eliminated by YPG forces, President Erdogan said, "70 per cent of Tel Abyad has fallen into ISIS's hands. Several local and international sources have made a statement about ISIS's attacks, and have expressed evidence and evidence that ISIS has attacked Gire Spi from Akchakale. In previous processes, it has become more essential to investigate the relationship with the added information on the information, documents, and doubts of the AKP-İSİD relationship. We ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened in order to investigate AKP-İSİD relations. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Dora, before you went on the agenda, you had a request for the 60th Amendment. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0054par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. It is the second anniversary of the death of our 9th President, Süleyman Demirel. And on this occasion, I ask God for His mercy again, and remember Him with all due respect. We've also heard of the death of the mother of our CHP MP Uğur Bayraktutan. I wish God's mercy to his mother and my condolences to him. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0055par0350	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Saturday 17/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 17 June 2017, it was suggested that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament for the unspecified problems of city hospitals 4859 rows, given by Vice President Ahmet Yıldırım, be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in the presentations on Saturday 17/6/2017, and the talks to be held in the same date. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Erkan Aydın is a member of the Union. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0056par0365	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on city hospitals. I salute you all. Yes, our march against injustice that surrounds every aspect of life today is on its third day. Our president, along with thousands of others, is walking towards Istanbul, Maltepe, and our screams for injustice are increasing. Ozdemir Asaf says: ▪ There is no justice without human beings. How can you be unfair? No, of course not. But, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unfortunately, one of the biggest parts of the injustice in Turkey is in the health system. A large runt arrangement, which is being held under the name of city hospitals, unfortunately, has become widespread in our country. In fact, it's not called organizing city hospitals, it's called privatisation of the last parts of health, it's a kind of a sort of a sequel to the secondary and large capital centers. A new zone was created, unfortunately, under the condition that the university and public hospitals were completely purged and were deliberately damaged under the name affiliation, as well as their valuable parts of the city's capital, along with those agreements, should be given to subsidiary companies who received these tenders, and it was called a public-private partnership, and global capital was incorporated into the game. All non-paid health services are now being purged. I mean, the more money you have, the better. If you don't have money, then God help you, you're doomed. In terms of large capital, of course, it's a very profitable investment area, a very lucrative one. So, the workers who work here, the medics, the doctors, the nurses, the pharmacists, what about these? These don't have any job guarantees. The most recent example is the city hospital in Isparta. Look, the money guaranteed to the business firm, the company that's now guaranteed... the workers, the doctors' return capital fees, their watch holders, the payments that have been committed to the company were cut off. If there's no solution to this by July 1st, the doctors, the nurses will quit. I mean, they can't even undo what they deserve. So why did they do it? Because commitments that can go up to forty-nine years, but are usually 25 years old. Let's continue with the same examples, and then we'll go into the numbers. The Hacettepe University, where I graduated, will soon be transferred to a place called the Institute for Health Sciences, including the University of Gazi, which has not been paid for about 15 years. Why? Because the debt of all university hospitals has come to 4 billion -- 4 quadrillion old coins -- and because it is not paid -- is being damaged. Under the name Health Sciences, Health Ministry, and then the city hospitals will be assigned to the side. An example took place at Elaziğ Fırat University. Just recently, the chief physician, Dr. Mohammed Said Berilgen - God rest his soul - was killed in his position for the purchase of a $5,000 medical firm. These things, if they continue like this, I'm afraid they'll increase, and we'll have more of these cases. Gene Mersin, you know, a city hospital was opened. Our Mersin MP Huseyin Pineak has made his findings here. Imagine a city hospital, 20 minutes to go from one end to the other. If you need medical supplies during surgery, if the unit with that material is far away, the patient in surgery will die until the material arrives. Even the doctors who work in it have a hard time finding rooms in the hospital, finding an O.R. So, what was it made for? 1,500 beds, outside the city, where no ambulance can come in an emergency, where no patient can reach here. Since those boutique hospitals in the center of the city have been destroyed and have valuable properties, a new land area opens up on the side as a new profit area. Come on, sirs, don't waste it. In this health, transformation projects are now considered a business. So the Constitution withdraws from the social state concept of our second amendment to a place that is completely undetermined, where the person with the money can receive health care, which is also specialized under the name of the Change of Health Programme, and where it will end up. Now, let's see, these city hospitals are rented to supporters for 25 years under the name of public-special partnership. When you look at it, three years' rent is enough to build this hospital. So, what happens to the rest of the 22 years? It's in the family's pocket as a profit. So, you're just getting a hospital run? Besides, M.R.I. services, computer CT, lab services, medical equipment, parking lots, restaurants, hospitals, pharmacy locations, all of which are free of taxes and tuition, are now officially being taken by these international subsidiary companies, or every corner in the city, to companies whose name we all memorize. There are no cost and risk calculations. It's a 70%-full guarantee. What does that mean? Customer guarantee. Yeah, what's the guarantee of the disease? She won't be sick, maybe not at the time. There's no such thing. At the end of the month, a patient will be able to pocket this supporter's money by 70 percent, just like the Ottomangazi Bridge. It's a system that starts with bridges that's covering hospitals today. Let's see again. The construction of the 1,200-bed hospital in Erzurum is $193 million, with the old money. The public-private partnership, which is the 1,500-beded Kayseri Hospital under the name of this city hospital, costs 427 million, which is 137 million dollars a year's rent, and the annual rent price of a hospital that costs 427 million is 137 million. With a year-and-a-half rent, you're going to be able to build a 1,200-bed hospital -- with a guarantee of rent for half a year -- 70 per cent guarantee, you're going to hand over this nation's rights to those who come under orders, to those who come under orders, to the names, but know this, you can't account for either of them. And that much nepotism comes from somewhere. The highest price for the 800-bed hospitals and buildings, which Gene TOKI is making for GATA, is $130m; the tender for the public-private partnership of the Iconium Karatay 800-bed hospital is $246m. The rent fee for this hospital will be 87 million a year for 25 years, so the rent price for 25 years is 2 billion 219 million. Look how many hospitals you can have, and all you're gonna get is two quadrillion dollars in old money. Whose money is this? You probably don't take it out of your pocket and pay it; you pay it on taxes, people don't eat it, they don't drink it, you pay it on taxes to the government. Examples are too many, but we can call the name of this model as follows: "Let's do it and do it. " (Applause from CHP rows) With this model, you give 90 per cent of the highway, whatever bridge there is, they do it, they run it; a dollar job goes up to $5, and they split at the end. We have to leave this now. And I'm very low on time, but I'd like to say that these tenders that go up to forty-nine years, I assure you, are going to be a pain in the ass for those who do these things and those who make them, and those who sign them, and those who bring this model, and those who bring it, and those who bring it up, I say, "Eat my fur, eat it." And I'm saying that the model will come back from somewhere, and -- this early -- I'm telling you, so that the citizens will find out, and you don't know, and you don't know.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0057par0384	I saw the one in Erzurum, and I was amazed.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0056par0385	Be a fan. Of course, it takes you 20 minutes to get to the end of it. He's in surgery, he can't come if he wants something, something, something, but you're a fan, that's another thing.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0057par0386	I'll show you around if you want.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0056par0387	Let's go for a ride. I've been around. It's done in Bursa, look, it's 30 miles outside the city. If he had a heart attack, he'd be dead by the time he got there.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0058par0388	We have so many ambulances.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0056par0389	So eat my food fur. I say he'll be back from somewhere. I give you all my regards, thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0059par0391	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0060par0395	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions for the motion on the matter of high-profile lawmakers, honorable citizens, city hospitals. While our country's agenda has major problems, such as security and justice, health is also important for the Turkish nation and its administrators. Today, I'm going to give you a very serious picture of city hospitals with public-private partnerships. What about the city hospitals, which are told by honey and honey, with a public-special partnership? We get a hospital without money coming out of our pockets. They say it's the truth, but it's not the truth at all. Even lawmakers of the ruling party, who are sitting at the moment, built hospitals all over the place without money from our pockets, can or do so. My fellow citizens, honorable lawmakers, I invite you all to be discreet and to think about what has happened to you from everything you've heard for free. Let's think about who gave what to whom for free, and what work did the foreign investor lose in our country, all of you. How much do hospitals that are said to be built without money from our pockets cost us and even our grandchildren? Look, I'm telling our grandchildren because there's no way a single generation is going to be able to remove this stake from our homeland, because these concessions to the point of surrender are no different from the capitulations of the Ottoman state. It means "capitulation" or "private" or "private" or "responsibility" or "responsibility." The AKP government, which mortgages even the future of our grandchildren, is unfortunately borrowing even future generations. If this were the right administration, he would not have allowed a foreign joint venture to be paid $3 billion 443 million to build a hospital that would be built for $427 million. My fellow citizens, do you have any idea what's going on in these city hospitals with a public-special partnership? The land is given from the free state; loans for investment are provided from state banks. The investor is again paid by the state for a large amount of money, guaranteed rent for twenty-five years, and even guarantees are made by a certain amount, or 70 per cent, from the state. If he doesn't come in sick enough, he'll pay the government just as much as the patient who doesn't come in. Paramedics are being provided by the government again. That's not enough, all trade permits within hospital campuses are from the government again. The guarantee of profit is from the state treasure. The bottom line is, unfortunately, we're giving 25 lira to strangers for the government's investment of $3. I thought we didn't have any money in our pockets. But they're right, this money isn't coming out of the gentlemen's pockets, it's coming out of people's pockets. Let me give you another example: no one can object to these numbers and rates: the Ankara Ethics Integrated Health Campus, which would cost $1 billion,97 million if the government did it, but the AKP says: Make this hospital private, and we'll give them the privileges we just made. As a result, the project costs the state, the Turkish nation, $6 billion 900 million. My dear citizens, the damage our state, the Turkish nation, has suffered from just one project is exactly $5 billion 900 million. Now, think of 17 projects like this, and the amount of money that's going to come out of the pockets of companies for these 17 projects is going to come out of the pockets of the state, the nation, even the next generation, is 81 billion dollars, 81 quadrillion dollars. Now, another hospital was built last year, and a total of 18 hospitals cost $105 billion, which is 105 quadrillion in old money. My fellow citizens, now, look, I'm asking you from here: pay raises in July, right, civil servants, pensioners? Let's see where these raises stay. Here, with this 105 quadrillion, it's possible to raise our pensioners, our officers, our farmers, as much as they deserve. The AKP may exist today, there isn't tomorrow, but no one has the right to spend this country's future as if it were an inheritance. Lo! we are a people well-nigh, so believe in Allah, and those who trespass against us shall not be joined together in this world nor in the Hereafter. As a citizen, I can't accept an investment that will pay itself in three years, that our state will pay rent for 25 years with the signature of the AKP government, and I don't approve my rights for twenty-two years. This government has passed us, and now it's in debt to our grandchildren. I will never accept this hump and this stake you've staked the government with. When people lose, the winners will be judged in consciences and courts. On that day, we'll be reading together all the time about who is next of kin and who is responsible for this construction-and-rescue project. I'd also like to address three years of tunneling, bridges, and brothers working at the airport: you'll be looking for jobs again after those constructions, but those companies will get a good cut of the taxes you pay even when you're out of work for 25 years. The government's money, unfortunately, is coming out of this nation's pockets. So, have mercy on the AKP government. Finally, we hope that the government takes the current climate of unity and unity one step further with the principles of governance, which can be transparent and accountable. Look, for example, we call it the Eurasia Tunnel. Yeah, we really appreciate it, it's a beautiful structure, but is that the only way to get a contract on this structure? Look, our Minister of Transport announced the other day that Mr. Ahmet Arslan says that 18,500 vehicles pass through the Avrusian Tunnel every day.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0061par0407	It's gone too far, it's gone too far.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0060par0408	Yes, it did, but that's about a quarter of the 68,500 vehicles per day guaranteed to the company. So, who's paying the company a price of 822,000 TL, which costs 50,000 vehicles per day? The Turkish nation does. Look, I'm calling from here, you know what we should all do together? Let's face it, let's renegotiate these deals for these beautiful facilities. Otherwise, look, as the years go by, we're gonna keep hurting, and where's the damage gonna come from? He'll come out of us. Look, this project of city hospitals with public-special partnership was tested in England 25 years ago. So, what happened after the trial? Do you know who sold most of the hospitals here with a public-private partnership, and for very cheap amounts of money? To the United States of America. What about the rest of the hospitals? The rest of the hospitals have closed down all the other sections, particularly the intensive care, so as not to damage them. They've just kept the departments open, which provide polyclinical services, including MRIs, CTs. Well, then, what are we supposed to do? Here, we need to look into the procedures of all these countries. Why? So our country doesn't get hurt. Otherwise, everyone wants all these facilities built, everybody supports them, we have no problem here. But when we make these deals, please be a little more careful, because we have about 6,200,000 citizens in this country who live on minimum wage, or $1,400, and we have 11 million pensioners who live on between $1,500 and $2,200. I salute the General Assembly with love and respect, thinking and expressing that this constructive opposition of ours will take into account the power.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0062par0413	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. In favour of the proposal, Garo Paylan, Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0063par0417	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Really, we're dealing with a city hospital shortage. We've been warning power for a while, but besides opening our warnings, there are new contracts they've signed, new contracts they've signed. Look, in the short term, these might be acceptable, and our proxy just told me, here are the luxury hospitals, how beautiful, how beautiful, how beautiful, how beautiful the O.R. is. It's beautiful, really. Why not? Let our people meet these, well, look, I'll give you a billion TL example, a lot of examples can be given, but for a hospital that's invested -- if you're paying $25 billion in rent in 25 years, there's a problem here. There may be other accounts in this account, but no one can convince us. I'm a financier after all. If the state is making an investment and it's going to be run for 30 years, if it's going to be run for 40 years or 50 years, everyone knows the proportion between its investment and the rent payment. When a person buys a house for $100,000, they rent it for $1,000, don't they, fellas? You can rent a $200,000 house for $1,000. Is a person who invests $1 billion worth of rent paid $1 billion a year? For God's sake, think about it. Is that even possible? The minister couldn't come in and give us the waste of it. The Plan and Budget Commission guys couldn't account for it when the budget went through. The government is coming: our budget is equal, my friends, it's beautiful. You're mortgaged 25 years, 50 years with the do-and-do-runs. You keep this year's budget, you make it look like you're investing in people, we make roads, we build bridges, we build hospitals. You're putting an investment of $1.10, $20, $30 on this nation's back for 50 years. Dear friends, look, there's either a fool here or there's a trick, there's no other explanation. When these signatures are being signed -- I'm telling you clearly -- there's either a malice or there's corruption, and as long as the House doesn't look at it, it's corruption. Eurasian Tunnel, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osman Gazi Bridge, they have points that we're against in the ecological framework, but if we support them, bridges will be made, but maybe the North Forests won't be broken. Velev, the bridge has been built, and you're guaranteeing passage. If you think about it, you're building a grocery store, and you're telling that grocery store that I'm going to shop for $10,000 from you every day. Who wouldn't open a grocery store like that? You open a butcher's shop, I'll buy 300 kilos of meat from you every day. You say, "I'll buy it at this price." You say, dollars or not dollars. You know, if it's 20 liras, I'll buy 500 kilos of meat from you every day. Who wouldn't open a butcher like that, fellas? Foreign capital has found a cow to milk for 20 years, 30 years, 50 years. Excuse me, I'm sorry, but let's not get into this situation, guys. Come, let's take a look at this together, there's something wrong here, there's a mistake. We're asking the minister, he's not responding, you're the problem, you're the ruling party MP, there are consequences in the future. Dear friends, there's nothing wrong with financing -- there's a serious problem -- but look, the world is leaving hospitals this size. These methods have been tried, and I've been to this hospital, and it's really bright, and it's beautiful, and it's a nice deposit. He's in town, isn't he, what does a man do when he needs a hospital? He gets on a tram, he gets on a bus, he gets to the hospital in ten minutes, or you have an emergency, and the ambulance comes in three minutes and takes you to the hospital in five minutes. For God's sake, it takes less than an hour to get to those hospitals. By public transportation, by two means, by three means, people are going to go, they're going to go, especially in the big cities, and the hospitals on this scale, friends, look, they're not running, they're going to go. Now, normally, the chief of staff runs hospitals, you know, and he has an executive. They're small-scale hospitals because they're the Chief of Medicine. If you think about it, appoint a head of medicine to a city hospital, 100,000 square feet of construction site, a chief of staff is dealing with it, is it possible, my friends? And here's the thing: you build a city hospital, and you pile up all kinds of expertise. Look, this model has been abandoned in the world. You know, the supermarket model, everything in it. I mean, even in shopping, there's all this stuff, you know, you get these expertises, food stuff, building materials, but you're stacking everything up in a 100,000 square meters of health care, all of your residency, including the heart, the skin disease, there, there, the internal disease, there, the tooth, there, all the expertise. What about this kind of thing, guys? Is it possible that a Chief of Medicine could run something like this?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0064par0427	What do you know!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0063par0428	Can a business manager manage it or not? It's not. Hospitals on this scale are abandoned abroad. In the city, because it's chaos in cities -- emergency access clinics, emergency response centers, and outside the city, residency hospitals are being created, friends. Let's say in America, Houston specializes in heart, another city specializes in internal disease, some in dental disease; in that area, hospitals are opened, and those cities form such brand cities. I'm going to throw, Burdur could have been a major in the heart, could have been a major in it all over the world, and Burdur could have been a brand of it, but there's a point in the world where our people can reach it comfortably, in every city, in every city, in its neighborhood, where everything is moved out of the city. Why? Two reasons. One: what I'm talking about is a model of a work-and-work model. Two: the land within the city is precious, my friends. Now, let's take a look at the anchor, the surgeon. Look, from my family, professors came out of Chapa and Surgery, experts came out, maybe you have family, friends. Let me put it this way: how did these expertise come about? That's the data deposit, isn't it? The teachers gave each other hands, the new generation, the expert, the one you'd run to if you had a problem with. Why? The doctors who took possession of it as skilled doctors were in the city and in places where people could grow up comfortably. The anchor, Surgeon Pasha, is in a state of misery right now. Why? It's not an investment, it's under debt, it's moaning, and go, right now, their building is in a terrible mess, and worst of all, friends, all the teachers have escaped. In the last seven years, 80 percent of his teachers and 90 percent of his teachers are no longer there. They went to Yazbadem University as a tutor at the private university of something or other. Because why? You pay ten thousand liras, they go there, they meet these teachers at $50,000, 60 thousand liras, 70 thousand liras, and the Chapa and the Surgeonpaşa have been emptied, and under debt the inferno has been groaned, and no investment has been made. What happened? Sir, we're going to build two major hospitals in Istanbul, out of town. We'll also open up the fields of Çapa and Surgeonpaşa in Ranta. How beautiful, precious lands in the city centre. The world has abandoned this model, my friends. There must be good, quality hospitals in the city centers where our people can get good service. The tram passes ahead of him, the subway passes through him, and the train passes by him, and the coach goes by him, and the surgeon goes by him. We need to invest in this frame, guys. We've opened our schools as well as the schools in the good places in the city center, sir, the hotel motel, that's being built and taken out of town. We do the same thing in hospitals. That's not true. Getting all the services at a single hospital downtown doesn't bring a quality, good, accessible sense of health. In the same way, this much commercialization of health, friends, health is not commercialized... go, look in the countries of Northern Europe, they never commercialize two things: one: education, two; health. Never! The state gives its best services to its citizens free of charge and in health, because if we have assurances of two things, we can look to the future with confidence: If we can get the assurance of the state's good education for our children, we can look to the future with confidence, and when we are sick, we can see with confidence that the government can provide free health care for us.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0065par0434	Are you saying it's free in Europe? People take vitamins so they don't have to go to the doctor in Europe.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0063par0435	People send their kids to private schools because they can't take care of it. This is how the government deals with private investments that allow people to face both money and poor health care. Come on, let's set up this research commission, let's go through it together, let's get these paintings out in front of the government, folks. My respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0066par0439	She's not getting her teeth pulled out in Europe.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0067par0440	City hospitals are the biggest theft project this country has ever had.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0068par0441	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. Vural Kakuncu, Kütahya MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0445	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I also want to thank you for giving you the opportunity to explain city hospitals once again. With the EC PARTY, Turkey is experiencing a great development and change. The priority is health policy and health care. If you go out to society, when you speak, kill the king, but give him his due. You will also see an important development that even the voters, who are loyal to the opposition, say, deliver our health improvements and rights. In this period, city hospitals are one of the most important denominators of this transformation. Yeah, we've got 30 city hospitals with 42,000 beds right now. Three of them -- Isparta, Mersin and Yozgat -- are open, 18 projects continue, two in the tender process, seven in the tender process. We, however, would like to provide our citizens with the particular infrastructure that will provide advanced, qualified health care in the world's standards as much as they deserve. It is true that we set aside about 280 to 300 square metres per bed for a patient; it is a policy. We say to our citizens that we deserve it, that we want our citizens to have this kind of service, that's how we build hospitals. Tell them: "This is a luxury for our people, we are against building a hospital like this, we are saying a different kind of hospital or health model." Look, if this wasn't happening, there'd be a lot of talk about their shortcomings and their problems. When different setbacks arose in the past, opposition MPs were saying here: "Is it a city hospital, an urban legend, or why is the city hospital there late?" We're doing it now, and now it's a thousand bucks for mud and scribbles. Of course, it would be helpful to pass on accurate information to our citizens. First of all, you're talking about a guarantee of treasure and rent. There are no guarantees of treasure in any tender, according to the previous tender -- 18 and 3059, according to public-private partnerships. So far, we don't have a contract that guarantees rent and treasure in tenders. You're confusing something, in all of this...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0070par0449	Patient guarantee...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0450	In all of this...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0071par0451	Patient guarantee...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0452	There's no patient guarantee, sir, and there's no guarantee of fullness. Let me tell you this again, let me teach you, let me tell you about it. Please listen. There's no guarantee of fullness or patient beds. There are patient guarantees in some service purchases -- these are imaging, labs, here's food, some waste services. Right now, if you're in a video auction before city hospitals, you're making that guarantee. What's it based on? It's about the 70 percent guarantee. A projection of the future at 70 per cent of the current patient potential at the time of the tender. These are necessary in terms of a numerical determination on the way to a tender. So, the result... for example, I asked: at Mersin, we guaranteed the tender. What did we give you? Surveillance guaranteed 19 million views a year. A total of 16 million views were made in the first four months. So because of that, there's no extra money for the patient, or there's no such thing as an app like that.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0072par0454	What is the population of Mersin? Twenty times the population, 30 times the population.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0455	There's one thing that's been brought up too much, sir, given to the allies, etcetera, etcetera. That's a nonsensical claim. The serious claim is that, along with the evidence and documents, the republic's prosecutors are waiting for you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0073par0456	That's not a crime.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0457	There's no reason to think that they're being dragged around here, and they're not serious. There's another very simple illusion, and everyone here actually knows very well, and all the speakers say: If you'd actually made this tender yourself, you'd have paid for it in about this long. That's how long you've paid, and you've done the rest on your side.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0073par0459	There's no contract!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0460	Congressman, I'll teach you that too.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0073par0461	What contract? It's an offer...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0462	Listen, I'll teach you this: the situation is this: Now, sir, for once, you have to pay one item in twenty-five years, you have to pay in advance. There's a concept called financier cost, isn't there? Go and see, with the cash in advance, calculate the financial cost of the money that will be paid in twenty-five years. Two, we're not buying a simple construction here. We're buying a hospital that's been compromised, equipped with medical supplies and all kinds of needs, so it's a disorganized hospital. There's a very important expense, and don't miss it. For twenty-five years, this hospital will be in constant regeneration, so the aging, worn-out ones will be renewed again, so that this hospital will be renovated about two more times. So where do you put your staff money, your business expenses, these? Well, you'll have to put these in. Now, calculate them together and look.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0074par0465	Instead of buying a plane to the palace, open a public hospital.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0466	Look, in terms of urbanism, you're complaining about being away, while you're complaining about the hospital in Ankara. You know Ankara, we do it in Bilkent, we do it in Etlik. For God's sake, where are we gonna do it? What's it gonna be? So everyone's gonna have a hospital in their neighborhood? Is that the kind of health he has? But we're building a community health center, an advanced family practice in everyone's neighborhood right now. I'll pass that on as information. There will also be arrangements for transportation by the municipality, with different arrangements. My dear brother, Erkan, who is speaking here, has not received much accurate information. Sir, the hospital that was left will be given to the contractor. There's no such thing. Sir, there will be services here at the hospital. Now, three hospitals have been opened, for God's sake, go and ask them, what do they get paid for there, different from the normal state hospital? Sir, the hospital in Mersin is so big, it's going from place to place every 20 minutes; how do you get there and get there in 20 minutes when you need gauze in the O.R.? Yeah, can that happen? The O.R. has its own supply store, it has its own spending space.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0075par0469	You're doing polemics, polemics!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0470	There, that big hospital, the big drug warehouses are just a warehouse there at this point. Apparently, Republican People's Party MPs are dizzy inside city hospitals. They didn't make it to the opening anyway, they couldn't share that joy with us.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0075par0472	Don't be so polemic.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0473	Now, behold, here you speak separately, separately in your land, and separately in Kütahiah. Here we are against the city hospital. You say, "Why wasn't it built in Kütahya?" Your rulers there come to us every day.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0076par0474	Yeah, we're not against it. We're against the cost, we're against the cost!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0475	I'm inviting you to come to the basic horse of Kütahya City Hospital, would you be willing to send your local administrators? Come on, let's take a look over there together. Look, Isparta didn't pay the return fund, they didn't pay the watch. Pick up the phone, whichever one of your doctor friends has an unpaid return fund and a watch fee, ask them to answer that, not me, but our doctors there. Sir, there's no money left for doctors. Sir, there is no such thing. Here performance and return funds are paid separately. If there is a lack of overall money from the SGK, if necessary, they are reinforced there along with the state budget. Sir, the bed capacity isn't increasing. It's going to be the same. There are two basic missions in city hospitals, one: the fact that our existing hospitals are particularly unsustainable for earthquakes, that they are transformed into qualified, sound, quality buildings because they are not physically what we want them to be. Second: We want to give our citizens a qualified room; we want to get our patients out of the wards; we want to give them a qualified room in each room with their daily needs, baths, toilets, and other elements. This movement is called a qualified transformation movement.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0077par0479	They won't understand. They won't understand.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0069par0480	In 2023, we will be able to reach 32 beds per 10,000. To see what kind of results we're getting around here, first visit these hospitals -- not just physically -- in their rooms, ask the patients. I'm saying the prayers and the satisfaction we've received from those patients, please, say them together, around here. At this point, we will continue to carry out our human-focused policies in health policy with the patient. This man is worthy of the best services in the world. We have mobilized to produce the best standard services in the world. I want you to share in what's good at this point, and what's good at this point. We reject your motion at this point. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0078par0485	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0079par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0078par0487	Mr. Aydın, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0079par0488	According to the Civil Charter 69...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0078par0489	I can't hear you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0079par0490	According to the Civil Charter 69, a thousand of the mud was taunted by allegations of reckless and defamation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0078par0491	(sing) Unserious (sing)
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0079par0492	▪ Unsubstantiated claims have been taunted by saying that a thousand of mud and slander is a coin.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0078par0493	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0079par0497	Now, you said, "Mr. Orator, it's a coin," but to me, it's a sum of what you're saying. Now, you're saying there's 16 million views in Mersin. Now, what population is Mersin? 1.8 million. So 1,800,000 people have been here ten times since they opened up? So just because it's full, we're going to assume the procedure is correct? You have to fix it for once. So much imaging, so much MRI, so much performance in the system, to defend a procedure done only because of pressure on doctors, I don't think it's appropriate for a doctor like you, because we're saying that the public is hurting here, hospitals can be beautiful, you can make gold coating there, but those resources are coming out of all of our pockets. You said it's a financier cost. E, we're saying, you're making 1,200-bed hospital 193 trillions, 25 years of rent, 2 quadrillion 250 billion. So if you do it yourself, you're already giving it to someone with the money of this nation, this unfinished orphan, the way you rent it when you're building 10 1,200-bed hospitals. We said, you said, "No such thing. Look - I don't want to name this place - it's given to the same people, to the same companies, from somewhere. I'm not saying, look, there's the same firm that builds the palace, you go, there's the same company that builds the city hospital. What will the public think then? So when we say we don't exist, it disappears? You have to take good care of these. We, the public, with its own resources, would like to do what it's been doing for years. When we get someone to do it under the name of privatisation of health, we'll all see that the work is wrong, that it's going to be too late. I'd like to answer that from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0080par0502	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0081par0509	Request roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit01spe0080par0510	There's got to be a roll call. Mr. Engin, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Aksyıldıl, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Üstümdağ, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Cleansel, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Bakır. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0012	Mr. President, why are you interrupting? Mayor, why are you interrupting?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0013	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0014	Let's see what's not coming, why'd you stop checking?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0015	Mr. Elitaş, I've seen enough meetings here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0016	Mr. President, but we need to know who came, who didn't.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0017	What do you mean? That's my...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0018	Is that all right, sir?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0019	What do you mean, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0020	Mr. President, you can't just...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0021	No, sir, as soon as I see that there's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0022	Mr. President, we'll call our absent friends.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0023	Sir, that's not my concern.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0024	Mr. President, you wait until the last moment.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0025	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0026	Act according to the Civil Code, Mr. President, don't enjoy it! You are taking pleasure in your duty, and you will act according to the Civil Code!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0027	Mr. Elitaş, let's talk about the Civil Code. What article of the Civil Code does this apply to?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0028	You wait until the end of roll call, Mr. President, you don't open the investigation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0029	No...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0030	You're not opening the investigation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0031	No, sir, I've done this over and over again from here, and so have our fellow congressmen.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0032	Mr. President, you wait until the end, you wait until the end.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0033	You may also ask me, Mr. Speaker Hamzacebi, Mr. Akif, Akif - whatever - to wait until the end of the time and we will find out who is here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0034	I didn't feel the need to be warned because that's what we always do.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0035	If you ask me to, of course, I'll take these requests into consideration.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0036	I didn't feel the need to be warned.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0037	So far, you've made these requests from time to time.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0038	We did, it's true.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0039	When you did, I did what you asked.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0040	I'm sure it's early. I've heard what we call it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0041	No, sir... Why did you say that earlier? So, wait a second, cut it out early. Why did you say that?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0042	Because we told them not to exploit it. Mr. President, if anyone wants a five-minute roll call...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0044	Well, now that you've asked for an early cut...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0045	Look, there's a copy of the Civil Charter and it's not required to check every five minutes, but we did it so they wouldn't take advantage of it every five minutes.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0046	Mr. Elitaş, you say you're asking for an early cut.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0047	But you didn't, but you didn't.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0048	So, let's not get into the habit of being vice president of the ruling party, which doesn't give you the right to run the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0050	I don't run the General Assembly, you need a good director.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0051	Please... we'll end it when you ask, and if you don't, we'll wait for the end of the deadline!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0052	Mr. President, I invite you to behave.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0053	I'm just playing by the rules.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0054	We want you to keep the roll call going all the way.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0080par0055	I don't have to, I'll stop the roll call as soon as I see it. When you ask for a break from the Deputy Speaker, he'll stop, and if you don't ask him, he'll continue!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0056	The Speaker can't be playful!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0083par0057	You're wrong, you're wrong.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0082par0058	He can't be happy! It's not a place of pleasure.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0084par0059	You're being fun!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0085par0060	Yeah, you're just being fun, giving yourself away with your explanation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0086par0061	You're doing it wrong, it's not right. Come on, don't do this to Mr. Akif.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0087par0062	How could you not, brother? You yell at anyone who comes, why don't I? You're yelling at anyone, you're just standing up, and that's not the way it's supposed to be!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0086par0063	Who am I yelling at?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0088par0064	You're the one who's yelling at anyone!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0086par0065	I'll tell you something, you know that Mr. Akif is right, and I know that. Sometimes you say cut, sometimes you say do, it all fits.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0089par0066	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Saturday 17/6/2017 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. The parliamentary research motion, which has been submitted to the Turkish Parliament on 21/4/2017 to investigate the causes of increased violence in sports, in particular in football, has been submitted by Kopeeli MP Tahsin Tarhan and his friends (1118 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of their talks on Saturday (17/6/2017). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Tahsin Tarhan is the MP of Kopeeli. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0090par0079	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on a motion to investigate violence in sports and take measures. I salute the General Assembly. Greetings to Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our leader, who walked from Ankara to Istanbul for justice in Turkey, and to all who walked for justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, there was a match in basketball yesterday for the Turkish championship, and you've all seen it. It wasn't just any game, really. A Turkish team and another major club, Beşiktaş, who are European champions, are going to win the championship, and the first match is 3-0, and Fenerbahce will win the second match. That game is played without fans. Imagine, even Europe is curious about the game of a championship basketball team in Europe, and we play that game without an audience, and after the game, the president of the Basketball Federation gives the cup with a big smile and a trophy ceremony. My dear lawmakers, this image of Turkey is not right. Two of our big clubs are playing. You can punish him, but at least for that game, he could be on neutral ground, so at least he had to be played with an audience. I'm here to ask the president of the Basketball Federation to resign. I congratulate Fenerbahçe on his championship, and wish Beşiktas well. In recent years, valuable lawmakers have become increasingly violent in sports in Turkey, and violence is being seen in every major sport. Most of the time, the sport where we witness violent images is football. In football games, followed by mass solidarity and a sense of co-operation, violence has increased, especially recently, and violence is followed by violence, and violence appears in almost every platform in a different way. We should all look into this together. PASSOLIG was developed to prevent violence. What was the result? The stadiums, the bleachers are empty, the violence is getting worse. Not only is violence increasing, but all the medals won internationally in your power have been withdrawn due to doping. We're recommending research on this, and you're refusing. Is it just athletes and criminals, dear friends? The managers and trainers have nothing to do with it? We're a football country. When he goes to work in the morning, when he opens his job, he assesses yesterday's football matches, other sports matches. When workers go to the factory, they evaluate the games from the weekend the day before. No matter what party all our citizens are from, they come together to evaluate weekend sports. Dear friends, there's violence at the stadium, violence on the bus, violence on the plane. We're proud of him, and we're delighted to watch him in Barcelona, and a national football player attacks a bigger journalist on a plane, and then the Director of the National Team takes him out, and this athlete comes out and says, "I quit the national team." Dear friends, when it's called the national team, no matter which team everyone supports, their national sense would be one heart, one wrist. You see the situation we're in. If you want to play football in China, play football in Spain, I quit the national team. The coach says I cut him out. The President of the Football Federation is making a different statement. Think about it, you're all seeing where Turkish football is coming from. Where athletes wear national uniforms for money, for bonuses, you can't prevent violence in sports. You can't prevent violence in sports with executives who are much bigger than the achievements they make. Violence in sports is growing like an avalanche every day. The Fenerbahçe team bus was shot when Rize returned, the prosecution didn't even file the indictment. Burssopian football players were stopped on the bridge and hit in a team bus. The game stopped for 30 minutes because of foreign substances thrown in the field during the Eyetepe-Eskişehir game. All of this shows that PASSOLIG didn't do any good. You've tagged people, you've cleared the bleachers. The Turkish Football Federation is run like a conglomerate, and it sees fines as income. It's obvious that sports aren't managed. The Minister of Sports must take responsibility. That's where we come in. The Presidents of the Football Federation and the Basketball Federation must resign immediately. Dear lawmakers, it's useless to give harsh sentences to clubs. The revenues from these heavy fines must be used to reduce violence. Unfortunately, that's not the way these coins are used in Turkey. With the joint work of the Ministry of Interior, the State Ministry for Sports and the Turkish Football Federation, we must organise this situation. Dear lawmakers, we need to change the education system as soon as possible and train athletes in sports from primary school. When we find esteemed lawmakers, ego-free trainers, athletes who sweat for the national team, presidents who don't run the federations like holdings, as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, we can raise the athlete's smart, nimble and moralist. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0091par0095	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Look, it's Rize MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0099	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. I salute your high council. Regarding this proposal, two parliamentary research commissions were established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, with the joint proposals of all groups in the 22nd and 23rd term. The first is the Parliamentary Research Commission, established on the 22nd Legislature on 4/1/2005 and established by Ankara MP Haluk İpek. The second is the Parliamentary Research Commission, which was established again on 24/11/10 with the joint proposals of all parties during the 23rd Legislature, with its presidency established on 24/11/2010 by İstanbul MP Nazim Ekren. In addition, in the 24th term, a Parliamentary Research Commission was established to investigate the drug problem in Turkish sports. Three parliamentary research commissions have been set up so far in connection with all the problems in sports. Again, on 31/3/2011, our Parliament adopted the Law on Violence and Disorganisation in Sports No. 6222. Again, a motion issued by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) on 26 April 2016 was discussed and rejected during the 26th period, demanding a violent investigation of Parliament in the sport. Today, we are discussing the proposal for the opening of Parliamental research by Articles 98 of the Constitution and Interior Law, in order to investigate the causes of increased violence in sports, especially in football, and to determine the measures to eliminate those reasons. We talked last year at the end of the season, the season ended, and we're talking about it again. Violence and hooliganism in football are not just a problem that we face in our country; it is a common problem throughout the world. The peak of this event is the Juventus-Liverpool game on 29 May 1985, reminding us of the Heysel disaster when we all checked our memories. Of course, in the process, our ministries did some work, after the law came out. Last year, on 3 May 2016, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Court of Education were co-operated and evaluated for the 2015-2016 season. An electronic ticket app has made it easier to identify people coming to the stadium and making a scene. There are shortcomings, both ministries are working to correct them. The managers of our sports clubs should be more careful with their explanations, avoiding provocative explanations. Our sports media should do its part, make statements in its comments that sports should be fair play, and evaluate them. As to hooligans who have caused violence in sports, our security forces have taken action under Act 6222. According to Interior Ministry data, 12.168 people were imposed in the 2015-2016 season, with a security measure for 3,218 people. Our police department has established sports law enforcement offices. Sports prosecutors have been assigned and processed for matters of violence in sports. We need to give the whole community an active fight against hooligans and fanatics who want to increase violence in sports, help our law enforcement forces. The development of the physical structures of the stadiums is crucial to preventing violence. During the time of our governments, new stadiums have been given to our cities above international standards, and continue to be acquired; Istanbul, Bursa, Sivas, Konya, Eskişehir, Tripoli, and the last three stadiums in İzmir, which were tendered a week ago. Special approaches to security issues in sports areas have been developed: camera systems, special training of security personnel, setting the routes of fans. Security boards have been established, and security boards are meeting before each competition to assess the necessary measures. Studies on the education of football fans in football clubs are being conducted by the Football Federation. What's being done? In the club, the executive agencies in charge of the fans are established, and this manager is in contact with the fans. Communicating with the fans' associations is an emphasis on fan education. It's very important to promote sports culture among our young people. Sports is a common language that excites the masses. We should view sports as entertainment and lifestyle. In April 2016, again, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of National Education predicted that students in schools would be licensed in at least one sport, while protocol was signed at the point of continuing infrastructure investments in sports, and sports culture and education were planned to be given to our young people starting at the elementary school. During our governments, major investments were made in Turkish sports -- stadiums, gyms, swimming pools -- international giant organizations, world and European championships were organised in international standards. While we were working out, we were playing in the dirt fields, mud fields, and now all the stats are grass, and the neighborhood and neighborhood areas are carpeting. When it was raining from the roof, the water was dripping on the wrestling mats. I was President of the Wrestling Federation. I was a wrestling director at the time. Water was dripping from the roofs to the cushions, and now there's sport in modern facilities. Turkish sports has made great breakthroughs as infrastructure at this point.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0093par0115	Osman, you've ruined horse sport, horse sport.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0116	No matter what anyone says, Turkish wrestling, as a former Federation President, has been world champion in my day, let me put it in a note.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0094par0117	Any doping, doping?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0118	Well, there's support for amateur sports clubs, support for sports Toto channel, support for our amateur sports clubs through the Turkish Football Federation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0094par0119	Let's shut down Toto, it's gambling, it's a sin! Let's close the sports Toto. People are crying blood, they can't bring home bread.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0120	The facilities provided by the Turkish Football Federation are obvious. Now, of course, we're against all kinds of violence in sports; we're against violence in sports; we're against violence in sports; we're against violence in managers; we're against violence in referees. He did his part in the House, set up three commissions, and issued Act 6222 as a result of these commissions. The law continues to apply, and every day, the Ministry of Interior and Sports and the Ministry of Sports evaluate them, present the results, and take the necessary measures. Of course, Turkish sports is fortunate: our prime minister and current President come from within the sport, he knows the problems of Turkish sports very well, and he is a former athlete. The country that invests in Turkish sports... is Turkey, which invests in the most sports in the world. Of course, we never approve of this violence in the gym, and we must work together to prevent it. In previous motions, all party groups have jointly submitted and research commissions have been set up, and three research commissions have been set up...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0095par0124	Let's do it again.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0125	...and there's a law on it. Now what we need to do is follow these applications. Most importantly, the pursuit and renovation of applications. In this regard, our Ministry of Youth and Sports, our Ministry of Interior, and our Ministry of Justice work every year. On 3 May 2016, three ministries co-worked; the Football Federation studied, held seminars, held these seminars in our sports clubs. Studies are being done on the training of the fans.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0095par0126	I think the autonomy of the Football Federation is controversial.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0127	Of course, there's a great deal going on in the media here. The media, sports media, in particular, should convey its views on the reduction of violence in sports and its work in this direction. We need to think of sports as a culture. In this regard, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of National Education, we need to go with our young people to enjoy sports culture, Olympic spirit, the beauty of sports, the joy of sports, when we go to sports, when we go to sports, as an audience, with our family, with our family, with our children, and we need to enjoy it. Together, we need to take both judicial measures and social measures against groups of hooligans who are trying to bring violence to sports. We have to support the work at this point. I also say that Turkish sports is running towards new projects, new achievements, in very important steps. I wish all our athletes the best of luck in the competition. I salute Turkish sports and everyone who worked on Turkish sports. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0096par0131	Osman, why are the bleachers empty?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0092par0132	Empty? Occupied...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0096par0133	It's empty.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0097par0134	Thank you, Mr. Bak. In favour of the proposal, Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP will speak. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0098par0138	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss this motion. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, we've received new, fresh news: we're in the throes of losing an expert corporal brother in the fight against terrorism in the district of Şenkaya, Erzurum Province, where I'm a MP. May God have mercy on this brother. My condolences to his grieving family and to the great Turkish nation. Again, the colorful face of Turkish politics is the anniversary of the death of Süleyman Demirel. I also cherish him on this blessed moon. And thank you for what you've done. Again, we have learned that our district MP Uður Bey has also lost his mother. I'd like to express my condolences to my brother. Respected lawmakers, scientists, they make a lot of definitions based on what they call a human being, such as a political entity, and there are those who say it's an economic entity, but when we apply it to a very general basis, it's a human soul and body. So on the one hand, it's a biological and physical property, but on the other hand, it's a psychological, internal, spiritual entity. They also say that if this union of soul and body is achieved, if the balance between the two is very stable, then we can talk about a healthy individual. Now, really, I'm one of those who believe that, in action, sports, especially the soul and the body, is an important tool for both of them to reach a healthy structure.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0099par0144	Good luck to Erzurumspor. You beat us.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0098par0145	So we're not talking about a concept that's going to be thrown aside by saying "sport. " Now, sports, such as peace and happiness, contribute positively to the inner, spiritual side of man. So this natural activity, which everyone has to do by making it an amateur part of their life, also involves a number of groups who have taken a profession and have done professional work for themselves. So look, it's just a word, and we say, let's say, let's say it's smart, it's quick, it's moral. Now, your intelligence and agility... what's really the first thing that's targeted in sports? It's success. What's expected here? To follow the rules and achieve a certain level of success in a short time, but that shouldn't be the goal. It's also what we look for in everything, and as we make it a rule, as we do in politics, science, technology, trade, one of the most important elements in sports is morality. So we call it sports ethics, we call it political ethics, we call it science ethics, we call it trade ethics, but for some reason, when we look at these recent acts of violence, it's the ethical issue that we need to focus on the most. If he's our priority, I'll give him some concrete examples, some examples of how long-term individuals are trying to work out by ethical rules. Success should not be a goal that must be achieved at all costs. I think it's important not to ignore what's called a sporting concept, or what's called a "gentlemanship." We don't think it's an idle word for him, but it's also supposed to be moral. Now, look, you have to give them a couple of concrete examples. Recently, the 4th Islamic Solidarity Games were held in Baku. Two of our children, two of our athletes, competed together in the 100m race, one named Mizgin Ay, the other named Nimet Blackbird. Now, they focused on the same success, they both wanted to be first; one of them got to the top of the line very close, and one didn't. After the contest ended, Mizgin daughter of our two Turkish children sat and cried, and I went head-to-head, but I lost, and Sister Nimet won. But when Nimet saw her crying, something was said at the table where she was crying, there was protests, and as a result of the objections, when she heard that Mizgin was the winner, she turned happy and said to Mizgin. It's very good that you've won. He says later: "It's something I can't forget in my life; Sister Nimet was not so cheerful when she was first; when she found out that I had won from the table and saw her joy running to me. I think we should talk about Nimet Karakuş, not Arda Turan. (MHP and AK PARTY) So that's really the kind of behavior, that kind of sportsmanship... that's smart, that's quick, that's not enough. We need these things, or with the day-to-day successes, if you'll notice, what's behind all the successes that we've been able to focus on? It's a bust, isn't it? The drugs came out, the money came out, the stock came out, the negotiations came out. Negotiations of what? We're going to wear national uniforms, but if we do this, there's going to be a price like this. We really need the Mizgins, our Blessing Girls. Yes, the speaker before me described violence with examples. Many of us remember, those of us who are interested in football remember very well, we remember the disaster at Belgium's Heysel Stadium in 1985, don't we? We watched it live, the match against Liverpool and Juventus. God forbid, 39 people were crushed to death under the fallen wall. I've seen it in England. In Sheffield, about 90 or so people were crushed to death by the fire. So this happened in Lima, which unfortunately we didn't see, but maybe the older ones remember -- it happened in our country, it happened in the Sivas-Kayseri game. 43 of our brothers died in that game. Now, we need to learn a lesson from these. We exploit the moral dimension of sports too much, we throw away too much. Look, where does the violence start? Violence starts with a simple movement in the stadium, which reflects from the domino stone to the bench, not enough, it reflects on the VIP group, club managers, from there to the whole stadium, and it goes down the street as if it's not enough. And as if that wasn't enough, we're going to sit in front of the TV tonight, so let's forget about this trauma, let's forget about it today; no, in every channel, sports commentators are doing programs on the same trauma, as much as they can on the same violence. Believe me, look, we have a lot of anonymous heroes in the sports community. I think we should focus on these things, tell them. Yeah, you got to get rid of the violence. Violence only exists in sports? Not just in sports. Look, morality is very important. The other days in London, you know, in the Kensington section, they call it Grenfell, they have municipal homes for the poor poor, they call it the council house. For the poor, for the poor, for the poor, for the poor, if they can't afford it, they'll rent it, they'll give it to the poor. They sit there, in very difficult conditions. There was a fire there, 30 missing in official numbers. There are some who say it's over 100. I left my file there, it's in my file, I forgot to bring it. Now, believe me, look, press ethics are very problematic here. When we put morality aside in everything we do, violence itself climbs. I'm looking at the local press, just the fire and the dead. I saw a story on a Daily Telegraph. Believe me, just now I'm going to talk about a moral stance, like my brother Mizgin and my brother's going to go down in history. Now, in other news, there's natural news: there's been fire, so many people have been burned to death. Look, let me just try to explain.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0100par0153	Complete, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0098par0154	A Telegraph says that if the Muslims who fasted that night were not awake, those girls who were awake for sahhur did not choose to run out, they tried to wake up the nation by beating the doors with such violence. They said it was our Muslim girls who prevented the great loss of that night. He put the picture in. That's morality, that's morality. (Applause from MHP and AK PARTY) So it's true for sports, it's true for politics, it's true for the media, it's true for science. You do the world's greatest scientific work by committing suicide, but because it's suicide, it has no value. What I'm saying is that the right thing to do, like Saint Sancar, is to put forth a scientific study that's really a lot of work. Hopefully, we will support this motion as a Nationalist Movement Party against all forms of violence. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0101par0158	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Against the proposal, Salih Cora, Congressman of Tripoli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0102par0162	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the motion to investigate the prevention of violence in sports. I salute the General Assembly. It is clear that a Turkey with the 6th largest football economy of Europe today cannot increase the number of fans in sports without solving the terror of the bleachers, the violence, the fix and the incentives, as well as increasing their game revenues. When we increase the revenues of the bleachers, our clubs become stronger in Europe. So in sports, cheating, doping, violence, and terror are not only socially, but mainly economically, the cancer of football. We need to find a permanent solution to the problems of violence in sports in order to establish the foundation of industrial football, to produce a brand value in this sense. If Britain is a country with the world's largest football industry, it has achieved nine violent laws, renovation of status, customer identity, and with all its institutions, with its police, with its prosecutor, with its journalist, without compromise, primordial and decisive posture. We, the government, have passed two important laws in our country in 2005 and 2011 -- the Violence Act in Sports -- and we've implemented them. However, in the changing circumstances, a new arrangement is needed, especially when we look at what has happened in the last two games, considering the setbacks in practice. To do that, we need to prepare a detailed report and come up with a new action plan. With all of our institutions, with our press and public support behind us, we need to make it happen. Otherwise, the 2024 European Football Championship nomination process could be compromised, and we can't risk the slightest risk on this road. But as it has been done earlier on in this matter, together with all the political parties, we must co-ordinate a motion for research with a joint memorandum of understanding, and do so at a more comfortable time, not at a time when the same law has been spoken for five days. Thank you all.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0103par0168	Thank you, Mr Cora. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0104par0170	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0103par0171	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Saturday 17/6/2017 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's "The Bill of Laws and Proposals and the drafting of Laws 486 and 461, which are in the Commissions' section, are placed in the 2nd and 3rd places, and other tasks are determined according to this order. Turkey's Grand National Assembly continues its work on July 1, 2017, without taking a vacation, according to Article 5 of the Grand National Assembly. On Saturday (July 15th), it is 13 p.m. on Saturday (July 15th), for a private meeting at the General Assembly in order to determine the significance and significance of the Day of Democracy and the National Union. The meeting at 00, the talks at this meeting, the presidents of the political party group are promised ten minutes, and there are no other issues discussed in this merger, Until the meeting of Saturday (June 17th, 2017) was completed by the 464th Bill of Law until Saturday (now); Until the meeting of Sunday (June 18th, 2017) was completed by the 478th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Monday (June 19th 2017), until the meeting of the 365th Amendment, when the talks were completed; Until the meeting of Tuesday (June 20, 2017) was completed by the 367th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 21st 2017) was completed by the 370th Bill of the Law; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 22, 2017), until the meeting of the 373th Bill of Laws, the talks were completed; 28, 29 June 2017 Wednesdays and Thursdays, two days from July 4th 2017 to July 13, 2017, ten days from work. On Monday, 17 July 2017, except on weekdays. The meeting at 00, and the continuing work of the Law Bills and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions until the completion of the talks of Bill 375, It has been suggested that Law Bill 486 be considered the basic law according to Article 91, and that its sections be in the accompanying form. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0105par0197	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our group proposal, we propose that the international contract on the United Nations, number 461, be placed on the agenda at the top of the agenda, at the second place on the agenda of the Bill of Law on the Foundation of Turkish-Japanese Science and Technology University, 486. On July 1st, we leave the General Assembly's decision not to take a vacation but to continue their work. We propose a special agenda on July 15th, Democracy and the Day of the National Union, and a ten-minute commitment to the heads of political party groups. Also, the agenda continues until Thursday (June 22, 2017). Following the completion of the agenda's programmes, the two-day recess with the General Assembly on Wednesday (June 28-29th) and Thursday (June 29th), another ten-day recess from July 4th 2017 to July 13th, July 17th at 14th. I present to the General Assembly the meeting of the General Assembly, and I salute you all again, to discuss the bill and proposals on the agenda, as our group recommends.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0106par0203	Thank you, Mr. Can. Free Private Manisa MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0207	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We are faced with a group of proposals from a government that has no ability to govern the country, that has returned from its previous action every day, that, despite all warnings, his stubbornness has damaged the country, that has made opposition parties tired of being justified, that he himself will be wronged, that he will defend himself, that he will be deceived, that he will defend the decisions he has made, and that he will not tire of coming back from it, that he cannot run the House, that he has lost his ability to rule in the country, and that he has once again lost the House, that he has lost its ability to run again. Trust me, maybe tomorrow, maybe even closer than tomorrow, we'll get a new group proposal that tastes like this. From time to time, the ruling party's MPs hear internal criticism of how they run this parliament and group; from time to time, we also witness a friendly conversation in an airplane cabin, but of course the group will do the evaluation on it itself. We, the People's Party Group of Republican People's Party, the people who are working for this Parliament, who are looking for action from this Parliament, we ask the poor, the unemployed, the retired, the laborer, the farmer, the farmer, the farmer, the pensioner, the pensioner, the victim of internship, the victim of the KHK, to do a conscientious, zealous, religious work. And this work calendar is far from that, so we don't support it, but the problem is that a government that has lost its ability to govern has abandoned the most important rule of governance, the dialogue. We're dealing with a government official who's made the government official, who's been running the parliamentary bureaucracy like his own party consultant, who's been bringing this draft from the President of Laws and Decisions for three days, who's brought it, who's sent it there, who's shown it to another group, who's been known to them, who's a group counselor, who can't do it in his own group, who unfortunately has made an institution and a bureaucracy that we all have to serve. We can't, we can't, and you're not a civil servant, you're going to be an officer of our party. It's all wrong. (CHP clapping in rows) Who knows where they're getting paid from this government, but you can't sit down and prepare this together. You put Laws and Decisions in the party group, that's not gonna happen. So they can't be impartial, so what else happens when they see you, when you see us... when you make the call -- when you call -- when you don't get the voice -- but in terms of the internal but external bureaucratic parliament -- is that what you're a member of the party? What makes you ask, brother, what makes you ask that question? What if I'm from the CHP? What if I'm from the HDP? What if I'm from the PKK? Dear lawmakers, highly valued lawmakers; unfortunately, the state, the bureaucracy, not to adjust the ancient traditions of this state, but now you've corrupted its genetics, it's radioactive. It really upsets us that these approaches, which reward so many allies, who are so uncompromising, who don't serve so many non-compliances, who party so many states, who lead the party to the arrogance of stateization, but it's really going to take time to repair that damage, and we know that. But you have to see that the Speaker's leadership of the House is partisan. We've done a study on the questions proposals returned this semester, four times more than your own time, six times more than ten times that. Five verbal questions, 552 written questions, 1 general meeting, 8 parliamentary research motions, 2 parliamentary investigation motions and 9 laws were returned this semester to opposition parties. We haven't seen anything returned to the ruling party. The reasons for the return are unthinkable, but for example, one of the simplest: our congressman has offered law on four heads: let's investigate violence against women, violence against children. He says, "Let's look into research proposals, a parallel law proposal." You know what the reason for the refund is? ▪ Violence against women and children is steadily increasing during a stable period of power. It should not be forgotten that there has been a stable increase in a stable period of power here. The statement is contrary to the Civil Code, they have returned Mr. Aytug Atcı's law proposal, they have returned the parliamentary inquiry motion. Does he understand? We're doing politics here. If you brag about the stable power, the man will say: "This is also increasing steadily. If there's a irony here, it's about politics, and if there's an insult -- which happens from time to time -- we didn't go out and criticize one of them. If he exceeds the limits of criticism... but the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court say that the insult for the politician is severe criticism, severe criticism is at its limits. So you're gonna have a little bit of a stomach. If you're in power, you'll have to accept much more severe criticism. Guys, what's not accepted and returned is that there's a steady investigation of violence against women and children in a stable government. We're talking about this. Think about it. You put yourself in our shoes, think about it, see how experienced you are in Parliamentary law, and how important your word is to us, say something to this group, go out and tell them something.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0108par0214	You're losing a steady election, too.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0215	Second, foreign visits...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0108par0216	You're losing a stable election, so we're glad. You're losing a stable election.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0109par0217	We see how you do it. How we saw the referendum, everyone saw it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0218	When we go abroad to visit, there's a law of interest, valued lawmakers, who knows how to go...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0108par0219	We're pleased with you, you've had thirteen choices, you're losing steadily.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0109par0220	Make an honest choice. After that, you're talking about the election.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0221	Congressmans, if you give an effective speech on this bench, Osman will be disturbed.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0110par0222	Why are you so uncomfortable with this?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0223	Don't talk nonsense on this stand, Osman won't interrupt. Make a mistake on this stand, make a mistake, but on this stand...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0111par0224	No, we're a stable government, and you're losing a stable election!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0225	Shame on you. It's a shame. Don't count on it, Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0111par0226	You're losing a stable election.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0227	Don't expect this attitude, no. That won't get you back.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0111par0228	Don't bother! I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0229	Well...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0111par0230	You're losing a stable election.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0231	Another issue: The Law, dated March 28, 1990, states that the delegation that goes abroad is determined according to the proportion here. Thanks. Who's so many, they're so many. Political parties will be asked to attend the delegation, where they will be assigned. There's nothing normal yet. No Speaker has ever broken it. Mr. Hero is sending us an article: "You're going on an out-of-state trip, and it's fitting that this person from your party attend." Is that what's going to happen? Yeah, can we get you to do that? Would my congressman stoop to that? He'll manipulate from there. He's got his criteria. You wouldn't believe it. Maybe he's right, maybe he's right, and if you want to put the criteria together, you write the writing in accordance with the law, by the ethics of politics, by the sympathetic channels of politics, you say: "What if this friend is like this?" The last time I was writing, Engin Altay was in the way, and Ismail Kahraman was in the name of our group, if he knew so much. No, they do not make a big deal out of it, they make a small deal out of it. When that arrogance takes away his nose like this, he'll feel it, he'll pick his nose, and they'll rub it on the ground; pay attention to them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And finally, I'll tell you this: we've just talked about a Presidential Court decision; the CHP's Justice March on the day of which there was no CHP, they've asked us to play with the settings of roll call, while the CHP's not there, and when I'm trying to rush into business while there's no CHP, it's a false statement by misdirecting the bureaucrats you turned to the party's officer, from 316 MPs to 300. Everyone who isn't an executive goes to 275, everyone who isn't a minister goes to 275. Bureaucracy this time -- it's so afraid of you -- to make mistakes and come and make amends. Look at what they're doing instead of saying: look at what they're thinking: the first pages are the same: I gave you the example of my colleague's solidarity with you -- look. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0112par0236	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0107par0238	...the initials of the first page are the same, because you don't stay one if written on the second page, because it's the same as it was written on the second page; if so, it adjusts the opposition, it protects you a little bit, but at the heart of the matter, we say that Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, where we don't have members of the Presidential Court, if you rush to work, if you do it on the wrong day, the devil gets involved. From him, your intentions will first be pure, and your product will be delicious, as requested. Or you'll be humiliated like this, and tomorrow you'll pay for it all over the place. I remind you once again that the virtue of power is different from the virtue of power. I've seen what kind of conscientious MPs there are in the Justice and Development Party Group, how some of the AK PARTY's consciences have reacted to the disrespect of Mr. Hamzacebi, where we just sat. Let that be my hope. For God's sake, say something to this group government, this party leadership, or you're gonna end up in a bad way. My respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0113par0242	Thank you, Mr. Special. In favor of the proposal, Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0246	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We've been trying to negotiate with political parties here at various times, to negotiate, but let's be clear, sometimes we don't agree with other political parties, sometimes we agree, but the main opposition party, there are three groups of vice presidents, one of whom we agree, two of whom we don't agree.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0115par0248	Yeah, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0249	One promises, the other gives up.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0115par0250	That's right, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0251	So now we don't know who's gonna stand behind their claims and signatures.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0116par0252	Look at the progress, look at the progress.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0253	Any group of us should have talked to the vice president, you should have talked to him because he's on call. We're talking to the sentry, and next week the shift changed, so I'm sorry, that word is gone. So every word of the Republican People's Party's group's vice president is in the water. For example, last week -- there are arrests -- they said to pull the part about olives, and we'll finish it in one day, all of it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0117par0255	No such thing, no such thing.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0256	We've got the olive grove, we've got the mera. We asked him, "What is it?" His word is written in water, he's not authorized. First find out who's in charge. Is it you, Engin Altay or Levent Gök or Mr. Kilicdaroglu? (APPLAUSE) You're making a deal with us, and you're saying that in this law, if you talk to us tomorrow, we'll support you to the end. You're going after him to MYK, it's an extraordinary situation in MYK, and I'm sorry, we can't support him.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0118par0257	But your deputies aren't coming.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0258	Last semester, we came here with the group's vice presidents, we had a meeting inside.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0119par0259	Because justice is over.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0260	We made a law, and in that law we passed, our fellow lawmakers, even the deputy president of that group...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0120par0261	Your proxy isn't coming, it's closing.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0114par0262	I'll sign if I have to. But the president of that period said that our friends had put him to sleep. That group was forced to leave Turkey for fifteen days. Look, the good lawmakers, the word comes out; when it comes out, it's over. (EC PARTY) I say clearly: AK PARTY's five-group vice presidents agree with it, including the chairman of whatever he promises. But we don't know which group of vice presidents we're going to take seriously here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0121par0263	We keep our word and your deputy doesn't come, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0122par0264	You withdrew it the day you got it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0123par0265	There must be people who want to be presidents, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0124par0266	So we don't know whether to take Mr. Free Special seriously, Mr. Engin Altay, Mr. President, or none of them.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0125par0267	Your deputies aren't coming, your deputies!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0124par0268	It's a hell of a competition. Some are competing as vice presidents, some are making great efforts to become presidents.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0126par0269	You've issued three separate Court decisions in one day. How is that possible?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0124par0270	Don't reflect your competition for the party on that bench. Do not try to interfere with the work of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Let's compete inside your party, but don't put Turkey's Grand National Assembly's work into refusal, discrediting rhetoric.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0127par0271	Let's get your deputy here and get these laws out of the way.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0124par0272	Look, dear lawmakers, today's talk is that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't have a 151st amendment. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is under Article 138, but there is no Article 151. What does the 151st article say? There's 57, there's a roll call, but there's no 151. So, in 1970, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is making a decision, and in its decision, it says... what would lawmakers do without attendance and open voting? Turkey's Grand National Assembly has decided that lawmakers who did not make roll calls and open ballots that day will be ignored in that merger. The Turkish Grand National Assembly has the same impression. It's the 1973 Civil Code, and the verdict is 1970. Look, I'm reading the 151st article of the Civil Charter: The MP who is not found without an apology or without permission in the roll call or open ballots made on the General Assembly or commissions does not need to make a decision on this.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0127par0273	Why is he making up his mind?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0124par0274	The Council of Parliament is making such a decision to prevent the harshness of the wrong practices made so far by its decision. Parliament Speaker says in his decision: "If there is an MP in any of the polls and ballots, let's assume that there is a merger in that General Assembly." Now, in an event, there are twenty people here who want a poll in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the opposition party, the main opposition; there are twenty people here; there are 25 people here. 164 plus 20 is 184 in the first round, but it doesn't enter the second roll call. There are virtual lawmakers there. If you don't enter the second roll call, you'll be destroyed, brother. It's not the main opposition party's job to shut down Turkey's Grand National Assembly, no matter what happens here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0128par0275	It's a belly button. It's a belly. He's got a belly when he closes. He snaps his hand.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0127par0276	We don't shut it down.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0129par0277	Come to the council, work, don't let it close. If you don't come to the Clave studies, it's over.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0130par0278	The main opposition party's mission is to run the Turkish Grand National Assembly and explain people's issues from here, not to show off. It is the main opposition party's duty to explain the matter here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0127par0279	We had a meeting with 15 people.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0130par0280	For example, in your group proposal, you asked for a roll call on your previous group proposal. Why do you want it? In the second round of roll call, you wanted to close it, not have 184 in the Turkish Grand National Assembly; that's your goal.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0131par0281	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0127par0282	Come on, then! Come here, give me a majority.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0130par0283	You don't believe in your own group proposal, you want a roll call to close the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0132par0284	Our lawmakers are on the march for justice, where are your deputies?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0133par0285	You don't come to the council, you don't work, then you complain.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0130par0286	For God's sake, do you know what you're doing? Do you know what you're doing?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0132par0287	Our lawmakers are on the march for justice, where are your deputies, where are they?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0134par0288	Where are yours?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0132par0289	In the walk of justice.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0134par0290	Why didn't you walk on July 15th?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0132par0291	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0135par0292	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0293	Do you have any idea why you're asking for a roll call? If you're bringing a group proposal, you don't want to check in there to stand up for the group proposal, so let's talk about it like this. But you get up, you don't believe your own group proposal... because it's written at the last minute, contrary to the Internal Charter, which no one knows, but in accordance with the polite rules of courtesy... (Applause in the PARTI rows) at one-thirty, when the General Assembly opens, we know about our group proposal half an hour before it opens. We're talking about a recent proposal from the Council of Counsellor and a group proposal, a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which has not been published on the red agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has not been given the President's office.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0137par0294	Three parliamentary research commissions have been set up for the group proposal, sir, three parliamentary research commissions have been set up, and they don't know it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0295	Now, Mr. Look, that's not the point. Look, there's so much abuse, there's so much secularity that it's unclear what it is. Most of his friends don't know themselves. When the group proposal came, I promised this MP that I had to do it for that MP... Let's take into account the group's proposal by listening to the other political party groups... look, let's consider the group proposals of the Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, the National Movement Party, and let's set up a research commission with these group proposals. As a matter of fact, it did.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0138par0296	Is that why you're denying it all?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0297	As a matter of fact, we've set up a lot of research commissions.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0139par0298	How many?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0138par0299	Is that why you reject all our suggestions?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0300	For example, the National Party had a group proposal. Mr. President, this group proposal is a very good suggestion, if you'd like to take it. Let all political parties make a motion to investigate the matter and set up a commission. We did this.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0139par0301	One, one!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0140par0302	The soldiers are dying in Manisa. You even rejected him. The soldiers were poisoned again...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0303	But to stall the Turkish Grand National Assembly, to take the Turkish Grand National Assembly with unnecessary drudgery...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0139par0304	There were 9,000 motions, you accepted four of them, four of thousands of motions.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0305	...and until two o'clock at night, in order to make it work until morning, don't use this place to say hello to your choice at the time of the television program, to continue running for president. It's a shame, it's a sin, so don't do it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0141par0307	They're for you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0136par0308	Look, whatever this party went through, the group pulled from the vice president. (AK PARTY) Always the group's vice presidents are eager to take the president's seat. Mr. Kilicdaroglu was the deputy leader of the group. That's what he did because he was keen on that chair.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0142par0310	That's a shame, that's a shame!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0143par0311	That's a shame!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0144par0312	Oh, that's a shame, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0145par0313	A group of vice presidents were eager to take the seat, and he rebelled. He said, "I am a candidate." He left. Now, I don't know if there are any members of the group.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0146par0314	What a shame! It does not suit you, nor does it suit you. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0145par0315	Look, for the sake of the party, do not use them for your own purposes or for the sake of the party's order.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0147par0316	Mr. Elitaş, technically answer me, don't throw mud. Don't throw mud, technically answer.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0146par0317	That's who you are and that's who you are!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0148par0318	You're throwing mud, mud!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0146par0319	That's all you are, that's all you are!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0149par0320	If there's anyone to take, he's here, the others are somewhere else. Why are you offended? Why are you offended?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0150par0321	You answer the fraud, you answer the forged document. Answer the fraud. You're making a fake document.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0149par0322	Look, there are fake lawmakers sitting there, but when the MP comes in with the compass, he says fake.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0150par0323	You're making a fake document, answer that.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0151par0324	You're not answering the document!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0150par0325	Anyone who wants to is running for president of the Republican People's Party, not like you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0152par0326	There's 20 MPs over there who have just been misappropriated by the Deputy Speaker of Parliament... Look, to bypass the decision made by the presidential court, Congress stopped calling the deputy president, why? He's cut off 110 of your members to account for them.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0153par0328	Is there an honest ruler like him? Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0154par0329	Don't do that, don't do that!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0152par0330	Do you know why the council cut off the Vice President? You didn't enter 20 people. You didn't go in there, you were considered one because of our friends, you know?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0155par0332	Yeah, go, go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0152par0333	Thanks to 195 MPs over there, you've been counted as 133 Republican People's Party MPs.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0155par0334	At least 100 of your deputies aren't coming, where are they, where are your deputies? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0156par0335	It's your time, but you've got 100, you've got 20! You have 131 MPs, where is 110?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0157par0336	In the walk of justice.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0158par0337	Even though you're virtual, you're only here because of the AK PARTY MPs.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0159par0338	The one with the mouth talks as much as the one with the brain does.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0160par0339	Yeah, he'll talk, don't worry. Let's go!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0158par0340	Dear lawmakers, on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly today, I must say, we interrupt until July 15th after these laws are over. After July 15th, with the next bill and proposals, if he passes the Constitutional Commission, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0342	Finish your words, Mr. Elitaş, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0158par0343	After July 15th, we had a brother, Kemal Anadol, who used to discuss the bill and proposals and had been abused and made a chore in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If he's watching us now, he'll see how busy the Republican People's Party is. Look, after July 15th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has done this chore, we'll continue our work to change its entry into vacation again if it passes through the Commission. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0346	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0162par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0348	Just a moment, Mr. Special. Since Mr. Elitaş has stated that my application is wrong, I would like to make a statement using my right to personal defence under Article 64 of the Civil Code. Congressmans, members of the group of political parties, are my co-workers. How the parliamentary legislatures will conduct the merger is organised in Article 94, Article 64 of the Civil Code of the Constitution. Every group of political parties has the same position on me as the vice president. What binds me is the rules of Parliamentary law. But one more thing: before these rules, what I care about is civilized relationships, trust relationships, friendship, friendship relationships. So far, I've made an effort to make no mistake on this Court. One meeting demands a sufficient number... let's give an example of what just happened: the Republican People's Party has asked for a roll call. We took a break because we couldn't find a number. Ten minutes later, I did another roll call, and as soon as I saw the number 185 here -- just a minute past two minutes -- I said the meeting was enough, and I concluded the roll call. I've done a lot of this practice so far, and I'm assuming the other legislators did it, and I can't say for them. I've never had any objections from a political party group, and we have clerks here. But from time to time, the members of the EC PARTY group, or some friends from the group management, came to me and asked me not to cut in between -- I can cut in as soon as there's enough to meet, but -- Mr. President, don't interrupt, we'll find out who's in our group and who's not. I've followed this student to this day. If a group of vice presidents are asking me to do something, there's no reason why I shouldn't meet this request in accordance with the Civil Code. I didn't get a request like that today, so I warned him again, and if he comes back after that, I'll consider it again. When Mr. Elitas himself was objecting to me from where he was sitting, we asked you to stop checking from time to time. Look, his explanation confirms me. I could've waited, I didn't. Why didn't I wait? It's not that I didn't wait, but it's true that I did; let's get to the law -- we all know the concept of the economy -- so we don't waste time, we get to the law. Near 164, in the first vote around 163, the member entered here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0355	Were you involved, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0356	No, no. Look, I told my friends I'm in, I'm in. Don't worry, I'll follow the rules. When the parliamentary legislatures are being met, will the MPs of parliament be included or not be included? We discussed the issue, agreed, the MPs of parliament will be included. We said, "He is what I promised." There's a Mr. Cube on the right, and I said I'm in, and it didn't hold up. I'm on a ten-minute break. Why did I give you ten minutes? Because if 162 is 163, 164 is there, then the General Assembly is 184 in ten minutes. I could've given you 20 minutes, 15 minutes, but I'd like to get to the law as soon as possible. Since we're working the weekend, it's my job to run the General Assembly, not close the General Assembly. That's the case, Mr. Lawmakers, you have the credit, and I'm offering it to you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0358	Mr. President, may I ask you a question?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0359	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0360	After the decision made by the Council of Parliament on June 15th, did all lawmakers exist in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or did they exist?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0361	Mr. Elitaş, that decision has not yet been passed.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0362	Mr. President, I'm asking you a question: if that verdict were to be passed...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0363	Mr. Elitaş, just a moment...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0364	I'm asking you a question...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0365	I'm explaining it to you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0366	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0367	I declare that the decision has not yet been passed; it has not been announced to the groups; it has been read to the General Assembly; it has not been announced to the General Assembly in the General Assembly's presentations; therefore, it does not now state a verdict. So your assumption just now was that the Hamzabi, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, protected you by not finishing the roll call, thanks to us, saved you by not finishing it. There is no such thing, my friends.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0163par0368	I'm asking a question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0369	One second, Elitaş, let me finish, and I promise you, you'll talk again. There's no decision in effect right now. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0164par0374	Does this app of yours, cutting in between, determine that the current MPs are here, or does everyone just exist here?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0375	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0164par0376	What just happened?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0377	Wait a second. Look, I made my point in the first place, and I wouldn't want to go into that again, because I don't think there's a group of...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0164par0379	Mr. President, I'm asking you a clear question: once I'm done...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0380	Mr. Elitaş, wait a minute, I'll explain your impatientness.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0164par0381	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0382	I'll explain, you're impatient! I, for one, would prefer not to go into this discussion of yours, but since you asked, I will answer. In the beginning, I made a statement: There is sufficient number of parliamentary speakers in the form of observation. After they have called and opened the General Assembly, all MPs are in the General Assembly, whether they are in attendance or not; this is our practice so far. Won't this practice change? Depends. The General Assembly shall decide, the Civil Code shall be changed, it may change, but so far, if the Presidential Court is able to pass judgment, I don't know how it will be judged -- there are enough meetings so far. There are all MPs in all the General Assemblys that have been called.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0164par0384	I'm asking about the amount of time you've been doing it, so once you've cut it, it's back to observation, isn't it?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0385	No. I'm opening it at the beginning, when I cut it... the method of observation is at first, as you know, in Article 57 of the Civil Code, the method of observation can only be used at the beginning of the merger. It's not the observation I'm doing now, it's the number I see on the screen. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0165par0387	Sir, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0388	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0165par0389	In his speech, Mr. Elitaş has made a number of abuses against the Republican People's Party's group's representatives, the group's group's leaders.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0161par0390	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0165par0394	Mr. Elitaş, of course, it takes 20 minutes to answer everything you say, but let me say this: First of all, if we take a closed vote today, do you agree with what Mr. Elitas put forth regarding Akif Hamzacebi, or don't you agree? I swear, you'll be alone in the Justice and Development Party, and I'll tell you that God's servant will not come after you. (HPP) Because, all in all, acting Speaker of Parliament is a very important office that we all have to respect -- that we always overstep our bounds from time to time. Akif Hamzacebi is being fair to himself and to our group in the same way that he is doing this task, so that there is no doubt about it in our group, and do not give him any credit for it. And from the look of your own testimony, it turned out to be a Nasrettin Hodja joke. If the old rule is valid, he's already opened it with observation, everyone's present. If the new rule is valid, the ones that aren't already in any roll call will be ignored, in the first form, but if you enter one, it will be counted as the second one you've altered. You don't have a forward side. It's one of the greatest honors in the Republican People's Party to be a group vice president, if you look at who's done it in history. Happy if we can be worthy. If these authorities have elected presidents, we'll leave our neighborhood with elections on the way to these authorities, we'll get votes from the pre-election, we'll be elected to vote on the group's closed vote; our confidence is that we don't come out between the lips.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0166par0398	They don't become ministers and come back.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0165par0399	We don't need to get in someone's way, we just need a democratic election to do the job well. His presence, his seat, should not be expected to be understood by those in need of the Prime Minister, the President, the party founder. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0167par0402	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0168par0403	We know how he got elected, don't worry.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0169par0404	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0167par0405	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0169par0406	Mr. President, as Acting Speaker of Parliament, of course, the general opinion of the people here is that you are ruling with justice and justice. This does not mean that from time to time some issues will not be discussed or debated. You'll have to see the argument in that bet. It is not right to bring such an argument to a vote of some sort in the House, to imply an assessment of a purity of nerves. I've been promised that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0167par0408	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0170par0409	We didn't break the microphone, we didn't walk to the stand, we didn't take the sledgehammer and we didn't try to hit it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0171par0410	And I'll tell the report, Mr. Elitaş, that Akif Hamzacebi is being unfair and biased, as a courtesy...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0170par0411	No, we didn't break the microphone, we didn't break the podium, we didn't throw the bell...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0171par0412	And because I believe you're projecting the general opinion, I said: "If we take a vote, you'll be left with your own game."
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0170par0413	...we didn't throw it on the Deputy President, we just expressed our objection.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0171par0414	Otherwise, it's not really our place to do that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0172par0416	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0173par0417	We remember, and we know about the last semester.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0174par0418	Mr. Hamzacebi knows, we didn't break the microphone, to insult the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, it means that what you did was wrong. We didn't insult him. We're just reviewing...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0175par0419	Who did we insult?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0176par0420	Mr. Elitaş, of course you can, there's nothing more natural than that.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0174par0421	Look, last time you had friends who broke the Deputy Speaker's microphone. So we need to talk about this.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0176par0422	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. No one is immune to criticism, of course anyone can criticize. Members of parliament, against the proposal Mithat Sancar, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0177par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me begin by saying that I have just watched and listened to Mr. Elitas. Is it, indeed, a special method of ignoring debates in various stages of Parliament's history? I've seen him before. For example, doesn't he know that in the 1990s, the most important form of opposition in Parliament was to use the resources that the Civil Code against the majority of its opposition to the opposition to the fullest? Doesn't he know that the Party of Prosperity is the party that boasts the practice of opposition through the most powerful Civil Code in the history of Parliament? Does he not likely know that the AKP used the same method in the years before it was in power? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to remind you very briefly of some information. I'd also like to point out that this could be a lot of problems next semester, and that it could be a serious crisis from now on. Look, the absence and the roll call are in a certain frame. Mr. Elitaş has just read a verdict from 1971, but there are much newer practices, which have been made clear in Parliament, such as 1985. It opens in two ways: General Assembly, observation and roll call. Now that we have a congressional tradition that has planted these, we expect a sincere answer to the question of why you're going to reopen today, what you're trying to change. In the roll-call combinations, it considers being present at the beginning of the merger or at any time, our Parliamentary tradition, so if we're ready at the start of roll call, we're no longer absent. If we've come in any way to sign the compass in the upcoming sessions of that merger, we're not. In consultations, the reason for not being present in any session is not accepted. Each MP earns a right according to Parliamentary law in consultations. What right is that? It's his right to not disappear during the merger, nothing more. Mr. Elitaş, if you develop a rule that says, "This does not match the material truth," you can be sure that your group will lose the legislature for at least 80 percent of the time in this parliament today. If we make it this way, tomorrow another day, another majority will always swing like the sword of Damocles against the opposition party they want. This violates all the traditional principles of parliamentary law. What is essential in parliament is, of course, the act of legislation, the audit of political power, but also the protection of opposition against the majority and the protection of democratic politics in this way. That's one of the causes of parliamentary law. Now, that's how it's worked so far. Let me give you a dialogue from 1985. In 1985, Aydın MP Alexander Cenap Ege said: "Now, sir, you know, there is a question of roll call in Article 84 of the Constitution. Article 84 has a phrase called "five unifications." Now, there's no way that each of these polls here is going to be accepted as a roll call at the beginning of the merger. According to my understanding, the first roll call in the morning is the roll call, and the follow-up polls are the purity inspections. Now, until today, there's no discussion. If you try to prove with other footage, recordings that a congressman was not here when he was opened with observation, you'll create a very dangerous path. This is not a military barracks, this is not an elementary school, this is not a military school, politics is not just a parliament, it's a parliamentary mission, and it's not just a parliamentary position. Therefore, if you want to bring in the continuum, there's a large majority of them -- a reflection of the understanding of custody in schools, family, student dorms. You leave it to Parliament's own conscience, discretion, and understanding of working. There are many of them, and when they want a meeting, they get enough, and when they want a decision, they get enough. In this case, what could be the point of an understanding that has such a problem with roll call? The opposition can only be intended to discipline through non-responsibility. If you turn the call into blackmail, even the absence, into a blackmail, you're defunctioning the parliament we've told you over and over again. You'll have carried out the entire accusation. If you disable Parliament, you have no right to say, "Why do you go to the street when people go to the streets?" It is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the AKP and president of the AKP, who said that the street is the final guarantee of democracy. Aren't you allowed to have street rights and opposition? Is that an understanding? Yes, it's true, the most final guarantee against all these games, the majority games in Parliament, all other prohibitions, is that democracy's most final, most solid security is peaceful, democratic street movements, march, rally, assembly, speech. You may have learned this after July 15th, but in this country, all the opposition, all the democratic forces have known for years. I repeat: any peaceful, democratic street movement is a march, a gathering, what CHP is doing now is a march of justice, all the walks we've done before, the ultimate guarantee of democracy. And in order not to give you the opportunity to play red tape here, stick to the power of the street, the value you've given before. Because of July 15th alone, it's a heavy double standard to bless the street -- excuse me -- just because it works for you. Again, needless to say, these decisions... if that's the way you want to run Parliament, how do you propose that we come to Parliament and solve problems? They're all different. First of all, they realized that there's a big oversight, there's a danger -- it was done the day before, or yesterday -- and then they brought it to us in a different way. The signatures have changed, the initials have changed. Guys, this is really fraud. Why would you expect us to trust you in other areas if you did this in the House and in the name of the Presidential Court? Mr. President, I think we're running out of time...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0178par0438	Here you go. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0177par0439	On the other hand, Mr. Elitaş, you said that the opposition group's deputy leaders didn't honor their promises, that they didn't comply with their agreements. I've had those conversations with you all morning during my negotiations. There was a bag of laws before July 15th, with a few other substances related to the trustee, so we said, "Pull these, and we'll help you pass this law faster." You promised, you took it. Look, you've brought the issue of confiscation of the people's will, which is now the most severe wound in Turkey's democracy, five days later, under the decree of the Law. On that day's promise, we drew up our motions, and you said, "This bag will not be included in the law." Is that what you say? Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0178par0442	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0179par0444	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0178par0445	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two statements, which I will read separately and submit to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology has had a request for the Turkish Parliament to work during the holidays and periods of recession. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0180par0454	Mr. President, the documents haven't been distributed. It's being put to a vote.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0178par0455	Let's distribute it, I'll send it right over.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0181par0456	So let's take a break.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0182par0457	Let's take a break.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0183par0458	We couldn't read it, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0184par0459	Let's examine it, sir. Let's read it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0185par0460	I'll deal right away.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0186par0461	We can't negotiate, Mayor.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0185par0462	We don't usually distribute documents, so it's read here and it's presented to your knowledge, but if political party groups need it, of course we do.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0187par0465	Mr. President, if there's time to replicate, it's like this: They were distributed at the last minute. And given the Parliament practice of the last few days, it's not much to know what we're going to find when we're going to have a dissertation that we don't have. This is not about today's session unless there is something entirely relevant to how the ruling party manages the Assembly. I also want to point out that as the debate goes on, something is put into place as the most important criteria, and we've always agreed, and sometimes it's said that the person who comes with the chest goes with the chest, goes with the chest. I mean, the power has led the chosen to freedom of crime. With what they're trying to bring in today, I'd like to point out that we've seen nothing but an effort to frame lawmakers who came in the polls using the majority-power roll-up gun. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0188par0468	Thank you. Mr. Special.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0189par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0188par0470	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0189par0471	Mr. President, you've just started a process. You said you'd read these papers. I didn't get up because, as a courtesy, the procedure went on, because you took the vote, at the moment of the vote, after the vote, I was going to ask for a word about the taunting of Mr. Sancar Τ's speech, but I didn't want you to promise me that you would continue.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0188par0472	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0189par0473	If you've stopped processing, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0188par0474	No, I'm not taking a break, I'm not taking a break. I'm rereading the thesis just now: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology has had a request for the Turkish Parliament to work during the holidays and periods of recession. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm having the other thesis read. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The High-level seminar in Brussels, Belgium, on 18 June 2017, is held by the European Parliament's Democratic Support and Election Co-operation Group, with the participation of the delegation of the European Union candidates for the European Union, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Tunisia, Morocco, Myanmar, Peru, Nigeria and Tanzania, and the "Europe Union's Legislative Movement Initiative," which will be held under the accession of MPs from the European Parliament's Parliament, and the Council of State of State of Turkey's General Assembly, and the Council of State of State of Turkey. Uður Aydemir Manisa MP Public Economic Attempts Mehmet Habib Soluk Sivas MP Bayındıl, İmar, Transport and Yusef Whiteıt Khakat MP National Defence Commission I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Elistash, I believe you have a request for a statement from the taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0190par0506	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Look, just now, Mr. Sancar has strongly objected to my objections. I can't do this. I'm surprised to hear from Mr. Elitas. He looked at the 70s, and he looked at the 85s. He said one thing, and he said something important. He said, "If there's a combination of observation and roll call -- there's destruction; there's enough meeting in the General Assembly, there's enough in the electronic system -- any member of law gives the compass whenever it comes in. Is it true?" Right. Every time he comes in, he gives it to the cavat, or he sends it with his advisor. He's abroad, sending a compass here with his advisor, it's considered available.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0191par0508	Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0192par0509	You do it, it's for you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0193par0510	You're doing it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0511	But as he goes to the poll at the roll call, according to 57/2, he becomes a fraud when the MP with the compass gives his compass and comes out of here when he calls for a roll call. What in God's name is this?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0195par0512	Who called who a fake?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0513	He's been gone all morning, he's been traveling all over Turkey, he's abroad; the compass is coming, he's being counted. The congressman is here, out for two minutes, considered a fraud. You have to figure out the difference between that and that.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0196par0514	They'll give it to you before your people get here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0515	You'll bring a compass to be here and crown those who give it, they'll be here...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0197par0516	Who's doing it?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0198par0517	You're doing it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0518	...but there will be lawmakers there, you will ignore them, you will declare them a fraud. Sorry, not like this. The MPs who are here, the lawmakers who want to check, will have to face the consequences. Last time we had Elazığ MP, Mr. Suleiman, he was in a car accident, breaking his ribs as he rushed here to a required roll call. Why? That's how we're going to stop it. What was his last name, Mr. Süleyman?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0199par0521	There was her, there was the lady who fell.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0522	So, guys, look, if we're going to do roll call -- what our friends say is true -- it's going to be a one-time roll call, or if there's going to be roll call after that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. I'll say one sentence.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0200par0525	We're giving you two minutes for bullying, and we're not giving you any more, you know, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0194par0526	It's either roll call or roll call after that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit02spe0200par0529	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0200par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We continue our talks with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports, as well as the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission, and the European Commission's Commission for Development of Industry and Supporting Productions. The commission is in place. The government is in place. According to Article 91 of the Internal Charter of the Union, dated 15/6/2017, the 485 and 485 were held on behalf of its person in the third chapter of the Law Bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. Now, as the last speaker on his behalf, I give my word to Izmir MP Necip Tetovo. Here you go, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0201par0013	Thank you, Reverend President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council. I'm talking about the one who put it together. Does a speaker take a stand and close the session four times at the right time? I said thank you for that, and luckily, I expressed those words. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sir, I want to tell you about our preparations for the Bill of Law, which is now 485 rows today -- which is known in public as the production reform package -- to promote industry and support production -- and what we've prepared for the old one. I was sitting here yesterday, and I noticed that three of our friends from these groups, the opposition party groups, took their word. I wrote down here the common point of our three friends' promise: they all spoke before me about unemployment and employment, and all three of them had it in them. So, we've elaborated on the development of industry in Turkey, the development of production. I asked the commissioner, and we asked 723 industrialists: What's wrong with you? What troubles block you, what troubles prevent you from improving? • All prepared as a remedy, he came to the Commission -- I'm sorry -- there's almost no objection to the third chapter that I'm in charge of, which I'm telling you about. And thank you, my friends, for bringing these substances here in harmony, and I speak in peace. There is no objection to these 30 clauses between 41 and 64, and I speak freely. But how do we find a cure for this unemployment? Look, the other day, I went to the head of the RDC, and I went to the head of the RDC -- I want you to listen to this -- and the head of the RSR said that there are 7 million, 18,000 people studying in high school in Turkey, friends, 2 million, 555, who have a degree, 4 million, 70 thousand, a master's degree, 480 thousand, a doctorates, 911,000 students, 151 thousand. Let's get the teaching staff out, all of these kids, all of these students, they come in the day, they graduate from college. The number of students who graduated from universities in Turkey in 2013 is 693,000 in 2014, 733 in 2014, 801 in 2015, 802,000 in 2016, not counting the others. So, how do we get a job for them? Are we going to make them all olive traders or olives? We need to support industry to increase Turkey's production, exports. This is a bill designed to make amends for the old problems that support the industry. I used to be head of the Chamber of Commerce, we used to tell which minister, which congressman, which undersecretary, but we'd tell them what we were talking about, we'd listen. In Turkish art music, Sheriff Inside had a song in Hejaz's office, and it occurred to me that I wanted to sing the lyrics of that song here: I cried out for hope, I groaned at the villain/ Asuman wasn't at home, and I sat down and listened to it myself. We were talking about it, we were talking about it, it was 10 percent, but this time times changed. This time, the Industrial, Trade Commission, staplers, all of them, including the opposition guys. This time, we've taken the problems of all the industrialists, and we've put their solutions into these 79 articles. Believe me, there's nothing on the other side of this bill to make it easier, to increase production, to relieve the men's unemployment problems, which is what I'm saying, which is a 10-to-1 bill. Thank you, everyone, we did the right thing. And I thank the opposition, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0202par0021	Thank you, Mr. Shield. Mr. Shield, not only this period, but all the members of the commission, which was also mentioned in 22, 23, 24, 25, were good.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0201par0023	Yes, I thank them, too.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0203par0024	Mr. President, you didn't tell me when I quit a week ago.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0202par0025	Yeah. Now, the talks on this part of the bill are over. We're gonna do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. We're starting the questioning process. Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0204par0030	I'm asking the Minister: The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has announced a new global investment report. According to this report, investments in developing countries have been reduced by 14 per cent over a year, while global investments in a global year have declined by 2 per cent. In the same report, foreign direct investments in our country over the past year have dropped to 31 per cent in response to this limited recession in the world. According to developing countries today, our country can only attract 1.19 per cent of foreign investment; foreign investment, which is $17 billion in 2015, has now reduced to $12 billion. We need an adventurous foreign policy and to fix our relations with our neighbors. Fighting with the world, fighting with our neighbors, fighting with the European Union, we're certainly not getting anywhere. So...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0202par0032	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0205par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now discussing the law on increased employment in the industry. However, according to data released two days ago, unemployment is 11.6. Although it has grown by 5 per cent, it appears to be fully distributed loans, not based on production. Young unemployed are seen to have reached 25 per cent -- a university unemployment rate -- as well. Do you really have any work to do to bring this down? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0206par0036	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0207par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask the Minister about the production reform package, but there is no Minister, we have the Minister of National Education. I'm asking our Minister of National Education: Why is there a national education clause in this package, not brought by your Ministry; for this production, the beautiful package about increasing production has been converted into a bag? I'm curious about that.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0206par0039	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0208par0040	And since Mr. Secretary isn't here, Mr. Minister of National Education is also a valued lawyer, so I'd like to ask him a direct question, and I'd like his opinion. We have just come to understand that AKP President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan may call them to trial, take them, question the court for those who attend the march." he said. The goal of this march is to instruct the judiciary or to protest against such proceedings in the judiciary. I'd like to ask the Minister as a lawyer, is it a right for people to march in protest? Besides, does the President's attitude, his approach, fit the law?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0209par0043	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0210par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, there was a request by Erzurum Chamber of Commerce for the establishment of a foundation university, and he came to the YOK, and the delegation from the YAK went to Erzurum. Is it possible for this initiative to be legalized before the Turkish Grand National Assembly completes its work this semester? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0211par0047	Mr. Pir...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0212par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Minister Zeybekci made a statement on a television channel today and said: "Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu could have tried to get Mr. Berberoğlu's file back into the scope of immunity and this would have been responded to. Please make a statement about this.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0211par0050	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0213par0051	I'm asking the Minister of National Education: there are significant changes in education in production reform bill 485 that we're talking about today, especially with a lot of new changes in the CEC Law. Therefore, these changes to ensure university-industrial cooperation are good, but what is the reason why education has been suspended from science and technical matters in particular? What is the reason why children spend their time in many different areas, especially in recent days, being cut off from biology classes and reducing them? And what purpose is it that the imam-gap high schools are overexplored and to be served? Does this country need so many imam graduates? The tech guy, the professional guy...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0214par0054	I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0056	Thank you, Reverend President. Now, first of all, let me start with Mr. Irgil's question, Reverend President. Mr. Irgil, you see, is it normal to protest democratically in democratic societies? It is absolutely normal, in accordance with the law, within the framework of the law. Not everyone has to like everything, but they do things they don't like under the law. What was it that Mr. President said today? The Constitution is 138, so the Constitution has made a statement that everyone must act according to the spirit of the Constitution. Hence, did those involved commit crimes? Judges, prosecutors will judge him. But what does it say? Article 138 is the independence of the courts; they are independent in their duties; they judge according to their consciences, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the law. No body, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; they can't send orders; they can't give advice and advice. There's a case that's being discussed right now... because there's a phase one, a phase two, and the Supreme Court will break it down, which we don't know, which is why we don't know.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0216par0060	We march for justice, Mr. Secretary, we march for justice.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0061	There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, and no statement can be made. In its final paragraph, the administration and the executive body must comply with the court's decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot change the court's decisions by any means, and cannot delay the fulfillment of them. There is another fine word: the courts decide, but the best part of this court is the form of the nation's conscience. If the nation does not respond to its conscience, the court decrees -- there is also history -- remain on paper. If people really say this is in line with justice, then everyone must respect the law. So...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0217par0064	Mr. Secretary, are the courts independent right now?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0065	Yes, sir, yes, it is. Look, the Constitution says the independence of the courts.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0218par0066	We're talking about today's Turkey, Mr. Minister. We're talking about the country you turned from 2017 to the party state.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0067	Sir, don't... sir, it may be a problem, but look, it's in the Constitution, it binds everyone; the Constitution will act accordingly, and the law will act accordingly, and the administration will act appropriately, and I will say so. Thus, in democratic countries, everyone is free to use their democratic response. Another member of our parliament, having an education in biology, science and technique, is usually very open, so... even if you open something that the citizen doesn't want, you open it for nothing; you open the door, there's no student left in it. So I'll just say it first.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0219par0069	The Imam-hispanics are empty now.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0070	See, the proportion of vocational upper secondary schools is 44 per cent in Turkey, 61 per cent in Burma, 53 per cent in Istanbul, 36 per cent in Gaziantep. What's our target? Up to 60 percent by 2023. Therefore, the proportion of vocational high schools is 44%. What's the ratio of the imam-members? Fourteen percent. One 13-14 percent, one 44 percent, but never... what's our goal? We consider vocational education a matter of country. There's a change in courses... I'd like to inform your grand delegation about why it happened and what happened. The weekly school schedule, national and international developments in the field of education, has been revised in the context of the information, skills, values and attitudes that our students need to have, and it has been revised by action because it is necessary to consider mandatory education as a whole. In this context, it is possible to sort out the basic changes: In the weekly course schedule in the application, the history lesson, which is among the common classes in the 9th and 10th classes, is also included in the 11th classes as two course hours. As a whole of our history, the Turkish Republic of Turkey's history and Ataturkian class, which is among its 11th class common classes to ensure that it is taught in a timeless and unresolved time, has been taken into the 12th class. The philosophy lesson, which has an important function in improving the thinking skills of students, is also included in the 10th class, which is only among the 11th grade classes. Thus, a two - hour philosophy class in high school was introduced in four hours. In order to ensure that our growing students complete their psychomotor development in a healthy manner, P.E. and sports class 9, 10, 11 and 12. In order to contribute to the development of our students' inner potential, music and visual arts courses have been increased from 9, 10, 11 and 12 to two lecture hours in the classrooms. Again, in order to ensure that health and traffic culture can be dealt with from a holistic point of view as the ability to live, traffic and first - aid courses are combined with health and health courses as a lesson clock in the 9th grade under the name health and traffic culture. Again, another arrangement of biology, which is a three - hour course in the nine, 10, 11 and 12th classes you ask about, is arranged as two in the 9th and 10th classes, four in the 11th and 12th classes. Thus, the biology lesson, which is 12 hours in the application chart, is preserved as 12 hours. In order to ensure the effective use of information and communication tools, computer science has been taught as a common lesson in science and social sciences and pre-preparation schools in Anatolian upper secondary schools. Finally, in order to improve our students' interest in science, math history and practices and science studies have been taken between courses and courses. We are absolutely assertive that there may be shortcomings in education, but we are much better than the past. The national income of the country shows this, the values of the country that are coming now, and where we're going...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0220par0079	Our students are ranked last in all international rankings.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0080	There's no such thing. Now, if you look, you're in line with France, France spends $15,000 per student, you spend $3,000. If you're getting the same result as someone who spends $15,000 on $3,000, it's the quality of education.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0220par0081	In PISA...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0082	PISA, good. In PISA, Vietnam is in front of America. If you take this as a single measure, then you have to say that the educational system in Vietnam is far ahead of the United States, which is not true. Why did this happen? The PISA was not created with the right representation. I'll tell you another note in PISA: Japan received 530, average value in PISA. Our students from Elbia Science High scored 550 points.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0220par0083	Here you are, always showing examples of students in science schools. They have a science high school, so you can imitate them.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0084	The student of our Elbia Fen High School is much better than Japan, which is the world's first and second. Why is that? That's because there's a good education. There's another...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0220par0086	As the Minister of National Education, we have objectively established the deficiencies and problems in our educational system...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0087	Look, education is getting better, and we know what's missing. Raising the quality of education is our primary goal. Look, we don't just want to improve education in elementary school, middle school, high school; we also want to improve education in higher education. In order to increase in higher education, the production package was placed between the tasks of residency.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0220par0089	I wish you'd come to our Commission, express your views on the Commission. You didn't come to the RD reform package, you didn't come to this reform package, you didn't come to the Commission.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0215par0090	Again, the Quality Board was brought into this bill. It was organised under regulations, well, there was the Quality Board, but in order to fit in with the European Union -- it was asked by the European Union to have administrative and financial autonomy -- and therefore a budgetary Quality Board was created. Why? To make high school look good. Another, again, another change has been made in this package. What's that? So we brought in the Board of Counsellors. What's he gonna do? We don't want one of our universities to be like another, we want each of them to have a separate identity. So, the quotas and departments of these universities... so that everyone doesn't open the same department, everyone doesn't set up the quotas that they want; there'll be the Ministry of Health, there'll be the Ministry of Labor, there'll be the Ministry of Education, there'll be the Board of Higher Education, there'll be the industry, there'll be the industry, everybody'll be the industry; there'll be everybody get together, whatever departments they need, there'll be a quality in higher education. Well, you put it here, why didn't you put it in your section? We didn't have a law to bring to the General Assembly by the way, so we didn't add it to them; it was seen in the Council of Ministers that this was the nearest law to discuss. Therefore, if our General Assembly agrees and adopts the law, it will be the legal basis of residency in the Higher Education Council from the coming term, the Quality Council will have legal basis, and the Council of Counsellors will have legal basis. There's nothing wrong here. Another question is, Kazim Bey: do we get 1.9 per cent of international global investments? We say: Look, we didn't get 1 per cent when we arrived, what did we get? We were 0.07, which is 0.7 per thousand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, we're good from the past, but we also know that there's more distance we need to take. Our goal is to be hostile with no one, not to fight. Look, the first thing our Prime Minister said when he came into office: we'll increase friendships, reduce hostility. We're moving in this direction.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0221par0096	The enemy has multiplied, Mr. Secretary, the enemy has increased, and there is no diminishing.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0222par0097	Mr. Secretary, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0223par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0222par0099	Mr. Special...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0223par0100	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have a request for a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0222par0101	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0223par0104	Sir, the Minister reminds me of the 138th Amendment of the Constitution. I really think the government needs to remember this 138, so I see it as positive. But no body, authority, authority, and person can give orders or instructions to the courts, judges, in the use of judicial authority. Let me remind you of either two events. One of them: I will not let them go at the beginning of this MIT truck case. After the decision to evacuate Mr. Chairman of the Justice and Development Party, he said, "I don't know the Constitutional Court, I don't respect it, I don't obey it." It also revealed a fact during our time, and Mr. Bekir Bozdağ did not deny it. If you can deny it, we'll be happy to listen, but you won't. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ still hasn't denied that the main case of the coup was brought to Bekir Bozdağ, that he had been processed after he had read it. What do you say about these two things? We'd appreciate it if you'd answer.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0224par0107	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0225par0110	Mr. President, from time to time, the heads of all political parties or members voice criticism about the functioning of the justice mechanism, objecting to court decisions, saying they don't know them. There are examples of this in the past. May I remind you that Mr. President of the Republican People's Party also has these statements. So it's a good idea not to mix political evaluations here with what's going on legally. The 138th article is for all, of course everyone is obliged to support justice in an impartial way. He can do his reviews, but it's wrong to try to establish a direct or negative judgment on the courts by establishing a bond of affection once in a while. Therefore, it is everyone's duty to demonstrate the sensitivity to ensure that the courts work independently. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0226par0113	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are three motions on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to promote and promote the development and production of industry in the current 485 rows, we propose and propose that changes be made in certain Laws and Laws shall be changed under the terms of Article 41 of the Bill of the Law. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law Bill of 485, which is currently in session, the administration to adopt the title of.OSB in Article 41 of Article 41, requires that at least one member of the OSB be appointed in the assessment and reconciliation commissions under the Act 2942. If there is no assignment during the time to be recognised, the relevant administration will select all members of the commission from its own body. We offer and propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text. Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of Law Bill 485 be changed in the following way. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay The first joke of Article 41-4562 of Article 5 of the Law was added by the board of directors upon the decision made by the general council to come after the declaration of the delegation. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0227par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0226par0144	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0228par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your honorable committee. We have come to Article 41 of this bill, which includes about 100 articles, which aims to support industry and production, and we know that the industry's opinion of organised industrial areas has been taken in the drafting of this bill, as stated earlier by the Minister. I've considered this clause an arrangement as a result of this view. The 41st article of the article (2) organises the following: It envisions the removal of a representative from the management of organised industrial areas to the publicisation commission or to the negotiating commission for organised industrial areas in the name of organised industrial areas. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that we don't find this right and logical. Why? Before that, they were institutions that had the authority to nationalize organised industrial areas. The Constitutional Court also cancelled the arrangement. When we look at the reason for the cancellation, the representation of a member of the department that's nationalizing this matter in the spirit of the matter would be an objective, objective work of this commission, dear friends. Because the commission has to be objective and objective. Besides, you're going to do the nationalization... so, what's the cost of publicization? The price will come out of the organized industrial district. Therefore, there should be no representation. Besides, it won't contribute to industry or production. In the end, if it is decided to become publicized, the commission or the negotiating commission can easily perform this process objectively and objectively without the representative of the organised industrial region, but the presence of the representative of the organised industrial region may undermine the objective and objective work of this commission. Not necessarily. That is the basis of the Supreme Court's grounds for a mistrial. So I want to say that we don't think this is right. I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0229par0153	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law Bill of 485, which is currently in session, the administration to adopt the title of.OSB in Article 41 of Article 41, requires that at least one member of the OSB be appointed in the assessment and reconciliation commissions under the Act 2942. If there is no assignment during the time to be recognised, the relevant administration will select all members of the commission from its own body. We offer and propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0230par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0229par0163	I'm reading the reason: There are institutions in the law that will do the nationalization. The membership of these institutions by OSB administrations would violate the earlier Constitutional Court rulings. The Constitutional Court's decree 31/10/2013 (E: 2013/49) (K: 2013/125) was cancelled, or may be cancelled. According to this decision, the OSBs can get nationalization, but they can't. The government has appointed a member of the OSB administration to be appointed as a member of the OSB administration for the OSBs, and has appointed a member of the OSB administration as a member of the OSB administration, even indirectly or indirectly, to promote OSB administrations. This change is against the Constitutional Court's decision. It is also clear that such a transaction can only be done by public hands when assessed in the context of property rights. The joke must be removed from the draft text for the following reasons. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to promote and promote the development and production of industry in the current 485 rows, we propose and propose that changes be made in certain Laws and Laws shall be changed under the terms of Article 41 of the Bill of the Law. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0231par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0229par0175	Ali Akyıldız, Sivas MP, who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0232par0178	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in connection with the 485 rows of law that are being discussed, my valued citizens, the valuable employees of our press and Congress, watching us on the screen. I salute you all with love, respect, conversation. Mr. Secretary, of course, our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology would be here, so I'd like to introduce you anyway. Minister, the job health and safety service for workplaces in dangerous and very dangerous classrooms, which are in the first section (a) of Article 38 (a) of Business Health and Safety Law, dated June 20, 2012, and on July 1, 2017, have been postponed for three more years, changing the 86th article of this package law by changing its employment health and safety service for the dangerous and extremely dangerous class. According to NGO statistics, about 1,500 people die every year in business accidents in our country. In business accidents, we are Europe's first, the world's third, and unfortunately this number is increasing day by day. Continuous postponement of legislation and norms related to occupational health and safety causes employers not to take responsibility, but also a constant increase in job killings. However, notice that there are approximately 77,000 (C) classes, 16,000 (B), 18,000 (A) classes experts in our country, and in the event of delays, especially in the case of the less dangerous class (C) experts may also start to be laid off and new unemployed will join the unemployed army. Mr. Secretary, when the road is near, come and give up this arrangement and let us not sacrifice our lives, our children, our lives, to the new business killings. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers continue the march of justice initiated by our esteemed President, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu two days ago. I've just come from a walk, and I'm continuing our justice watch in the House. This march of justice has been a beacon of hope for all our citizens, as concerned and concerned about the future of our country as it was for the oppressed and the victims in our country. We march on the order of politics, or rather the judgment of one man, to be completely independent and neutral, not by the court, but by the nation's judgment. In our country, we seek justice that is lost because of the power that exists and the mentality that exists, and that's why we walk. People who have been wrongfully tried and punished are a wound to society. It touches people's conscience and destroys their happiness. Therefore, all possible things must be done in order to ensure justice in society, and everyone must be treated fairly. The most sacred value a nation can have is the justice system that it has. That's how people in that country protect and defend their rights. The treasure of the state is justice. When the great Indian leader and statesman Gandhi said, "Destroy the unfair regime with justice." Our prophet Muhammad, who has not punished the men of the state who have violated justice, has to collapse. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, since I'm running out of time, I'd like to complete my remaining time by reading a poem by Mr. Hussein Dilibal. ▪ Walking, my people, walking Again, I salute your high council with love, respect, and conversation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0233par0202	Thank you, Mr. White Star. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The governor is excluded from the application of a replacement member if he is on the committee. We propose and propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text. Mahmut Toğrul Garo Paylan Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The state is excluded from the application of a replacement member if it is included in the second joke of Article 42 of the Law Charter to change certain Law and Law Decisions with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions of Industrial Industry, which is currently in the current 485 rows. We offer the statement to be removed from the article text and the last joke of the substance to be replaced in the following way. "Those in charge of OSB bodies cannot function in the organs of other OSBs. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mevlüt Karakaya Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Now, I'm going to read and process the most inoppressive motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The governor is excluded from the application of a substitute member if he is on the committee. We request that the last joke of the matter be removed from the draft text and replaced in the following manner. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici "The board of directors cannot serve on multiple OSB delegations and audit boards, except for OSB, where they are board members. Does the Commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0234par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0233par0231	Now, our speakers, from time to time, the minister of production is not here. They say so. Members of parliament, the main minister of production is the Minister of Education, the higher the level of education, the higher the production in the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ceyhun İrgil has asked for a statement about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0235par0236	We offer the Minister enough ideas in the commissions, so I'm going back to my friends.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0233par0237	It wasn't a warning. I'll rewind your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0236par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Like all my friends, I'm taking a break from the march of justice, and I'm here for our march of justice in Congress. Friends, many of our friends today are making a point of view and are on the country's agenda. I have a request from you: Have you read this decision text? To reveal the information that should remain confidential about the security of the state in order to spy on it, says the decision text. Enis Berberoglu's decision was that the president, the Prime Minister, the government had humanitarian aid supplies in the region. If their statement is true, it is a trap not only for power but also for the country, and for Enis Berberoglu it is a plot. No, if the government's statements aren't true, if they've deceived society and us, then this decision is an independent court for war crimes in the country's international arenas and courts, as you put it. Think of who this court's ruling will best benefit if it is not considered correct as a legal document, and if it does not break. If he does not teach the CHP and the opposition a lesson, I will not leave him like that. The expression of the President's statement is sabotaged by Turkey's claim of independent judgment, if he does not answer with an emotional attitude, anger, and spite. Turkey is on its way to dictatorship all over the world. It supports perception and international lobbying activities. This decision will be in the hands of the family. The decision is that the President, the Prime Minister, and the government insist on providing humanitarian aid in these trucks. This decision, based on Enis Berberoglu's subject, is to teach CHP, the opposition, and to seek a few days of victory and joy from this decision, which will last forever for the government and the country, to help Turkey with secret cover jobs, to help terrorists with weapons. Think about it. How will you respond to this international court order? The decision is an independent court order, correct. Or, no, the court order is not correct. That's right. If you say so yourself, will you be able to verify the state secret arguments with a court order and hand over the country's fate and prestige to international courts? If you say it's not true, then why is Enis Berberoglu under arrest? If this legal freak is not soon corrected, perhaps you will spend a few years in the pleasure of condemning Enis Berberoglu for twenty-five years, but you and the government will be condemned to live on charges of war crimes and weapons for the murder of innocent people forever. Enis Berberoglu's decision is political, not legal. The court sentenced Enis Berberoglu to Article 330 of the Turkish Penal Code, a verb based on the act of disclosure of the state secret. Let's say that this article contained classified information in the Supreme Court's decision 2010/1586, which is in the interpretation of secrecy, which is that at the time of this kind of information being published and released, it essentially lost the quality of being a secret if it was public knowledge and known by everyone else. This decision was made on 29 May 2015 for the report in the Cumhuriyet daily, but on 21 January 2014, the same photos were published in another newspaper almost a year and a half ago. On June 24, 2014, about a year ago, this news and images were broadcast on YouTube. On May 12, 2015, before this decision, President Germany had already declared humanitarian aid to the Turks. On May 18, 2015, AKP Chair Yasin Aktay announced that the weapons were going to the ESO. Conclusion: If power is telling the truth, it is unfair and political; no, if power is lying, it is not legal, but it is a political decision that will make Turkey and power difficult. Therefore, this decision must be immediately corrected by a more competent, fair superior authority. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0237par0247	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The state is excluded from the application of a replacement member if it is included in the second joke of Article 42 of the Law Charter to change certain Law and Law Decisions with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions of Industrial Industry, which is currently in the current 485 rows. We offer the statement to be removed from the article text and the last joke of the substance to be replaced in the following way. "Those in charge of OSB bodies cannot function in the organs of other OSBs. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0238par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0237par0258	It's Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Deputy Heromarash who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0239par0261	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the motion on Article 42 of the Law on the Development of Industry and Support of Productions and on the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. I hereby salute your grand delegation and all our fellow citizens who follow us with love and respect. Dear lawmakers have recently announced Turkey's first 500 industrial enterprises in 2016, and Fortune magazine has announced the world's first 500 industrial enterprises in 2016. When it comes to the development of industry and the support of production, I benefit from looking at the data and locations of our industrial institutions around the world. Before that, I'd like to repeat my unemployment in terms of its importance. I also congratulate our industry, where unemployment, inflation, public waste is a record breaker, employment is not increasing, unemployment is not reduced, corruption and poverty cannot be gained in rule of law, institutionalisation, expertise; in short, by creating, creating jobs, by creating jobs, by exporting, by paying taxes and bonuses. The Istanbul Industrial Chamber announced Turkey's report on 5/6/2017 of 500 major industrial companies. TAPRAC, as it was last year, was the first on the list since 1968. TIPRAS became Turkey's largest industrial enterprise with 32 billion euros and 594m euros; Ford was the second largest in the country. Ford's turnout was 16.3 billion, and TOFASH's turnout was 12.8 billion. The sales of industrial giants from production increased by 8.8 per cent compared to the previous year to $490 billion, total operating profits increased by 18.6 per cent to $52.4 billion, and total exports increased to $55.1 billion. I'd like to point out that more than half of the main operating profits that industrial companies have acquired are financial costs. So our industry's biggest problem is funding. Mr. Erdal Bahçıvan, chairman of the ISO Board of Directors, has expressed his determination and determination to succeed in a year of social, political, terrorism and geopolitical negativity; he is correct. Indeed, more than half of the profits have been recorded as financing costs, there have been huge numbers of courtship fluctuations; and more importantly, that terrorism continues; the referendum, July 15 coup attempt has been shown as the closest track friend of the economy, friend of the hard-time industry by the president of the Industrial Chamber, in an environment where extraordinary state practices, the rule of law debates continue. Although the top 50 companies of the list sold $241 billion, the debt burden of 500 industrial companies increased in 2016 and increased to $207 billion. The increasing debt, the cost of funding for 50 per cent of the profits, will make it very difficult to provide new funding in the future. As a matter of fact, the damage to more than 100 industrial companies in 2016 is from here. In 2016, unemployment took place at 13 per cent, with the young population finding 24 per cent of the economy, we have to say that the 15,000 jobs it created, despite all kinds of negative efforts, are very important, but it does not offer much hope to show the overall economy's progress. Dear lawmakers, that's why our industry, which sells 1st in the ranking, is high in its turnover by processing imported oil. According to the Fortune magazine list, when we look at it on the world scale, Turkey's 1st TUPRAS can only come to the world's 320th position. Turkey's 2nd Ford and 5th Arcelik are not among the first 500 industrial companies in the world. WHEN you go out, it's sad to say that Turkish industry has no impact, no position in the world industry. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to say that if we really want to avoid unemployment, we have to support our industry in the first place, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0240par0269	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The governor is excluded from the application of a replacement member if he is on the committee. We propose and propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0241par0278	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0240par0279	Erol Dora has asked about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0242par0282	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 42nd Amendment in the Constitution of the Law on the Purpose of Development of Industry and Supporting Production. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with this clause of the bill, some regulations are brought to organised industrial areas. However, there is no arrangement that could make the workers, who are the true workers of organised industrial areas, smile at the majority of the bill. On this occasion, I would like to make a few points on the health and safety of workers in Turkey through some data. Dear lawmakers, basic human rights documents adopted during various periods of the historical process have registered everyone's right to work in a healthy and secure job as an international norm. For example, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, there is a right for everyone to work freely, to choose their jobs freely, to work in just and affordable conditions and to protect themselves from unemployment. The job is clearly described in human honor. In 1981 and 1985, the International Labour Organization signed two important occupational health agreements and recommendations. ILO has pointed out that with these contracts and recommendations decisions, more serious measures are needed to eliminate existing negatives in the field of business health and safety on the world scale. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, today there is still debate throughout the world about the implementation of regulatory measures to promote women and men's freedom, rights and security opportunities by moving from human work, job, human dignity, basic health and approach. In this regard, various legal provisions have been made in order to achieve sufficient and lasting results in the field of occupational health and safety in our country. However, the changes in the bag of laws and regulations have been made to constantly change the scope and duration of the service areas, and at this point, unfortunately, the work health and work safety system in our country has been rendered inoperable. In short, the ILO agreements 155 and 161 were issued in 2004, after the adoption of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, without the agreement of Social Health and Safety Law 6331. Dear lawmakers, see, it is highly thought to be made to determine that Turkey is the first in Europe and the third in the world in mortal business accidents, and that the average of 28 EU member states is six times higher. According to data released by the Istanbul Labor Health and Business Safety Assembly, from 2004-2012 our average citizens lost their lives every year in business accidents. In 2015 1,730 workers lost their lives and in 2016 1,970 workers died in business accidents, 741 workers died in the first five months of this year. Dear lawmakers, the emphasis on business health and safety as a key approach to constant improvement in working environments and conditions is critical not only to employees but also to the well-being of the social structure. Unfortunately, however, in our country, occupational health and safety are not important. Moreover, legal regulations, which are expected to have a piece of ointment on this bleeding wound, cannot be implemented. The content of the relevant legislation must be constantly replaced against the worker, to be replaced in favour of employers and market actors, and in our country, especially in the production and manufacturing sectors, to be opened to human working conditions, I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0243par0289	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 42nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 42 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 43. Secondly, the motion to read is the most in violation of the clause, and I'm going to follow it to be read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the statement of the statement in Article 43 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 43 of the "five original, five alternate members" of the Law Charter, under which there is a amendment to certain Laws and Laws, with the aim of the development of industry number 485 and Supporting Productions, we propose and propose that five noble and five alternate members be replaced by the expression "five royal and five alternate members." Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettitin Bayır Sibel Özdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0244par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0243par0309	He wants to talk about the motion. He's an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0245par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 43rd amendment of the current bill. I salute your high council. Article 43 contains an arrangement for the structure of the governing body of organised industrial areas. We've discussed this in the commission, we have no objection to that clause. I specifically wanted to take the words, since our precious Minister of Education is here. As our Deputy Speaker specifically stated, if we're discussing production and industrialization, the most important thing we need to discuss here is education reform. I've done my academic studies specifically on countries' industrialisation policies, and the most obvious idea there is that countries start their industrialization process by doing huge reforms in education policies. The countries that make today's industrialised, very important, successful development moves are all countries that have successfully implemented holistic policies such as production, industrialization, qualified human resources, education. In this development and industrialisation process, the largest share depends on the free, scientific work of universities and academics and on their capacity to produce scientific work, their performance. But we've all seen together for fifteen years that the ruling party, which governs the education policy alone, yes, no fighting, no noise, especially Mr. Secretary, we're talking about education policy, but we didn't see it when we looked at it. I personally attended presentations by Minister of Science and Industry, Mr. Özlü, Chairman of the Higher Education Board, Mr. Sarac, which, on different dates, made to members of the Commission with a package of production reform. Indeed, for the sake of our educational system and higher education, this package has very important regulations. We did not have a Minister of National Education in the Commission and the General Assembly as we discussed educational matters. These articles were discussed in both the General Assembly and the Commission in the chairmanship of the Minister of Science and Industry. But our most important criticism is here: the provisions of the bill concerning education were discussed with the commission's property, and after the meeting was discussed, the opposition was written, but a week later, at the Industrial Commission meeting again, there were regulations for education, without members of the Education Commission. As opposition party lawmakers, we are strongly opposed to the addition of non-relevant, educational-related substances to this bill. Here, here, yes, the changed-named universities have been added, while the materials are discussed, different motions are being made from the ruling party, and suddenly, an important regulation on universities passes through the General Assembly without being discussed by the Commission members. At this point, we really, as members of the National Board of Education, are making huge objections. In these arrangements -- I mentioned it in my speech the other day -- there was a very important arrangement, which was discussed in the Industrial Commission's work, uninterviewed at the Education Commission -- where professors are entitled to staffs and double salary at universities. While you're on the General Assembly, I'd like to rephrase that. I really -- I told you the other day -- there's a lot of young scientists, and they're waiting for a staff, and I think it's against the very principle of injustice and equality that's been done to them in public universities. Indeed, as members of Parliament, it is the most fundamental problem we are expected to address, and we need very important reforms on our educational system and higher education, which, unfortunately, this government cannot solve. This bag of legislation, which the ruling party has made a habit of, has never really been in line with the law and political ethics that you've been taking step-by-step for fifteen years, but more importantly, it's shown once again how vitally the regulations are not cared for by the education of the ruling party, how carelessly they are treated. As the Minister has just stated, there are really important regulations in higher education: integration of universities, vocational institutes and applied education, technology transfer offices, post-doc research, the establishment of consultation boards. These are the very important provisions that require the institutional structure of the CEC. These regulations are the basic need for autonomy and academic freedom, but our greatest wish is for them to be implemented and universities to be kept away from political ideology. But I would like to say that we can't talk about scientific progress, development and growth in a situation where the quality of education is really reduced in the field of basic education, in which we are away from a free, autonomous academic world. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0246par0321	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the statement of the statement in Article 43 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Erdal Atash (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0247par0330	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0246par0331	Ziya Pir wants to talk about the motion, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0248par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have the Tenth Development Plan, written in 2013 (2014-2018), which says: "The Tenth Development Plan was drafted with the contributions of public institutions and organizations, as well as by many representatives from all parts of our community. More than 3,000 academics, public workers, private sectors and civil society representatives contributed to the commissions, and more than 7,000 people contributed to the programme, he says. 3,000 academics, let's keep that in mind, please. Based on this, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology then publishes the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document in 2015; it covers 2015-2018. There's a sentence here on page 33 concerning vision and general purpose: "The Tenth Development Plan, which covers the 2014-2018 period, is high, stable and inclusive economic growth, as well as the rule of law -- which I first read about, kept me laughing, but the rule of law is still written here. You call it the rule of law, but how many MPs are still on trial despite the Constitutional Court's ruling? How many of those 3,000 academics are still on duty? That's what we want to know. What's the status of Wikipedia? If it's open or closed, answer me about it. ...International competitiveness, human development, conservation of the environment, etcetera, etcetera. Where I'm from, Amed, they'll pass it on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Now, Mr. Secretary, in collaboration with university and industry -- I'm going to go there because you came -- there are techno parks or technokents in Turkey. You're not giving us the new numbers of 2015, we're asking you, it's not coming. As of the end of 2015, I have the numbers, 49 of them in 63 technology development areas, currently operating in techno parks. These include -- listen carefully, dear friends -- 3,744 companies operate. As of December 2015, a total of 38,239 employees are working and the number of patents that have been registered and completed 18.318 projects is 591. Let me give you a number, what does that mean? Within three years, a young man with the same last name finished college with me and received seven patents alone in Germany; this is currently being used in Porsches, Audi and BMW. Now, 38,239 people are 591 in ten years, 1 is 7 in three years; why is that so? Because you take people who are a little bit crazier, think a little bit more, want to work a little bit more, either you put them in jail or you block them out. Don't block people, open them, close the prisons, close these techno parks. Why? Now, your university-industrial co-operation has been established in Dicle Technokent, Diyarbakir. Open the Internet, guys, look, I've been on every page, one by one, there's a lot of pages, you know, it's called tax protection? This page is coming out. He said, "There's no information in it. He referred to one law." This page is RDV support for the Academies; this page, this page; this page, the Prim Support, this page; this is the same page -- we're doing the same page -- the same page -- the same page, the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page; the same page. Yeah, I thought I'd get a hold of these, so get in touch with us. He says. ▪ Phone and fax: +90..., the rest is empty; we understand it's in Turkey, but we can't reach it. I reached out to someone in the administration, and he gave me a phone call:,0412326..., something. Yesterday, I called several times, we can't reach it, and they wrote at the bottom: "Dicle Technokent; information, technology, innovation, research development and production..." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the field, it will become an important centre in the national and international arena. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0249par0343	Thank you, Mr. Pir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 43 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 44. Secondly, the motion to read will be the most in violation of the clause and will be processed after reading it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is in Article 44 of the 485 rows that are being discussed, should be changed in the form of,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Mahmut Toğrul Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Gaziantep İstanbul İzmir Garo Paylan Ahmet Yıldırım Behcet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law, we propose and propose that the amendment be changed to Article 44. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Tacettin Bayır Serkan Topal İrfan Bakr Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0250par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0249par0363	It's Serkan Topal, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0251par0366	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Well, it's not really my custom, but Mr. Salih Cora and Ramadan Can, who sat here in my previous podium speech, spoke. When I went to the room, I read the transcripts. If it were a normal criticism, I wouldn't be talking about it here, but I have to say it here because they say I've kept quiet about the death of Aybuke Teacher, especially about the terrorists, that I'm accusing, that I'm not brave. I'm sorry, no one can question my patriotism, and it's not the right thing to do. Now, if we're going to talk about courage, I'm going to say to Mr. Cora and Mr. Can. Here you go, let's play some dare.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0252par0368	What do you want, a duel?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0251par0369	Now, especially I have cursed the PKK, ISIS, all terrorist organizations, and once again I curse those who support them, and I curse those who give them weapons. Now, then, let me test your courage a little: Now, Mr. Cora, Mr. Can, why did you remain silent when the terrorist organization was greeted with drums at Habur Border Gate? Why didn't you have the courage to remain silent while the moats were being dug? Why did you remain silent as a deputy while negotiations were being made in Oslo? Where's the courage? What courage? When you take over all the institutions of the state... what courage are you talking about? Now, let me ask you one more thing: were there drugs in MIT trucks or weapons? Come on, on this stand, if you dare. Why did you remain silent when the Turkish Armed Forces were being framed? Where's the courage?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0253par0372	We invite you on the agenda, Mr. President. We want him to talk about the law.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0251par0373	Look, now, I'll tell you where we get our courage, our patriotism: We are a nation in Tripoli in 1911, in 1912-1913, in the Balkans, in 1914-1918, in Çanakkale. I've lived free forever, I've lived free, Who the hell's gonna chain me up? I'm surprised. I'm like a roaring flood, chewing on me, overcoming me, And I will tear up the mountains, and I will not dwell in the depths, and I will overflow. We are the descendants of a nation, the children of Mustafa Kemal. (CHP and AK PARTY) We took the courage from there and came here. Where did you get your courage? Why are you silent in all the events I just counted? Now, I would like to express in particular: Again, in 1918, in the 1920s, we are prepared to fight again with the same spirit, the same spirit, the same spirit, the same spirit, the Kovaimilli, the same spirit, as the Nene Hats stood up to the gun with the pick shovel and the ball.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0254par0379	No one's saying anything. It's meat, all right.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0251par0380	I'd like to add, Mr. Cora, that all the answers to the questions I just asked you... we can't hear them, we can't hear them, but we read them in the transcripts. If you have the courage to answer all the questions I've just asked you on this stand, please. I've never, ever done anything like this personally, but you've forced me to ask these questions here. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0255par0383	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0256par0384	A word...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0255par0385	I'll give you my word on the motion, Mr. Botanci. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Bostanci, I'm turning on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0257par0390	Mr. President, I don't think anyone has any doubts about Serkan Bey's patriotism. I'm sure there's no question of what kind of speech was made here in the political negotiations, but there's no negative assessment in the presence of any of his fellow patriots, of course. Also, our friends applauded the exciting conversation he just had here. We're only partners in patriotism, but we may have different ideas about how to love the country, what's best for the country. Of course, it's a job for all of us to be civilized in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0255par0392	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. There's a second motion on matter, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is in Article 44 of the 485 rows that are being discussed, should be changed in the form of,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Garo Paylan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0258par0403	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0255par0404	It is Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0259par0407	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're here. We've been talking about this law for days, but we needed you because we can't develop the industry without you. I mean, there's no question that the National Ministry of Education... Look, you've been in power for 15 years, and Mr. Recep has expressed his criticism about this, and he has made a self-criticism that they failed in education. Let's at least make it right from now on, Mr. Secretary, but this law doesn't hold stitches either. Look, there's a lot of stuff about the DSR, and we've come from a AKP who's claiming to remove the DSR to an AKP who's re-investigating the DSR today. You're giving orders from headquarters. There's a lot of stuff, you know, sir, you're giving orders from the center how old the college staff will work. But it's all the work the college councils do, Mr. Secretary. Look, we've been through this in the past. What does the centrist look do? Everyone's trying to take over power at that center. In the past, it was another force that tried to take over yesterday, and it was organized at many points, and it infiltrated many points, and it took over the SEC, and it took over the universities; and today we suffer. But even after the coup, we're facing laws that don't teach and reassert the PLO. Mr. Secretary, as long as we don't get a liberal look at high-tech products, we can't increase our rate of 3% to 4 percent, it's obvious. Look, the export rate of South Korea in high-tech products is 30 percent; friends, 10 times ours, 30 percent. You set a $500 billion export target for 2023, and we're counting at $150 billion. For this to be changed, only aim for 2030, and aim for 2035. By providing liberal education to today's 15-16-year-olds, by expanding their freedom zones, by giving them a reflection of their free ideas in universities, we can only draw our income from a person walking at nine to 10 thousand dollars today to 20 to 25 grand, and we can do that fairly. Of course, we'll split the cake fair and square with social government policies. But, Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, this law also authorises the NGO and has a centralist understanding. And Mr. Secretary, I've criticised the SEC, so I'll really stick you with the needle a little bit. And in that sense, let's start with this theory of evolution in terms of high school. Look, you removed the theory of evolution from the high school curriculum. There was a friend on TV yesterday, and you know who you're supposed to be. The theory of evolution is not against Islam. While there was an academic who said, "Evolution is not against Islam." You removed the theory of evolution from the high school curriculum. Look, no theory of evolution, no science, no biology. Dear friends, look, human beings, me, you, all of us, we mutate every day. So we're under the influence of millions of bacteria, mushrooms, viruses. You mutate from the cigarettes you smoke, the food you eat, and you react differently to the viruses that come every day, to the bacteria. Look, a year ago, the flu virus, the flu vaccine, it doesn't affect after a year. Why? It mutates because the flu virus is part of evolution. In the story of billions of years of the universe, there's an evolution, there's a mutation, there's a change. If you take it out of the high school curriculum, get it out of the biology book, you're going to destroy a science called biology. There's the Minister: 'Sir, there's a Big Bang Theory in the physics book.' He says he's trying to make amends from there. It won't, Mr. Secretary. If you remove the theory of evolution from biology, you don't teach biology to children. You're raising children who don't have an analytical thought about it, who don't have a scientific opinion. A child who doesn't have a critical opinion can never be creative, never. Mr. Secretary, just because of that, especially in the last two years, we're facing a very serious brain drain. Look, I go to Western universities, I face a lot of Turkish scientists, and these people produce very serious patents, they reveal their creativity. Because why? From here, under the deans and rectors you appoint from the center, without merit, they moan. As long as we can't create a free university, friends, if you bring in 20 industrial sacks, our income per person won't go from $10,000 to $11,000, we'll be stuck at 3 percent in high-tech products. If we look at it this way, we can only improve industry, my friends. With respect.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0260par0417	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 44 is accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 45. I'm going to read these proposals in the same manner and I'm going to process them together; I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 485 rows of the Law shall be changed in the form of the 45th Amendment. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettin Bayır Vecdi Gündoğdu Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0261par0436	We disagree.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0260par0437	I'll make a promise to those who have motions for the same kind of motions. The first say belongs to the 40seli MP Vecdi Gündoğdu. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0262par0441	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we're going through the most difficult days of our recent history. On July 15th, our country was faced with a treacherous and low coup attempt. I have announced to the world that the rule of law and sovereignty of the nation will always continue under any circumstances, while many of my fellow lawmakers were exposed to bullets and bombs here in the Veteran Assembly that night. Then, on the call of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu declared this success and unity to the world in Yenikapi to ensure the continuation of our unity and integrity. Despite the well-intentioned and hugging steps of our president, unfortunately, the government hasn't shown the same sensitivity in the last year. The government soon lost its soul, and with the State of Emergency, it was poisoned with power. Under the guise of the 11 months of the State of Emergency, it has turned into a process, unfortunately, which has oppressed and terrorized and differentiated all opposition groups in society. All gains of the state of democratic and secular law with the State of Emergency have also been shattered. In the wrong policy against foreign policy and terrorist organizations, Ergenekon, in the deception of the Balyoz and espionage cases, and in the years of protection and protection of the ▪ What did we not give them? God forgive us. We are deceived. We are deceived. The government, who continues to read what it knows, despite its confessions. The government, who still has to hit the wall once again. We warn the government to listen to common sense, common sense, so that we may not be deceived again. Hear ye, lest both our country and our nation's future be dragged into the dark depths. For twelve years Mr. Davutoglu has led you astray in foreign policy. We said, "You didn't listen." This is being billed by our Mehmet-chik, our children with their lives now. The tears of the mothers shall cease. You set out, and the tears of the mothers were poured out. You sat at the table with terrorist organizations, set up private tent courts on the border, but the courts turned into tent theaters. You've destroyed the reputation and dignity of the country. You didn't listen. In 2004, you ignored, embraced, supported, and raised a dangerous organization that was proven by state documents on the National Security Council. You thought you were relieved of responsibility by saying, "We were deceived." But again, the people paid the bill. 250 of our citizens lost their lives after the treacherous coup. Because you didn't listen, justice, which is the key element of the country, the state, the nation's existence, has slipped through your grasp. Congressmans, the knife is up to the bone. Please don't make this country, our beloved nation, pay any more price. So end your suffering, your tears, your injustices, and your injustices. So that our nation may trust in its government, its army, its judgment, its assembly, and look forward to tomorrows, and live in its land with hope, and be honored and happy. Now listen, listen, and please be discreet. For the first time in the history of the Republic, a leader of a main opposition party began to march for justice. Yeah, just for justice. For justice, one day we'll all need it, he walks for justice. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu walks only for those who seek justice in Kırklareli, and in Haqkari, and in Sinop, and in Adana, and only for those who seek justice. Kemal Kilicdaroglu also walks for the justice of workers, laborers, civil servants, peasants, soldiers, bureaucrats, judges, politicians and you MPs, and he walks for everyone. Hear ye, hear ye, that your past deception may be a lesson, that our people, and our people, and our people, shall no more pay the price, neither shall they weep, nor shall they have drama. I call justice for humanity, I call justice for democracy, I call justice for freedom, I call justice for my beautiful country, I call justice for Turkey, and one day I say, again and again, justice for justice for justice you will need.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0263par0453	Thank you, Mr. Gündüz. Imam Taşçıer wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0264par0457	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. And especially since our Minister of National Education is here in this speech, I'm going to have more important things to say. As you know, in the development of a country, health, education and law are the greatest measures. And as an educator, I'd like to express my thoughts on education. As you know, 25 million Kurds live in Turkey. In their native language, unfortunately, these Kurds haven't done their training until today, and it doesn't look like they'll be able to do it after today. In the years when the AKP came to power, even in 2005, today's President, Prime Minister of the day, Diyarbakir, said: "The Kurdish issue is my problem, and I will make great efforts to resolve it." Unfortunately, 25 million Kurds cannot train in their native language. As you know, there has been a half-hour program in Kurdish before, and then there have been full-time programs, which have been taken a little bit further, and now they're being changed to the name TRT Kurdî, and they're doing full-time programs throughout the day. These programs didn't divide the country, they didn't go anywhere, they didn't cause any problems. Why is it that in a country where 25 million Kurds live, people whose native language is Kurdish are not educated, as well? It can be done. Many countries around the world have more than one language education, including developing countries, starting with developed countries. There are more than one official language in many countries. Why shouldn't Turkey be one of them? So Kurds live in Turkey, they exist; that's a fact. Only this Parliament can solve the problems of this reality, of these things, of these people. In order to resolve these problems, all dynamics of the country, especially the Parliament, must join hands and make efforts to resolve them. We can start with education, with the main language; we can start with the future processes, that's how we're going to do it. The mother tongue is not preferred by men, nor by them. I didn't know a word of Turkish until the day I went to elementary school, and I believe that the AKP MPs, the Kurds -- CHP and MPHP -- were in that situation. I learned Turkish in elementary school. If I lived in another country, for example in England, I would learn English, but 25 million Kurds live here, and these people can't train in their native language. Where's the principle of equal citizenship? It says in the Constitution: "Everyone is equal to the law and everyone is equal to it. " As a Kurdish, I can't benefit from 25 million Kurds. There's no need to go too far to figure out how and how we're going to solve this. We can start training in the native language. We start in dense areas and it spreads all over Turkey. It's very productive in terms of the country's development and industry. Imagine, we all know what an educated person's role in the industry and the role of an uneducated person in the industry are. I'd like to ask the Minister again if there is such a project or not. So is 25 million Kurds really going to be ignored, or is there going to be a study of basic education? If such a study is to be launched, I, as an educator, would be happy to participate in this study. If this Parliament wants to solve the problems of this country, it has to start here. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0265par0468	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 45 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 46, I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose, after the court's declaration of bankruptcy (also referred to in Article 46) of Law Bill 485 which is currently in session, to add to it and propose that it be added after the court's declaration of postponement. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In connection with the service of Article 46 of Article 46 of the Law (OSB), which is part of the third joke of the Law Bill, with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions, we propose and propose that the service be replaced by τOSB be given. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettin Bayır Ceyhun İrgil Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0266par0488	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0265par0489	It's Ceyhun Ýrgil who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0267par0492	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your High Council. Today and yesterday's statements show that some politicians and officials have made statements that have underestimated this march of justice and are mocking or approaching with irony. We want it to be known that the justice march launched by the Republican People's Party is not just the march of the party, it is the march of those who seek justice and seek justice, it is the walk of all who are sensitive and conscientious in the face of injustice. We want justice, equal justice and law for all, not for one person, position, relative, fortune. When the tyranny of the oppressors grows, when law and justice are not in the courts, when the knife is on the bone, the street is right. If even the main opposition leader of a country has to walk with a banner, everyone should think about it. It's the silent cry of the lonely and helpless people. This march is no more than a walk. For us, it is not just the arrest of Enis Berberoğlu. For those of you who still don't understand, let's tell you again: this march is the march of those who don't pay for the goods, take your mother, the farmers who are being exploited, the farm workers who are being exploited, the officers who are being intimidated by pressure, the employees who are being robbed, the subcontractors who are being tricked, the people who are being bullied, the people who are being abused, the people who are being abused, millions of unemployed, the people who are being wronged by KPSS, the people who are getting torpedoed, and the people who are being robbed. It is the march of Somalı, who was kicked to death by the teacher, who was left to die by the love of teaching, the miners who were left to die on the trip, the ones who were beaten, the young people who were killed, the Berkins, Ali Ismails, the people who were framed by conspiracy, the Turks, Ali Tatars, the students who were forced to leave school without money, the teachers who couldn't be appointed, the ones who lost their lives by stealing test questions, the ones who were robbed of their rights, the ones who were taken away by executive decrees, the 14000 EYP1 research worker, the ones who were arrested, the people who were arrested by law, the people who were without a verdict, the people who were wronged, the ones who were wronged, the ones who were wronged, the ones who were wronged, the ones who were arrested, the ones who were arrested, and the ones who were the ones who lost in order of the law. This is the march of the 160 journalists behind bars, 20,000 workers who have died in work murders in 15 years, 2,000 sons of citizens who have been killed in 15 years, the remaining martyrs of their children, 400 of our veterans, the victims of terror, 250 of our civilian citizens who have passed through history on July 15th, 400 of the people who have been threatened by the people who have lost their will to the High Election Board, despite the fact that they have lost their wills in the referendum. This march is enough, we want justice. It's the march of those who say. This is the march of those who seek justice, a little conscience, a little grace, a little mercy, a little justice, and the march of those who seek justice for all. Mr. Prime Minister said today: "There is no justice on the street, there is no Parliament." I want to address Mr. Prime Minister here: We are on the road because justice is not where it should be, and we seek justice. Does the opposition bring suggestions to every part of society, every area of business under the roof of this House? He's getting it. Does he want fair provisions for every worker's rights? He wants to. Are hundreds of laws offered by the opposition pending in the commissions of their presidents, members of power? Standing by. Are the research proposals submitted by the opposition to the General Assembly rejected by power? Rejected. Do we have to struggle for days as opposition to protect our olive groves, even our mera? We're staying. In this parliament, even in the vote of the constitutional amendment that will affect the entire community, there is no fair solution to this Parliament, as the government, which enjoys voting contrary to the Constitution, with power and ambition alone, is sitting in front of us. If he does, there'll be justice for power and for all sides. For this reason, those who are hurt and tired of injustice are on the road. I said that cancer was more democratic than this Parliament. I left it incomplete that day, and I repeat, friends, even cancer is fairer than this Parliament. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0268par0503	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0269par0507	We want roll call.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit03spe0268par0508	There's got to be a roll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Engin, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balgil, Mr. Topal, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Guğdağ, Mr. Rights, Mr. Kusoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit04spe0268par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting on Article 46 of the Law Bill 485 could not be found enough in the roll call before the vote of Bursa MP Ceyhun İrgil and his friends' motion. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 485. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose, after the court's declaration of bankruptcy (also referred to in Article 46) of Law Bill 485 which is currently in session, to add to it and propose that it be added after the court's declaration of postponement. Erdal Atash (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit04spe0270par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit04spe0268par0022	Erdal Atash has asked about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit04spe0271par0025	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the government and the current government, who have not taken steps to correct the crisis in the field of economy and politics, are still stalling the current agenda to bring temporary solutions to the problems of certain areas with the bag of laws. This bag, prepared for the benefit of a small group, is approved by the law to correct the conditions of three or five employers on the shores, to make arrangements for them, even though there is no need, to strengthen the Council of Ministers' hands in some way, in the benefit of their allies, for the harm of small producers. But we know about the economy, the economy involves a development that can only be improved by greater breakthroughs. Although it is the 16th, 17th largest economy, there are three or four basic criteria in this geography, particularly for people to live in great poverty. One of them is on strengthening the economy -- one of the criteria is that foreign policy is being conducted on the right basis -- and somehow the globalized capital in the world is being carried out along with a legal arrangement in favor of the workers in that country. But unfortunately, at our country's foreign policy point, the continued decline of relations with neighbouring countries and other economic forces in the world -- the EU, the United States and Russia -- is deepening the concessions given to them, reducing the development of capital and investments in this country; again, major damage to the development of dollars, other issues. Not only that, but the laws against the manufacturer and the workers in the economic field -- which are developed against them -- in this country, a large number of millions of people in the 16th largest economy -- and the ranking of this country in 180 countries around the world -- are reduced to the 100th. Not only that, but there are significant problems at the inner peace point -- let's keep it from the Kurdish problem -- the Alevis issue, the matter of faith, from the other issues to the ecology, and the country's economy is not taking the right steps towards them, and there are significant challenges. So at the same time, all the statements that the economy has been said to have improved, and at the same time, we can see that it has evolved in the opposite direction. There's over $410 billion in foreign debt. For example, it's said that the debt to the IMF, which is constantly out of debt to the IMF, was said to be over, but there were 23 billion dollars in debt to the IMF during the 2000s, but the external debt was around 130-140 billion dollars. At this stage today, let's say that $120-130 billion debt is up to $410 billion. It's a continuous policy of closure, distraction, and deception over $23 billion. In public space, in the central bank area, a debt of 130-140 billion dollars in private sector is now between $410 billion and $430 billion. Unemployment has reached 3,900,000 people. At the end, it corresponds to the population of about 20 of our cities. When we remove the children, the pensioners, the disabled, the home workers, all those working people, 50 cities are currently out of work. Cari gives us $4 billion per month, we go in $40 billion a year, so the next year, this country's external debt will be around $500 billion. Not only that, but only in these first few months in the manufacturer's field, which means that in the course of this coming process, 40,000 tradeshops have been closed. Again, so many peasants are bankrupt. Not only that, but with policies, secret unemployment, around 6 million unemployed, the people of this country are largely driven towards poverty. There is only one solution: all these policies of war in domestic and foreign policy, all these anti-contamination policies, they must be abandoned, they must be put to rest. Again, there should be a policy, not on capital, but on the support of workers and workers, small managers and tradesmen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit04spe0272par0032	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 46th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 46th article has been accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit05spe0272par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0272par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 47, which I make to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to promote and support production, we would like to request and propose that the amount of the amount that they will specify in Article 47 of the Law Bill, under which some Laws and Laws shall be made to be changed. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakr Tacettin Bayır Burcu Koksal Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the districts of the districts where there is no special administration in Article 47 of the Common Law Bill 485 is changed in the form of the districts of the Metropolitan Municipality. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We disagree, sir. I'm reading the reason: YICOB () is a municipality established in the districts of Law 6360 and Metropolitan Municipality. The cities referred to as the municipalities of the capital are the cities of the city, which have no special administration. Therefore, the matter must be changed according to our proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to promote and support production, we would like to request and propose that the amount of the amount that they will specify in Article 47 of the Law Bill, under which some Laws and Laws shall be made to be changed. Burcu Koksal (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Burcu Koksal, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0273par0037	Mr. President, we've been meeting in this Veteran Assembly for days now for the purpose of improving industry and supporting production and the amendment of certain laws and laws. As a matter of fact, I don't think this bill needs to be discussed. Why? Because in order for industry and production to develop, both foreign investors and local investors have to invest once in our country, start new business. So, whether it's foreign investors or domestic investors, why don't they want to start new businesses right now? Because there's no justice in the country. If the investor is going to invest, whether domestic or foreign, if he's going to build an investment, he's going to look at the country's justice system first; if there's an independent judiciary, if basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed, that's the only way he'll invest. Here's our MP Enis Berberoglu, who was unfortunately victimized as a result of a political trial today in which justice has been manipulated, the judiciary has become political, so to speak, which smells like salt. Our chairman, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has launched a march from Ankara to İstanbul to rule over the rule of law, not over the rule of law, for the restoration of justice in Turkey, and today is seen on the third day of the march that the march has begun to become the hope of the oppressed, the victims, the victims in Turkey, the people seeking justice, justice, democracy in Turkey. This has disturbed many AKP members, particularly AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. They began to make it seem as if they were threatening their illness. What is it? Since we're walking, both our president and us will be called to a judge, and we'll be tried. You think we're gonna be scared? We're not afraid. It's a different matter, but they don't judge a person in any democracy who walks with a sign that says "justice." But thanks to you, you want to scare away people in our country, who, with a little bit of a slow limp, whose democracy has been massacred, who are walking for justice with the threat of trial. You will not be able to do this because we have never given up on threats, we have not been afraid, we will not be afraid, we will fight to the end, we will fight to the end, as we know right now; so that no one can fear the judge, the prosecutor, the judge, the judge, the judge, the judge, the judge, or the judge; we owe a life debt to God; and for the democracy of this country, all the patriots would gladly give it for the sake of the republic. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, you're talking about democracy in this country, judicial independence, and you're trying to threaten people who are walking. I'm sorry, but they call him a man. What a diet, what a sauerkraut. Mr. AKP, I have a humble advice for you: do not take revenge for justice, ignorance for dignity, for profit, politics, fascism for stability. That's my biggest advice to you, and let's join you in this march of justice in Turkey, under the leadership of our chairman, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, and spread with a wave of 81, which is everyone's hope, because you need this justice, and one day when you need this justice, we Republican People's Party will want this facility again, and we will defend it. I salute everyone with respect.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0274par0043	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0275par0044	My advice is to walk to people, to go to people, where you can win.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0273par0045	You're talking about people, you don't respect your own elected national will.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0274par0046	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0276par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0277par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0274par0049	Just a second... I'll vote, I promise. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 47th article is accepted. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0278par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. In my speech at the General Assembly this morning, Manisa brought up the issue of food poisoning at military barracks in Manisa, at Manisa headquarters on 23 May, on 27 May, in the 46kre district of Diyarbakır on 11 June, he expressed the poisoning of this food, and enough is enough, it will not be such a disgrace. We said it would not be so embarrassing to consider yesterday's incident. We have just received word that this evening, again in Manisa, two separate hospitals in the city of Manisa are again being removed from the position of a poisoning case. We don't know what to say anymore. As soon as possible, we need a statement from the government, the authorities, immediately. It can't go on like this, there's a great deal of anxiety. It's also the soldiers who are life-threatening. We expect an explanation immediately, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0279par0057	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0280par0060	Mr. President, we just told you this morning, it's been four times in the last month, because it was the fifth time last night. Today, after last night's incident, 350-400 soldiers in Manisa have shown signs of poisoning, saying that the number may be near a thousand, the soldiers in which they express discomfort. The soldiers are already going to the hospitals and every night with symptoms of food poisoning. There's something going on here. Let the people look into it. He was insensitive when we said. I told you in the morning, they didn't want Congress to investigate now, so we're all going to set up a commission like this the next day after a very bad painting, but at least the Ministry of National Defense should take it seriously. The children there are all sons of the fatherland, the lambs of their mothers who are entrusted to the state. They're willing to risk their lives to give their country their lives, they're willing to risk martyrdom, but don't let them die for such a privatized, untraceable company. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0281par0063	Thank you, Mr. Special. There are two motions on Article 48: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "OSBs may be given loans for projects that are necessary for their activities and will be appropriate to the ministry. We offer and offer loans for projects that "the OSB needs for the activities of the OSBs and will be seen as appropriate to the Ministry. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Ýrfan Bakır Fatma Kaplan Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "For loans used by the Ministry, loan interest can be supported. We offer and propose that the declaration be removed from the draft text. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Anybody want to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0282par0086	Motive...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0281par0087	I'm reading the reason: With change, the interest burden was intended to be prevented from being damaged by the public. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0283par0091	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit06spe0281par0092	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0281par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 485th Article of the Law Bill of 485, there was not enough decision-making in the vote of Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım and his friends. Now, I'm going to repeat the voting process, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We continue the talks of Bill 485. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0284par0008	Everyone just got out of bankruptcy.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0281par0009	I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "OSBs may be given loans for projects that will be seen as appropriate for their activities by the Ministry, which are part of Article 48 (48) under the Law and Law Charter, under which some Laws and Law Acts shall be changed, with the aim of improving and Supporting Productions, as well as of 485, which is in line with the Ministry. The statement can be credited for projects that the OSB needs for the activities of the OSBs. We offer and offer to change it into form. Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet and her friends
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0285par0013	Garo did it once.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0286par0014	Son, it's not me, you're misunderstanding. Ask him if he said me, you idiot!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0285par0015	Garo does it once, you do it every day.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0286par0016	I'll do it. What is it? I'm gonna ask you?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0285par0017	I can still understand Garo, but I can't understand you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0286par0018	You don't understand humanity, you don't understand evil.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0287par0019	Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0288par0023	And when you say you have a thing, you get angry.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0289par0024	Boy, you ain't got that much morality, that much, that much!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0287par0025	It's Fatma Kaplan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0028	You have a problem with this nation's faith, your problem!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0291par0029	Go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0030	You don't even tolerate slander.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0291par0031	Idiot, you think you're the only one who does anything.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0032	Look at me, you watch your mouth! You watch what you say, okay? You watch what you say!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0291par0033	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0034	Take that back!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0291par0035	You take it back!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0036	Take that back!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0291par0037	You take it back! Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0292par0038	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0290par0039	Take that back!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0292par0040	Mr. Tiger Liberty, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0293par0041	Mr. President, look, there's been an argument here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0292par0042	Yes, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0293par0044	There's an argument going on here, our friends, we just need to decide...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0292par0045	Didn't hear you, Mr. Elistash, did you use your mic...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0293par0046	There's been a discussion about the number of decisions enough, there's been a debate, but, Mr. Group Vice President, he's an idiot.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0294par0047	Honey, can't you hear what he's saying?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0293par0048	But, look, he's an idiot...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0295par0049	Yeah, that's what I'm saying again.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0294par0050	Is that rude, dear?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0293par0051	Look, still, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0296par0052	Now, I...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0297par0053	What's wrong with you, brother?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0054	For God's sake! Once, brother...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0297par0055	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0056	...don't be immoral!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0299par0057	I don't know why you're arguing.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0058	He's not talking to me!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0300par0059	He's got a problem, he's got a problem with the iftar.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0060	You're crazy! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0300par0061	There is!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0301par0062	Hakan, shut up!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0063	You're a dirty man, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0302par0064	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0301par0065	Mr. President... please, Mr. President... still, look... he's saying that it's stupid, and it's immoral.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0066	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0303par0067	Mr. President, a congressman can't say that he's an idiot, he has to take it back.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0301par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0298par0069	I didn't say on the stand, I didn't say anything!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0304par0070	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0301par0071	Where didn't you say? Are there any reports here or not?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit07spe0305par0072	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0305par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On the 48th article of the bill, Mr. Fatma Kaplan will speak on the proposal of his friends and freedom. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I promise we won't send you back this time.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0306par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to issue Article 48 (485) of the Bill of Law. I salute the General Assembly. We're here to talk about decisions on certain laws in order to develop industry and support production. In this bill, we fought hand in hand with our people to protect our olive trees. As a result of this struggle, we saved our olive trees from the killers. The other day, the anti-industrial zones were withdrawn, as well as industrial and zoning. In fact, we're at a loss to protect what we can from you, the trees, the animals, the olive groves, the children, the women, the democracy, the republic? If the rule of law in a country has become the law of the superior and grooms; if the independence of the judiciary has become dependent on someone; if justice is the foundation of the strong, how will we improve, how will we improve? You're always beating the worker, doing the next of kin a favor. Look, 619,000 other people joined the unemployed army. The number of people working in agriculture and industry is down. The number of off-the-book employees has exceeded 33 per cent. Our rate of business accidents has been increasing and has been pining for justice for 15 years. In our country where justice and law have been massacred so much, the march we started for justice in Ankara Security Park is today the third day. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who said no to injustice, exploitation, palace in 1919, and the Republican People's Party and Republican lovers, lovers of justice, who said no to the same injustice and court regime in 2017. Those who once called patriotic soldiers traitors by plots, who once met with the PKK, who sat at the table and tried to negotiate, who once made heroes of journalists who brought luggage and documents, are now trying to label us traitors. Not to mention the return of Mr. Fetullah Hodja, the transition from Assad to Esed, a few angry young men who turned into terrorists. Now our congressman, Enis Berberoglu, has been sentenced to twenty-five years without evidence and without housing. The entire government, unfortunately, is working for the interests of one person by his judgment, by his administration, by his conduct. However, one hour of justice is better than one year of worship. You've already lost your charity. We're tired of criminals who are released because their backs are intact, and we're tired of the desperation of people who rot in jail for nothing, and we're tired of raping little children and reading the news of those who are released, and women who are victims of violence who take refuge in the law, so justice has become our greatest longing. There is a name of justice, but there is no judgment, and we are doing an honorable, virtuous march for food, for bread, for democracy, for peace, for all the rights of our citizens. But as it turns out, the waged white trolls are trying to create the perception that the main opposition leader could be the reason for the country's division. As if it wasn't enough, don't be surprised if Justice of the AKP invites you to a place tomorrow. What judgment? Conspiracy? Court prosecutors with instructions? This is a public threat, and after that, our president, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, is responsible for all the negatives that could have happened to him. These are the ones who made the threats, dear friends. They think they're always threatening to stay in power, but they're wrong. One day, that justice will come to this country, and we will not forget these days. We will continue to defend justice against the power of lies. We will destroy injustice with justice, and all that remains of today will be those who resist for tomorrow. I'd like to end my words with the poetry lines of the late Blunt Ecevit. In the poem of the late Bulent Ecevit, it says: ▪ The sun in the day, the field in the sun, How well the ears match the field! A man to the head of wheat and wheat to the wheat, How excellent is the effort that has followed man! The heart to act in action, How well love suits the heart. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0307par0024	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 49: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be changed in order to come before the statement to the ministry. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the second article of Article 15 of Law 4562, which has been replaced with Article 49 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettin Bayır Erkan Aydın Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of Article 49 of the Dair Law Bill to Amendments in Some Laws and Laws, with the aim of the development of industry number 485 and Supporting Production. "The first sentence of Article 49-4562 of Article 15 of the Law was added to the first sentence "in the first week of the month following the declaration of the ministry, and the following joke was added to the same article after its first joke. "The Parsal unit costs are calculated by the total industrialisation of the total amount of investment costs, the cost of publicisation, infrastructure construction, treatment facilities in OSB's accounting records, which have been completed and run by completion of its infrastructure, as well as the amount of current expenditures related to investments, as well as the amount set by Law 213, which is updated to the total industrial area. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Open his mind Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. It's Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Deputy Heromarash who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0308par0056	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on the motion on Article 49 of Bill 485. I salute the General Assembly. Our motion is that we think it would be appropriate to remove the 25 per cent limitation in the parsel cost account in organised industrial areas, in view of market conditions. That's why we're asking for support in our motion. Mr. President, the Minister of National Education was just sitting here, of course, everyone called our Minister of Industry, but you said education was the basis of my production. Really, I'm saying education is the basis of everything. Now, I'd like to bring up a few things about education. Of course, our Minister of Industry is not separate from education, and if half is here, half is related to education. Now, by the way, by the way, I ask for God's mercy and patience for the death of his mother to Uður Bayraktutan, our MP of Artvin. I have a memory of Uður Bey, and I'd like to tell that to the CHP friends. Of course, Uður Bey's uncle is a man who raised Uður Bey. Turgut Flagtutan was the principal of the teacher's school, and he was our principal. We've got a lot of work to do. I'd like to start by reading here a student's memory of Turgut Bey. I study as a teacher in the 2nd grade. There are three days of holidays at Republic Day. I want to spend this vacation in my village, I need permission. It takes courage to approach and speak to our principal, Turgut Bayraktutan. I wrote my petition, and I waited for our manager at his door. He finished his lesson and came back, but he looked so tough. I waited for him to sit down. I gave my petition with care and fear. In his reading, he had passed the word "a," which he tore up my petition, and he threw it into the room piece by piece. While I was collecting pieces of my petition, he was walking around the room angry, angry, saying, "Let's go!" I picked up the pieces of paper, put them in my pocket, and I left his room angry. I bought my ticket at Korzul. I started waiting for the next bus. I was very angry, too. While waiting for the bus in Korzul, the student arrived. He seemed to be calling someone. The principal tore up a student's petition asking for permission today, and told me not to come until he found her. He asked me, "Do you know who she is?" I started to get scared, but I couldn't help but tell the truth. I said it's me. I said it's me. I'm waiting for the bus, and now the bus will come, and I'll go. I know the student on duty, a friend I was close to. He took me to school begging for help. The student on duty knocked on the front door of the master's office, came in, explained the situation. The roaring manager was gone, replaced by a fatherly manager. He listened to me, apologized for his mistake, thanked me for collecting the pieces of the petition he tore up, wrote my own request, gave me a week off. He said, "If you don't have any money, I'll give it to you." I have money, I don't want it, thank you. He said to say hello to your mother and father. I came running to Korzul, got in the car and returned to my village. I think education needs such fatherly directors, executives. I pray for God's mercy to our precious principal, and to Mr. Uður's uncle, and to the man who raised him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Madam Secretary, of course, I brought some students' report cards here, middle school student, and I'd like to present you with some examples of these. Out of 17 courses, the average student who is weak is passing the class. This is the system that is being implemented today, and the lessons that are weak in secondary school and the lessons that are 7 are extremely important. Like what? It's like Turkish literature, history, mathematics, chemistry, foreign language. In addition, another student averages with an average of 53.68, because the average of easy courses is high, even though seven of them are weak. Plus, eight out of 17 classes are weak, with a class average. Again, out of 15 courses, eight of them are weak, and the average student passes his class. There are those who are in charge of one course. I just want to say, time is running out, of course, so we can't raise quality students, that's number one. And secondly, I want you to be sure to tell our Minister of National Education, which I was going to tell him, so that we could sample it in industrial vocational schools -- I mentioned it at the CIT meeting -- we're appointing a religious ethics teacher. That's wrong. The middleman is extremely important in Turkey. What are you saying, unemployed man? He's got no qualifications. But let's make the religious ethics teacher the general manager, let's make him head of the department, but let's not make him principal of the industry vocational high school for God's sake. Turkey will suffer a great deal of damage. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0309par0068	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the second article of Article 15 of Law 4562, which has been replaced with Article 49 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Erkan Aydın wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0310par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan's mother died today, and I wish her my condolences and God's mercy on her mother. The name of the law is the Development of Industry and Support of Production. A big book like this, 102 articles. And we've been talking about it for about a week. Now, let's see if industry and production are growing on paper pencils with these words here, or whether they're practically looking for something else. First of all, the Minister of National Education was just here, before you, Mr. Secretary -- both industry and production all over the world, and education. Where does the training start? It starts with an investigative, inquisitor, non-memorizing, non-recogniser, constant-questioning educational system. How about us? Let's memorize everything. Here, the TEOG exam has 17,000th, but when you look at the country, it's 42nd place among the 70 countries in many matters. Consider the world's examples. If you've seen the news this evening, a 10-year-old Japanese boy has developed five appps at an Apple firm event. He also entered the iPhones with five apps, or programs, and became the main topic of the event, the speaker. Look, he's 10. We have so many students, so many grown-ups, we can't find a single sample that goes in here. Besides, an 81-year-old Chinese citizen. This one also wrote a program for the iPhone, started using computers when he was 61 years old, and came out here at 81 years old as a speaker for writing a program. So, what do we do to help them develop? We're ruining justice -- that's what we all see. We're taking the law, we're taking freedom to our will, we're taking it from our point of view, we're giving it away. If you call it unregistered unemployment at 33 percent, the unemployment figures from two days ago are in the middle, 3,600,000 jobless people and countries who have given up their jobs, a Turkey painting that has given up hope from tomorrows, but the ruling lawmakers who come up here are drawing such a beautiful pink painting that it's almost as if we're going to be living in space in a few months, and now we're going to be living in Mars. It's like, if you put this makeup on Somalia, in Somalia, people will die of obesity, but what's the truth? People are starving in Somalia. I mean, this kind of pushing, this kind of painting, the truth, unfortunately, is hiding from our great nation. So, what are we supposed to do? To do that, we have only one recipe for salvation, and together, as one, we need to go back to the process of immediate normalisation of the opposition of power; we need to immediately go back to democracy, not to the law of the superior, but to the rule of law. The Minister of National Education also said today that he spoke of the articles of the Constitution, but when he read them, he did not say that someone in accordance with the Articles of the same Constitution said that he would answer for it. And when our vice president said it was Free Private, he wiped his forehead like this. So we need to think that justice is necessary for all of us, because it's not sustainable, how much longer this tension can take the country, no one can predict. So there's a country that's constantly going backwards in every democratic criteria abroad, in the economic criteria, and this has to be the way out of this great House. We all have to get together and figure it out, so if we can't go out here and talk about the interests of the people and say it out loud and come up with a solution, then there's really not much left to do after it's too late. I say: Listen to this voice so that Turkey doesn't drown in any more darkness. There are many of us; we raise our hands, we do what we want. When you say, "Maybe things are solved on paper," but in reality, in the street, in public, it's not solved. So, for the last time, listen to this call. I salute you all, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0311par0093	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0312par0096	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit08spe0311par0097	I'll make your call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Engin, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Akstar, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Atici, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Topal, Mr. Pir, Mr. Kürkcü. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0311par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 49 of the Law Bill 485, there was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Bursa MP Erkan Aydın and his friends' motion. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 485. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Mr. Elitaş, you have a request for a statement according to Article 60, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0313par0018	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan's Reverend Mother has received her dues today. We ask God's mercy for the deceased. We extend our condolences to Uður Bayraktutan and his family as the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0311par0020	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Secretary, you have a request for the 60th Amendment, so I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. President. They've just asked a question for CHP Group Deputy Chairman and MP Manisa of the MPHP Group. I just got off the phone with our Minister, and it's true, something like that happened. Both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of National Defence are investigating the incident, and our National Minister of Defence is currently on his way to Manisa. I'll get back to you when it's clear. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0314par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0311par0029	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0314par0031	Mr. President, we thank the Minister and the Minister who went to Manisa. We need to get serious about this. There's a video of our Manisa MP sharing; the soldiers say we're being poisoned, and when we get back, we're getting beaten up. You're going home, and we're getting beat up, and why did you go, and why did you do that? And a beating in the barracks is unacceptable at a time like this. Mr. President, I've actually asked for word on another matter I consider very important, and the Minister's statement has arrived. It just came out to the press, and he called the consultants, and we got confirmation. Mr. Enis Berberoglu's picture on the Turkish Grand National Assembly website has been removed; the UN code has been cancelled for the access of the I.T.C. code for the canceled cards. There's no fallout from the legislature, there's a violation of the Constitution. Parliament is expected to solve this problem, but it has an irrational attitude towards our MP, Parliament. We request that this matter be investigated and briefed the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0315par0038	Mr. Special, the matter has come to me, but it has arrived with chapter one. Mr. Enis Berberoglu's photo or background on the Turkish Grand National Assembly website has been removed. On top of that, I myself tried the iPhone, and I asked my friends in the Law and Decisions Office. We've seen that when it's entered from the computer, the resume, the photo is as it is, and when it's entered from a brand phone, the resume and the photo can be displayed the same way, but when it's accessed from another brand cell phone, it can't be seen as a self-portrait. So, I talked to my friends about the solution, and I got some information from the relevant unit, which said that because some photos are more than the size of the intended size, some cell phones have come up with this information that they can't see that photo. We'll have our friends do that as soon as possible. Mr. Berberoğlu's parliamentary position is not over. I don't know what else you're talking about, but I'm learning from you right now. I'm getting information from you that the access cards and BEM codes have been canceled, and I'm going to look into that, too.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0314par0039	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0315par0043	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be changed in order to come before the statement to the ministry. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: It is intended to correct the rotating sentence that will occur if the change is made in the current form. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 49th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 49th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 50: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of Article 4562 of Law No. 5 of Article 17 of Article 17 of the Law shall be changed by the Council of Higher Planning, which shall be held under Article 1562 of the Law under Article 50. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration be added after the declaration of the Law, which is in Article 50 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The title for the governors is a word that is often used by the wealthy of the OSB. The governor is part of a delegation of entrepreneurs to represent political authority. His position is not an institution that requires additional income. In some provinces, there are more than 10 digits of OSB. Given that the governor will receive peace from all of these OSBs, the OSBs will be the biggest income for governors. The reference to KHK No. 631 determines that a public official should be paid for only one of his internal and external duties. Different practices and conflicts may be involved in implementing this clause according to the provinces. Therefore, it must be ruled that the governors will not be granted peace under this clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of Article 4562 of Law No. 5 of Article 17 of Article 17 of the Law shall be changed by the Council of Higher Planning, which shall be held under Article 1562 of the Law under Article 50. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mustafa Ali Balbay has asked about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Balbay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Sarıbal runs, and you run to the stand.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0316par0090	Mr. President, I've come from Redcahamam. We've finished the hero-winner chapter. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I stand before you on the 3rd day of the Justice March between the Kahraman and the Redcoat. Yeah, we're looking for justice. One of the sources of justice, law is the people. Those who have studied law science, who are a little interested, will see that one of the main sources of justice is the demands of the people. Throughout our walk of justice, I sincerely say, there have been protestors from time to time, there have been signs of Rabia, but many of you have come to us and walked for us. We can't raise our voices, so please keep walking. Many parts of Anatolia also said they would join the support march in the coming days. Izmir has already started this morning, and they will come to Istanbul step by step. Congressmans, justice is one of the most sacred concepts. Look at our recent history -- I don't say world history -- no extraordinary period is remembered with justice; no 1950s, the 1960s, the 1970s, the 1980s, no extraordinary period, nor will this period be remembered. You'll see, today's illegal practices will not be found on the pages of history, not much, but in the near future, many of today's publications will have to do the opposite of today's publications. Members of parliament, Mustafa Balbay's decision issued by the Constitutional Court on 4 December 2013 has often been voiced on this bench. I didn't want to go into too much detail because it was a decision of my own, but at the moment that came today, I'd like to share a few points with you as well. That decision was 141 articles, and in essence, the decision made in 2013 did not apply to the local court of the period, and the decision made on December 4th was carried out on December 9th. The local court said, "We will not decide." He said, "We will listen to the prosecutor." He said, "But on December 9th, he made this decision at 19.10. Dear lawmakers, one of the judges today who persisted in implementing that decision, but who applied it on the 5th day, is under arrest and one is on the run abroad. Here is today's reflection of the day's law; again, the issue of arrested MPs remains, but the Constitutional Court's decision stands there. We will continue our march of justice until justice comes, but we will demand justice for everyone. He was arrested today. I said from this bench: "Why is the infidel inside?" We don't say, "Why are thousands of people under arrest?" Half of the first page of yesterday's daily Haberturk was Erdoğan's statement that there would be no such law. The other half was Kemal Kilicdaroglu's, our President's president's statement of justice for everyone. Because we are an unfair investigation of our security forces in America, we oppose it and want justice for them. (Applause) Congressmans, until our path is brought to justice, but you come, turn this way, the road is indeed closer. Right now, the people who attended this march were there for justice, at the beginning, in the middle, at the end, trying to talk to everyone who came, at least one third had nothing to do with any party. On behalf of thousands, we thank you for such a march. There were thousands of businessmen -- look, businessmen -- industrialists, relatives of prisoners, relatives of government officials who were still on duty. Right now, it's a little obvious what the concept of justice means to you. From time to time, you greet such quests with ridicule, but our search for justice will continue for everyone, for everyone, and you will see that extraordinary situations will not be called good in any way today, as they did in the recent past. Come, I say turn when the road is near, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0317par0098	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 50 is accepted. Mr. Special, you've just shared information with the Court and the General Assembly that you've been denied vehicle access to Parliament with the code of our İstanbul MP, Mr. Enis Berberoglu, code for the I.T.E.C. code. Now my friends from the bureaucracy have spoken to our friend, the head of operations. They said that there was absolutely nothing wrong with the vehicle's access card, that the car's access cards were still valid. The I.T. code has also been checked, which has been stated to be valid.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0318par0105	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0317par0106	Congressmans, Mr. Special has provided me with information that has been sent to him.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0319par0107	Let him look into it and bring it up.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0317par0108	He's brought me up with a resume before. Our job is to study them. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0319par0110	Don't bring it up without research.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0317par0111	Dear Private...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0114	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0319par0115	Run it again and bring it up!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0116	Right now, Enis Berberoglu is writing and looking at the news in the last day, on the website, on the website, on the website.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0319par0117	It's a lie!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0118	He's had numerous phone calls, and he's reached out to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0319par0119	Move with the phones!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0120	It's my job to say it, and it didn't open when I came in myself.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0321par0121	The Speaker's newspaper is lying, it's a lie!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0122	Friends, if one of your MPs goes to prison one day, your constituents will call and remove the picture. If he says, bury him in your insides, I hope you don't tell the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0322par0123	Look it up, look it up!
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0320par0124	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0323par0125	Thank you, Mr. Special. There are two motions on Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 4562 of Article 18 of Law No. 4562, which is held with Article 51 of the Law on Development of Industry and Supporting Production, we propose and propose that the declaration of "principals" shall be changed as"principals. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Bayır Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tahsin Tarhan Mustafa Ali Balbay Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to the Ministry that the declaration "in the first week of the month following the dedication, " in the first week of the month, in Article 51 of the Common Law Bill 485. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. The right to comment on the motion will be used by İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0324par0152	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm afraid Turkey's agenda is elsewhere today, while the House's agenda is elsewhere. An arrest that leads all parts of Turkey to a mutual debate and excitement; a protest that started after Enis Berberoglu was imprisoned, and a series of debates stemmed from Turkey's agenda, and Turkey is being debated all over the world, and that's where the idea of Turkey is happening. But I don't think the House is paying enough attention to it. We need to take care of it and find a cure. Now, the first thing we've talked about is the process of Enis Berberoglu being imprisoned, the legal aspect of this, how the process took place in court, we've talked about all of this. There is a widespread belief that this is a result in which there is no justice to be explained. And since he didn't pass the Supreme Court, no one can say, "It's certain, it's final." No, neither does this. What's happening is that only, and only only the most severe measure that can be taken when it doesn't really need to be taken is to put a congressman in jail. There's a general notion that there's been a mistake here. At least he's right, he's right, he's right, he's right. I've never seen anyone say anything worse, except the President of the Justice and Development Party. Now, the second issue is that there is a reaction from the Republican People's Party, the party that has been put in prison and the millions who voted for this party -- close to 30 per cent of those who have the right to vote in Turkey today. People here think there's injustice here, there's injustice here, and there's an inadmissibility where politics is involved, and they're walking. Now, basically, what is expected in a democratic government is that every citizen deserves to walk. Come on, we'll secure your walk. There's nothing else a government can call a democratic government, but what do we hear from Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, and from the President? That this march is extremely dangerous, that the public order is upside down, that this has to stop, that justice can't be searched on the street. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has argued on this issue following the travel events, including Turkey, and said: "We will register that freedom of meeting and demonstration is a fundamental right in a democracy, including irregular and unauthorized protests, in which the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees Article 11 of the Article 11 of the Convention of Human Rights, and is a permanent element of the ECHM hearings. Now, therefore, if the standard is here, it is not possible for you to stand here, but more importantly, the President says: these remind me of the President of the 11th article of the Court of Human Rights. He said: "You can't wear out the roads by walking, you can't cross the roads by walking. " Of course, that's what you say when you talk about history and the lack of knowledge of language. In fact, Solomon Demirel said in his promise that he had been distorted by his qualms, and therefore returned to him repeatedly: "Power of power is not the power to take a stick in his hand, but the power to uphold the right and law of a citizen. The country needs peace and quiet, and our country is in motion. That's why there's going to be some discomfort. We should never lose our temper because there are demonstrations. The streets don't get old, they get tired. In both talks between Süleyman Demirel and Recep Tayyip Erdogan in terms of streets and march, there is no other resemblance except that it passes through the street and through the road. Therefore, if the Clave is to produce results, it would be wise for Solomon to reflect more carefully on the words of Demirel. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0325par0160	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of Article 4562 of Article 18 of Article 18 of Law No. 51 of the Law shall be changed as the first to be changed by the Law on Development of Industry and Support of Production. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mustafa Ali Balbay has asked about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0326par0173	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there has just been an earthquake in İzmir, no loss of life or property, all our comfort. We wish our countrymen well. We also spoke to our brother Uður Flagtutan, but we also ask his mother's blessings and all her relatives. Guys, I told you about this Balbay decision and its contents in chapter one. The Constitutional Court, which made that decision, is still in office, but I shared that one of the judges and prosecutors who resisted that decision five days later was currently on the run in Kandira Prison, and one of them was also on the run abroad. That decision was 141, and the first clause of that decision... is often discussed in the public opinion: that the MPs now have a responsibility to your election after they've been elected. Congressman should be tried without arrest. If the prisoner is tried, he will not be able to carry out his responsibility to the voters who elected him, so the voters will be punished. This is a very important concept of national will, which you value very much, which is part one. But in the second part of that decision, lawmakers, there's the same sentence: "Curity is fundamental, arrest is exception." But today we see that it's the opposite. The justice march, which is now entering its 3rd day, had several portraits, one of which was Rizeli Veysel Kılıç, 68 years old. The other day, because of the arrest of the 2nd-grade student's son, the Air Harp School, it was a meeting day at Silivri Prison, and he didn't go on this march, and he had nothing to do with any party directly, and in general elections, he usually voted for the Welfare Party in the past, but voted for the Republican People's Party in local elections. In very harsh terms, he told us all the way through today's illegality. If you'd like to hear it... you've knocked on your door, you haven't opened it. Another person along the way...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0327par0177	I listened. I know him well, I listened. I know him well, I listened.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0326par0178	It's pretty clear what they're telling us. The MPs are an industrialist from Izmir. He says if he gets credit, he'll hire 20 workers in the first slice, 30 workers in the second slice, but he said that he wasn't only given credit because of his political views, that he wrote to the President, and he sent me a copy, if you'd like, I can pass it on to you. Congressmans, I'm going to say that this march of justice initiated by the Republican People's Party... yes, Enis Berberoglu has bled our hearts out. Enis Berberoglu's arrest has bled the hearts of all who have a little respect for the right to receive information, including 12 million people who are currently voting for the Republican People's Party in Turkey, but our search for justice is for everyone. At the moment, journalists, judges, prosecutors are being charged with such indictments that... they sent you a copy of the copies that came to us, and you didn't take some of them, and they're turning them down at the door. Right now, of course, because we're going through an extraordinary period in Turkey, the safety and safety of goods and lives come to mind, but on top of that comes another concept of security, law enforcement. Today may not be such a problem for you, but believe me, the security of law is on the agenda of people in Turkey as well as the security of lives and property that we see from entrepreneurs who are just along the way, who come to us, who are face-to-face. Today, in the continuation of the concept of law enforcement, there is safety of the exam, safety of the work, everything, but as important as safety of the law, safety of the lives and property. As a poet once said, justice is the bread of the people. You may eat the bread three meals a day, but justice may be needed more often. So in this extraordinary period that we've been through today, if a main opposition party leader is looking for justice on the road, it's your responsibility first of all. It is necessary for you to pause and think and say, "What have we done? ' Once again, I'm telling you to come back from the State of Emergency when the road is near. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0328par0183	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0329par0187	Mr. President, thank you. Well, there's a lot of words to be said, but the law has to pass, of course, but I have to underline one thing. Because of his political opinion, I would strongly decline an assessment that he was not given a loan because the terms of the loan are clear, the criteria are clear. In no way is there a political opinion among them, a situation of credit for this. If a person can't get a loan, they can either take it from the bank or there'll be an application within the Credit Guarantee Fund. If he's keeping the criteria here, he can't take it, he can't get it, but if that's how he describes it to himself, I don't think I'm right to come in here and explain it to him as if it's an app like it's happening here. Will the economy be for all of us, in our political opinion? Both the People's Party and the AK PARTY will all contribute, produce, employ, and Turkey will grow. What kind of narrow-mindedness is that? I strongly deny it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0330par0191	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0193	It's a one-on-one tease.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0330par0194	In what sentence?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0195	I'd like to start with a personal view of...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0330par0196	There was no teasing until the last word, there was teasing in the last word. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0200	Congressmans, I don't want this to get too messy, but I've told you to share with you how serious the concept of justice has become in Turkey and the feeling that I'm facing a very serious injustice in all parts.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0332par0201	You gave the wrong example, the wrong example, the wrong example.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0202	If I had time, I would also say that even many college students, those who have not won the exam in the past, go to a place like this, where all the questions in the last decade have been stolen, and what will we do if they are stolen in the coming period? A 15-year-old student asked me about it, asked me about the route.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0333par0203	Is that why we got 17,000 TEOG winners? Most of the dates were in the east. You want to clear the past.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0204	Mr. Kerem Ali kept saying, "Can you give me your name and phone number?" I'll give it to him, and I'll tell him about the letter he delivered. I have heard the like of it in Focha, and I have heard it in Payer.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0334par0205	You've listened to people who don't have credit, people who don't have credit.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0331par0206	Again, look, lawmakers, if it's wrong, say it's wrong, but I'll tell you the name of the person and tell you what field he's operating in. Injustice is unfortunately reflected in all areas of Turkey, but in all areas. Turkey is not even a law state anymore. Believe me, we knew that during September 12th, there was a period of coup, and this law will be passed, and now we don't know what law to enforce. For example, here was the trial of our dear brother Enis Berberoglu, who began with revealing classified documents. On the way, they said: "This is in fact treason." They added it. The last thing they said was, "Yahu, there's a spy on top of it." For God's sake, can this be it? An indictment three times, along the road, put it together first, then separate it; friends, you've turned it into a suction pump. First you combine Enis Berberoglu's case, then you separate and decide. Please ask a conscience, don't insult me, ask your conscience.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0334par0209	Judgement, judgment.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0335par0210	Thank you, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0336par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0335par0212	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0336par0213	Mr. President, gossip and gossip don't make politics. Ahmet-Mehmet comes to us every day and says a lot of things, and he comes out and says to me every day, Ahmet came to me, "Can we share this?" We're waiting from Mr. Balbay, and let this friend bring us legal initiatives about not giving him a loan because of his political opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0335par0215	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0337par0216	Mr. Balbay, let him listen to the parents of the 249 martyrs. You're gonna listen to 2,190 veterans, the vets with their missing arms, and you're gonna talk to them here.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0335par0220	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion was not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 51st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the declaration "to be changed" in Article 52 of the Common Law Bill 485. Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "instruction" of Article 2062 of the Law under Article 52 of the Law Against the Law on the Development of Industry and Supporting Productions is subject to OSB's permission, and we propose and propose that the "instruction of the declaration be changed under the permission of the OSB. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettin Bayır Aytüğer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Speaking of motion, Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0338par0243	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 52 of Law Bill 485. I salute the MPs who keep their promises and don't lie to the public. Dear friends, we allow organised industrial areas with Article 52 to build an energy plant without a requirement to start a company. We have no objection to that, we have no problem with that, of course let him generate his own energy, OSB. Let's see the OSBs in Mersin: Mersin is a solar city, and many sites and facilities want to generate their own energy, but in order to give energy to their power lines, they have to pay a substantial amount of money. We've brought this up to you many times, and we've said that the citizen wants to produce his own energy, but you've blocked your ears. I mean, what do you call the citizen? Why don't you make your energy, brother? Because you want to condemn us to nuclear energy. If you don't want to condemn us to nuclear energy, let the citizen generate his energy from the sun in his own website, in his own home, in his own business. The whole world is giving up the nuclear power plant, and you're making Turkey a nuclear dump through Mersin. Look, guys, the nuclear issue is serious. In your international agreements, especially with Russia, you have signed a nuclear agreement without writing the answer to the question, which has not yet been settled with a country with which we are having heavy problems. Tomorrow, these nuclear materials will become a nuclear dump here, and believe me, the AKP's children will have cancer, the CHP's children, the CHP's and the MP's, the HDP's and any political opinion that there is no group here, the children of all faith will have cancer. I'm not just saying this, but the literature that's in international literature says that even though it's not a nuclear accident, there's 2.2 times the probability of blood cancer in children living around these facilities. So I invite you to be serious, and I say that you should give up this love. Dear friends, Mersin is a hard worker, the 6th in paying taxes, the 7th in order of service is reduced to the 25th and 30th in the purchase of service. Mersin works, produces, pays taxes, but can't get service from the AKP government. Mersin's industrialist is hardworking, has completed two OSBs, is setting up the third organised industrial district, has made an attempt on the 4th organized industrial district. He expects you to sell us the treasured land at the right price. Don't worry, sell it, we'll do the rest. The Mersinian industrialist has established two major industrial areas in Tarsus on food and agriculture. What more do you want from this industrialist? We're ready for the automotive industry. They call it the automotive industry. Look, there are ports in Mersin, three universities, hard-working industrialists, hard-working people. We're ready for automotive industry: they call it. Any movement? No. You're just making words. Organised industrial region says: "Yahu, my brother, I am producing, connect me to the port of Mersin, and bind me to the free zone of Mersin. You do not bind me." Tie me to the highway, and I'll send what I've done to the Middle East. You don't do that either. You're hurting Mersin. Don't cast a shadow, he doesn't want any more favors. Look, Mersin has the Port of Seka, he needs it badly, you have privatized this port of Mersin. All right, come on, whatever. You've privatized the harbor and its background. Now, it was done with a cheer, and you let it go, and you put Sekah's background up for sale. Who's gonna buy it? He can't have an industrialist from Mersin, someone from outside Mersin will take this port to the address. And the farmer of Mersin and his business man say in the cities of organized industry: I am a victim, and I am not able to pay my debts, and I am not able to pay my debts, and give me an extension. And because of you, he can't do business, and now he can't pay again. Please remove your hand from Mersin. We don't want anything else from you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0339par0251	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "equivocalization" in Article 52 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed into" part of the law. " Erdal Atash (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: With change, it is intended to better understand matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 52nd article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "unconcerned " in Article 53 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed into" unconcerned. " Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan İmam Taşçıer Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of Article 21 of Law No. 4562, which has been replaced with Article 53 of Law Bill 485, which is currently in session, should be changed in the following way. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Yakup Akkaya Tacettin Bayır "OSB corporate personality and economic enterprises are exempted from stamp tax, advertising and advertising tax, bank and insurance treatment tax, motor transportation tax, image, judicial fees, and all tuition tax due to all activities, business and the income specified in Article 12 of the Law. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Asked about the motion, Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0340par0288	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is where we discuss a bill for the development of industry, but when we look at this bill, we see that there is no regulation for the development of industry. But what does the Ministry of Industry really have to do? Making policies about the development of industry. Instead, he's dealing with NGOs who have given up their jobs, the Department of Industry. We all need to know that the industry will not develop by dealing with the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures is filing a criminal complaint against the Turkish Chamber of Chemistry; the prosecution does not first accept the criminal complaint. Instead, he then appeals to the court to relieve the administration of the room. The first trial was held on 15 June 2017. Claiming to have changed the coup laws, the AKP is seeking to undermine the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, seeking protection from coup laws. Dear lawmakers, it is against the ILO Convention and international agreements that the administrative and financial audits of non-state institutions, organisations, trade unions should be carried out by the state. Therefore, for example, provisions concerning the control of unions by the Ministry of Labor have been lifted because the new regulations include regulations for outside control of trade unions. Under oath counseling rooms and trade unions are audited, and they are also available to all members on the websites of the unions. The Ministry of Chemical Engineers has repeatedly been asked about the procedure and the basis for auditing of the relevant ministry, but no valid response has been given by the Ministry. The room therefore turned down the Ministry's request for control, as administrative and financial audit institutions must be determined by the law under the Constitution. All the records of the room have already been published on the financial site, and all members are known to be open to public access. Dear MPs, the Ministry has insisted on conducting this inspection on the basis of its own Employment Board regulations. It's only in tribal states that we try to control an institution that doesn't have a public institution under such regulations. Naturally, he refused to impose. The Ministry has dropped the job, filed a complaint against the room. The D.A.'s office has denied the charges. Not only was the ministry suing the state's resources for its political purposes, but its real purpose was also revealed because it had made it a habit to sacrifice its human resources to its political interests. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, which are established with constitutional assurances and are the public institution, has become the target of the Rant environments because the Union of Engineers and Architects and connected rooms have criticised the country's policies on the field of vocational practice, scientific fundamentally, and have waged a necessary legal struggle. The lawsuits the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures has launched with the principle of public benefit for privatisation projects are likely to disturb anyone in its efforts to protect the public, the labor, the natural and historical environment. For years, you've initiated various laws to suppress the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures in one way or another, but engineers have left no shoes on your attack. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures is the country's breathing and breathing zone. I'm saying that this country and the people of this country need the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures and their rooms. Take your hands off architects because NGOs, unions are the indispensable institutions of democracy; let them live, strengthen them so that our democracy can grow stronger, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0341par0296	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "unconcerned" in Article 53 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed into "unconcerned." Ahmet Yıldırım (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Imam Taşçıer wants to talk about the motion, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0342par0309	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party to develop industry and support production on Article 53 of Law Bill 485. Turkey has had a long-known economic crisis. Production's down, employment needs up, and he's at the bottom, so he's shown a lot of reductions. That's why unemployment has risen to record. In the economy, consumers and producers watch the lowest levels of trust. Development agencies established earlier to reduce regional development differences began to co-ordinate with the State Planning Agency, the current Ministry of Development, starting in 1989. As we look between 1989 and 2016, some of these projects have been implemented, but we also see that these projects have not been successful. When we look at success rates, unemployment has risen to an extent and life conditions have become difficult day by day. Now, under the name of the capitol centers, a program has been tried and not been successful. The centers of attraction include 23 provinces that have not developed or developed less. Diyarbakir is one of the cities that enters the attraction centers. The budget for Diyarbakır is $1.1 billion, but employers demand over 30 or 40 billion to improve the attraction centre. There's no infrastructure even for that $1.1 billion split. Departed land and infrastructure are very inadequate. Other cities are not so different from these, the land has no infrastructure, and electricity and water problems are as high as they can go. According to 2017, the total population of 23 cities is 12.4 million. This population corresponds to 16 per cent of Turkey's population. The contribution of these 23 provinces to Turkey's economy is only 7 per cent. Only 2.3 per cent of 23 counties share in Turkish exports. The unemployment rate is 11.3 per cent throughout Turkey, while over 22 per cent in 23 cities. These figures tell us that when the industrialists are replicated and sunk... it looks like there's going to be a study at these attraction centers. What we need is social peace first. If peace, security and peace were present in Turkey, social peace and tolerance were dominated, a democratic government in Turkey was in charge, a democratic climate if, believe me, industrialisation would develop spontaneously in most of the 23 cities mentioned, industrialists would develop industry by taking advantage of the smallest contributions the state could offer, reducing unemployment. According to today's figures, the population of Diyarbakır is around 1,650,000. Diyarbakır has a very young population. Over 500,000 young people between the ages of 0 and 24 live in Diyarbakır. That's a very big number. If these young people don't already have jobs, if industry doesn't develop in this province, you can think ahead, how will 500,000 young people between the ages of 0 and 24 live, what will he do, how will he survive? We'll see about that. The Kurdish problem, as everyone knows, comes at the very beginning of issues in Turkey that need to be resolved. It is also impossible for democracy to come to Turkey unless this problem is resolved. That is, with the immediate removal of the State of Emergency and the establishment of a democratic climate -- first steps. The President of the AKP, the current President, always boasted that he had lifted the State of Emergency in 2003, but now, not only in Diyarbakır, but in the region, all of Turkey is governed by the State of Emergency, it must quickly be lifted and ensure democratic stability. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0343par0318	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 53 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on the Development of Industry and Support of Productions, which is currently in the current 485 rows, and the amendment of the Law on the Amendment to Laws under some Laws, shall be made to be changed and proposed to be "unintended" in Article 22 of Law No. 4562, under Article 22 of Law No. 22 of Law. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici İrfan Bakır Tacettin Bayır Aytüğer Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the "noxane" of Article 54 of the Common Law Bill 485 shall be changed in the form "exclusively. " Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: A change is intended to better understand matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on the Development of Industry and Support of Productions, which is currently in the current 485 rows, and the amendment of the Law on the Amendment to Laws under some Laws, shall be made to be changed and proposed to be "unintended" in Article 22 of Law No. 4562, under Article 22 of Law No. 22 of Law. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Speaking of motion, Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 54 of Law Bill 485. I salute the lawmakers who do not exploit faith. Dear friends, with this clause, our Ministry requires that any information or documents from the organised industrial region be given, which is a good thing. Of course, if any ministry asks for information, documents, of course, we see no problem with that, and we support that. However, someone in this parliament has just made a fool of saying that the Republican People's Party has a problem with the beliefs of the people. Look, friends, the Republican People's Party has never had a problem with the beliefs of our citizens. Who does the Republican People's Party have a problem with? He has a problem with liars. Who does the Republican People's Party have a problem with? He has a problem with those who abuse beliefs. The Republican People's Party has a problem with those who appear to have faith and claim rights. For example, in Ramadan, poor people have trouble finding food to open up their pensions, and they have problems with lawmakers who have decided to make themselves a double salary. The Republican People's Party has a problem with those who reject their own beliefs. The Republican People's Party has a problem with people who tell mosque lies. The Republican People's Party has a problem with people who do and do politics in mosques. Don't you guys have a problem with that? If you don't have a problem with these things, our faith is in great distress. The Republican People's Party has major problems with those who place faith in the state based on faith. Now again, the Republican People's Party has serious problems with those who seek to place AKP members in the state based on faith.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0345par0358	Did you or did you not forbid 18 years of persecution from 1932 to 1950?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0359	The Republican People's Party has a problem with those who commit contract fraud against the public's beliefs.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0345par0360	Did you or did you not forbid 18 years of persecution from 1932 to 1950?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0361	If you don't have a problem with that, I can't tell you anything.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0345par0362	What's your beef with Ezan?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0363	CHP has a problem with those who do wrong in interviews against the public's beliefs.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0345par0364	Did you or did you not forbid the oppressor?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0365	Listen to me carefully. If you don't have a problem with that, thank you, I'm transferring you to the public. I'm telling you what's wrong with us, and if you're uncomfortable, I'm transferring you to the public.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0345par0366	Was there a problem or not? Why did you forbid 18 years?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0346par0367	CHP has a problem with itself. He's got a problem with the public.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0368	The Republican People's Party's sachet against the beliefs...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0346par0369	He's got a problem with himself. Tell him something.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0370	...he has a problem with people who are giving a fancy iftar out of the pouch and trying to benefit commercially and bureaucraticly from it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0347par0371	Have you forbidden the oppressor for 18 years, or have you not forbidden him, from 1932 to 1950?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0372	Why should CHP have a problem with beliefs?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0347par0373	Why did you forbid it? What's your beef with Ezan?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0374	Why are you jumping? We have problems with these things.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0347par0375	Why were you offended by the persecution? Why did you forbid it for 18 years?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0376	If you have no problems, I'll leave you to God and the people.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0347par0377	Yes, it was forbidden from 1932 to 1950.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0348par0378	People know, Hajji, don't worry about it. People know.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0379	The Republican People's Party has a problem with injustices against beliefs, unjust arrests, wrongful expulsions, unfairly exposing public officials, and it will continue to have problems. The Republican People's Party has problems with those who seek unfair revenge and those who try to destroy a part of society, and the problem will continue to grow and increase. I hope you have problems with these people. I hope you'll join us, and we'll fight these corrupts who exploit and exploit our good faith, but if you don't, I'll transfer you to our great nation.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0347par0380	We're not yelling, we're telling the truth.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0344par0381	For this reason, the Republican People's Party has launched a march of justice, the Republican People's Party has launched an honorable march of justice for all kinds of injustice; today we have completed its third day, walked 60km and opened hopes in Turkey, putting peace in the hearts of the people in Turkey. Not only the CHP people in Turkey, but the AKP people in Turkey also say, "God bless you, we also oppose these injustices." Our nation says: 'There is a man who has been corrupted by the AKP, so set up justice for the sake of God before we weigh it.' Thank you for your hands, your hearts, your feet. You're not just walking for your congressman, you're walking for all injustices, and we hope that your march brings justice to Turkey. I bow to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0349par0384	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 54 is accepted.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0350par0387	Mr. President, I need a minute...
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0349par0388	Mr. Balbay, what did you ask for, sir?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0350par0389	I'd like to tell you about my position on what happened earlier.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0349par0390	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0351par0391	What's this about?
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0352par0392	Name it. You said it was the person who got permission to name it.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0353par0395	Thank you, Mr. President. I gave that sample because it was part of the production package that we talked about. I just called that person after Mr. Bostanci's evaluation. His name is Hakkı Alaca. He gave me a recap on the phone. I asked if I could give your phone to Izmir MP Kerem Ali Continuum, the Justice and Development Party. He said, "You can give it to me." Even here, even the people of that party will know what kind of people we are, what a respectable production we are in the industry. We didn't get the credit we deserved, we didn't steal, we didn't leave the door. I'll give this phone to Mr. Constant. In the General Assembly, to me, because there are taunts... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ▪ He used the word "Gossipistic." I felt the need to inform you.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0354par0399	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. There's a motion on Article 55 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 4562 of Law No. 4562 of Article 23 of Article 23 of the Law on Development of Industry and Supporting Production, we propose and propose that the declaration be replaced by ▪ Ministry of Ministers. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Fatma Kaplan Freedom Tacettitin Bayır İrfan Bakır Does the Commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. It's Fatma Kaplan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0355par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a promise on Bill 485. We're trying to improve the industry here. Of course, each party group has its own opinion. But so far, it's obvious, and unfortunately, the intentions are obvious, and we've always smelled of rant. The insistence on olive groves in particular has made it so obvious that it has revealed everything. We're trying to develop industry, but we're missing the human factor, the most important factor in industry. I'm afraid the money was more important in business than the person. Although you say there has been a decline in business accidents, at least 1,970 workers died while working in 2016, according to Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Security Assembly data. At least 112 workers lost their lives in December 2013, while in December 2014, the number increased to 127, at least 137, in December 2015. In December 2016, it became 141. You see, unfortunately, we have to give up our people in your power as statistics. The only way to correct our country's bad record in business accidents is to take a serious, sincere political stance on working life, but unfortunately your sincerity is evident. In connection with Articles 85 and 86 of the Law Charter Against Some Law and Law Laws on Development of Industry and Support of Productions, the obligation to employ occupational safety specialists and workplace physicians in public workplaces and workplaces will be postponed to 1 July 2020. This will only increase the deaths of workers. The Law on Health and Safety No. 6331 came out on June 6, 2012, five years later, but more than 3,000 of our people died during that time. In 2012, however, the main goal of the Law on Health and Safety was to protect all employees in Turkey from occupational health and safety. On the roof of the law was the prevention of business killings, especially in small workplaces, but despite all our party's objections, Law 6495 was postponed to the day of July 1, 2016. After that, the bag destroyed the law and the occupational obligation by the workplace physician for ten jobs and fewer workers. With this bill, the exceptional arrangement for less than 10 businesses has been expanded for less than 50 workers. In addition, more than 80 per cent of business accidents occur in SMEs in Turkey, but you have previously postponed this date with Law 6745 to 1 July 2017. Now, with this bill, you delay the risk assessment of work safety experts and occupational physicians for less than 50/permanent workplace jobs, and the obligation to meet other obligations provided by the law until 2020. I mean, every year, it's becoming less valuable to our people's lives. The number of jobs employed in our country is 1 million 24. This shows that you, unfortunately, do not find the lives of those 1,24 workers of ours very valuable. I think both the ILO contracts and the health and safety of their employees, the 56th article of our Constitution, which describes the government's obligation to protect them, has been very clear on that subject. You can never and never ignore business health and safety for economic concerns and avarice for profit. The unjust are the unjust, and the unjust are the unjust. Justice is good, but it's even more beautiful in the great state, and it's not a matter of partying to always say justice for everyone. It's actually a problem for all of us. That's exactly where the comrades, who call it justice for everyone, have branded the street with a demand for justice, will continue to shout out our demand for justice for the world now and in the days to come. Unfortunately, you're using justice as a weapon, but one day, like boomerang, this will strike those who use justice as a weapon, and then justice will be brought down, and unfortunately, you will be the victims again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit09spe0356par0426	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 56 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "1/2" shall be replaced in the form of "1/3" in the second joke of Law Article 25 (the second article of the Law), which has been replaced with Article 56 (the framework of the 485 rows of the Common Law). Kazim Arslan Tacettin Bayır Tahsin Tarhan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Although 2/3 of the participants, whose bill preconditions for transition to the General Assembly in the OSBs, "the condition for getting permission to use structure has been lifted and in a sense, the transition to the general council seems to have been eased, but this is not the reality. Because in terms of the second condition, on the contrary, the transition to the general council has been aggravated. 2/3 "accession to the OSB will be easier for the general council in OSBs, which has not reached the number of licenses to use, but has provided a job opening and working license condition. But it's not possible to say that in terms of all OSBs. Because according to the current situation, the requirement for getting a job opening and working permit is raised to 1/2. The article states that the transition to the general council has been facilitated in order to allow the industrialist to manage itself. According to the current arrangement, 34 parcels and 50 parcels must have "opened and worked licenses, " according to the bill, when a total number of parcels was calculated by a 100 OSB in motion. The clause is not in accordance with the grounds. If the OSBs were employed in the region and were asked to be directed by participants, the first condition of the transition to the general council would be removed from the permit to use structure, and 1/3 of the total number of parcels would be conditioned on opening jobs and working licenses. That would give the local industrialist the right to rule his cat as soon as possible. If the drafting clause is adopted in this manner, the task of the incumbent committee will continue to be run longer by non-registered OSBs, who have taken over the seat of the occupational chambers parliament. OSBs should be stopped from being the back yard of their professional rooms. While OSBs and OSB industrialists wait for the transition to the general council to be facilitated, this change is far from meeting the need. Industrialists have a license to choose the people who will lead them. The election of regional managers by the regional industrialist is more appropriate for the OSB spirit, the relocation and development of democratic culture. Given the diversification and strengthening of the ministry's administrative custody authority, the transition of the OSBs to the general council was intended to be facilitated. The OSB's zoning plan proposes that 1/3 of the approved total parcels will be able to make the general board as long as they have "opening and working license." I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... It's been made. There's a motion on Article 58 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Article I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "to the real or legal persons to come after the declaration of "real or legal persons" of the second or third clause, which is intended to be added to Article 4562 with the framework Article 58, and to replace the fifth joke in the article text, according to the fact that they have the terms set in the regulation to be issued. ▪ The employment period of investment and completion of investments, allocations and transfers of investments, and regulations to be adopted by the Ministry, where, where, where it is made, the capacity for technology development or so on will be adopted by the Ministry. Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Government? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The proposed criteria are being implemented for the operations of OSBs to be fully or partially non-profit, and transactions on Article 1 of Law 5084 are removed from the scope of Article 1 of Article 1 of Law 5084. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the amendment to Article 58, which has just been adopted, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes the following article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In addition to Article 58, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 59, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 59 of Law Bill 485 be arranged in the following manner. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan Akif Ekici Article 2 of the Law 59 - 4562 has been lifted from effect. OSB participants will select and form executive boards within six months of the implementation date of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: However, the interim Article 2 of OSB Law 4562 has changed in this bill, it is far from meeting a fundamental problem with our industrialist. Organised industrial zones should be able to choose from amongst their own participants the inclusion and administrations. The current state of matter is free of self-management of the OSBs, and the OSBs, which are established by the industrial chambers, conduct the tasks of the general board and the joint delegation, according to the Turkish Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges Act 5174. The board of directors and audit members are elected by members of the industrial chamber council, and at least three of the board members are elected by OSB participants. This request will be met if the interim Article 2 is lifted from effect. Since OSB participants know their own problems and agendas better than the representatives of the industrial room elected to OSB administrations, it is natural that they want direct decision-making and say-so in their own areas. The right of regional participants to choose their own administration from themselves should be recognised to the OSBs and removed the 2nd interim clause that prevents it. Under the new arrangement, the OSB participants must open the door to elect their own contractor delegations within six months from the date of this law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. And the fact that I made you read the motive didn't convince you. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 60: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 14 of Article 60: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 60: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary clause of Article 60: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 61 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 62 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 64 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, this concludes the vote on substances in the third section. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-06-17sit10spe0356par0001	I now open the tenth session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 485. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 486, which is ranked in the second row. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 461, which is ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there are no other jobs available on our agenda, it is 14 p.m. on Sunday (June 18th 2017) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you all good luck and good morning.
