tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ill. - Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I'll give my word to the 15 MPs who have entered the system. There's no congressman entering the system right now. Let's make a promise to the group presidents. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Rasim Ozan Kütahian, in a sports program today, has made a very unfortunate speech that has hurt the feelings of our Bosniak citizens living in Turkey. Our people in front of the public need to take care of themselves. In particular, those who comment on television should be very careful if they make a statement about the origins of our citizens in the country about their culture. This statement that hurts the feelings of our Bosniak citizens must be taken back by this person. In addition, the RTÜK (RTÜK) must punish the relevant programme for its words about the moral and culture of our citizens in the country. I, Rasim Ozan Kütahian, condemn him from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for hurting the feelings of our Bosniak citizens, and I expect RTÜK to make an appropriate decision as soon as possible. I salute you with these feelings.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0003par0016	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't normally take the floor today because it's on a special agenda, but today I've been promised to share a message with the General Assembly of one of the six candidates for Parliament. I salute the General Assembly, which is on the agenda of the Parliament. My thanks, love and respect to all the friends in our council group who nominated me. Unfortunately, the Parliament, which operates law enforcement on behalf of the people's will, is in trouble. Despite all its shortcomings, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, a product of representational democracy, is going through a process in which even representational democracy has been injured when it should have evolved directly to democracy by getting rid of these shortcomings. Today, parliament faces a sad situation in which the ten per cent of the second major opposition party will be reduced by a political coup, with more than 20 per cent missing in the arrest of 15 per cent, with their motions and group proposals unprovoked, and opposition parties are constrained enough to say that there is no time to speak. Freedom of expression of free thought, geography, historical use of concepts, power and policies have found life in purchase of millions of valuable power tools in a parliamentary reality, in unlimited expenditures, in a reality where there are no sweets on the food menu. In today's presidential election, history will surely appreciate how accurate it would be to call a member of parliament, who has the right to run for president, a system where he can't vote for himself.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0005par0026	Please complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0004par0027	The fact that my character's candidacy serves as such a turnusol and that it is not a democracy run here, but a playing democracy. The fact that we are held hostage is not an example of a new will we face in our fighting history. In the face of Turkey's fundamental problems and our insistence on the democratic solution to the Kurdish problem and our determination, captivity has not broken our will and hope, except for a body constraint. The fact that the Parliament has lost its capacity for legislation and control in the building of a single man's regime is clearly understood from the operations we are staying in today. We may be in closed prisons today, but remember, the country has become a semi-open prison. One person is a semi-open prison where a party is trying to draw boundaries. That's how far back in basic human rights, his arrest is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0006par0032	Complete it, again. Congressmans, please, please, there's a big hum in the hall...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0004par0034	...as a threat element, authors, journalists, even a prototype or summary of a country that is being used on the entire public, are the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which will be held today. Imagine a Speaker not defending the rights of his own members. Of course, we know very well that the inability to defend this is due to the president of the House's own imagination. In this sense, neither I nor my friends have wished nor wished, nor will we be seen.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Gürer, please, we'll start with you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0007par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. The Labour Bureau organised the workshop as the Republican People's Party on subcontractors. Three major labour institutions presidents and representatives of the subcontractor platform attended the workshop. They announced their demands with a statement. An arrangement without a meeting with the parties has been expressed as inadequate and incompatible with the purpose. The draft, however, was presented to the Prime Minister, the Labour Minister said in a statement. An arrangement with equal pay and staff without equal employment will not make subcontractors happy because the arrangement for the purpose is an arrangement with subcontractors to be taken into consideration. In this regard, we do not agree that the arrangement that 1 million,250,000 subcontractors have been waiting for in our country will come out in a way that will disappoint them. In this context, we demand that subcontractors and unions participate in the work. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0008par0045	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0009par0048	Today is World Children's Rights Day. Turkey has 2 million child workers. 56 children died in the work killings of workers in 2016. In the first five months of 2017, 182 children were sexually abused. 18 children died in mines in 20 months, 16 children were run over by armored vehicles, 668 babies behind bars in prison. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking Mr. President if we should celebrate World Children's Rights Day or be embarrassed.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0008par0049	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0010par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. In our country, there is a very painful picture of child rights. Just last year, 143,000 of our girls failed to attend school. According to official data, the number of girls who were forced into marriage from 2002 to today is 643. Think of the thousands of children who were married at an early age who were not registered on official record. One of our four children lives in poverty. Instead of school lines, our children find themselves in front of unsecured business stalls or in the streets. In 2016, at least 56 of our children were killed in business killings, while our children had a 20.8 per cent chance of joining the labour force alone in AKP. To present our children with bright tomorrows, we must find an urgent solution by handing over all parties. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0011par0054	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0012par0056	Mr. President, in the promised high-speed train project for Burdur, two alternate routes have been set. First, it bypasses downtown, where the university and brigade are located. The ruling deputy states that the feasibility route will be chosen. If this project passes by bypassing Burdur's headquarters tomorrow, will it be said, "What should we do, we worked, but we didn't?" My call from here is to take the high-speed train, which is vital to Burdur, through the center of the city. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you. Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0013par0061	Today is World Children's Rights Day, but our children face harassment, rape, and various abuses. There's gotta be an immediate precaution. Turkey's heart is Istanbul, Istanbul's belly is Şişli. There's a residence in the garden of Pisces Industries Professional High School. A 4 towered project of 470 dwellings, 240 rooms, totaling 36,000 square metres of land is being built. It is declared a special project in 2013, and is cancelled by city planners in 2014. Construction is underway and ongoing today. It is alleged to belong to a foundation, but the state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state, and should never, ever build the school's garden and attract a close-knit company as residence property.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0011par0063	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0014par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. According to the family minister's data, there are more than 31,000 children's brides. According to TÜİK Τeki's data, the number of children who have given birth under the age of 18 is 22.500. According to DİSK, the number of child workers was over 2 million in 2015. 78% of these are off the record. It's embarrassing. In 2016, 56 children were killed in business killings. It's embarrassing. Children are our common value and must be superior to parties. The AKP is incapable of protecting our children. For a moment, I wish they'd give up their burden and take care of our children, thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0011par0067	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0015par0069	The AKP, which puts a PTSD into the public's soda with its bag of laws, has blocked the victims of pensioners. Retired pensioners, unfortunately, are not retired due to underage age, and on the other hand, are unable to find work in the private sector because they are not young. Many of our citizens in this group are currently struggling to make a living. They demand their rights, not privileges. Victims must be dealt with quickly by listening to the right demands of those who are in retirement, most of whom are struggling to make a living.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. Gaytancıoğlu instead of Mr. Cicek... Here you go.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0016par0073	Mr. President, thank you. According to the harvest period, the price of hay has increased by 100 percent. No price of meat goes down, no price of milk goes down, no cost of feeding. This has to have a policy, imports aren't the answer. Unfortunately, the government chooses the easiest way, killing local feeders to people for cheap meat. Besici's miserable, all over Turkey, animal markets are empty, animal sales cut like knives, people don't have money in their pockets. The middlemen are winning again. I urge the government to immediately follow a qualified and consistent agricultural policy. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0017par0076	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Dear Man...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0018par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Children's Rights Day. The world must live every day, every moment, thinking about children. Unfortunately, in our country, there's an ill-advised power that can't even protect its children. In the last ten years, sexual abuse and abuse against children have increased by 700 per cent in our country. Besides sexual abuse and abuse, we have working children, children who have lost their lives in business accidents, children who have been burned to death in dorms, children who go to bed hungry at night, children who can't even play. In our country, the children of this country, unfortunately, can't even benefit from education equally. Today, first and foremost, we call our children rights, law, justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0017par0081	Thank you, too, Mr. Man. Mr. Sugar instead of Self-Resort...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0019par0084	Mr. President, there's a parliamentary election today. On that day, February 16, 1969 Ali Turgut Aytaç and Duran Erdogan were unfortunately killed in the bloody market. After the gathering of the students who wanted to protest the 6th Fleet, we will not forget Ali Turgut Aytaç and Duran Erdogan, who were slaughtered by the gangs organized by the community's President, İsmail Kahraman.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0017par0086	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0020par0088	I condemn the lunatic who attacked the Ataturk poster with a knife. I also condemn Rasim Ozan Kütahian, who spoke back and forth about our Bosnian citizens on White TV. Mr. President, the attacks on journalists are increasing. Today in Istanbul, İstanbul writer Ali Tarakçı was attacked. Earlier, they had been attacked physically by Eskibar, sports writer Osman Tanburcı, writer Ihsan Elizub. His universal correspondent Burcu Yıldırım was also verbally attacked. The main reason for these attacks is the language of hatred used by the power against journalists. Yesterday, the AKP President, Mr. Erdogan, once again targeted journalists. We say that Mr. Erdogan should not view journalists as enemies, should respect criticism now, because this statement is unfortunately causing the attacks against journalists to increase. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0021par0092	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0022par0094	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, as you know, there is an important hearing in the United States of America that will begin on November 27th. So the press is watching closely, the public is watching closely, and the politicians are following closely, because among the defendants of this case is Reza Zarrab, who is very famous in Turkey, former Minister Zafer Çağlar, and the current Vice President of the People's Bank. In his talks on this issue, Mr. President says the goal is rather the state of the Republic of Turkey than him. We have an earful of this, and I would very much like for Mr. Attorney General to come out and brief us on this in a closed session. Again, we've all learned that Mr. Egemen Bagis is a citizen of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to avoid INTERPOL. I also ask the government: Is there any other AKP people applying for Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus citizenship at this point?
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0023par0097	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0024par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. The finance ministers of the European Union decided to cut back on pre-accession financial aid funds provided to our country following the 2018 budget talks meeting. The last 15 years of our country, which has been an official candidate for the European Union for nearly 18 years, have been severely damaged by the accession process discussed by the Justice and Development Party governments. The government, which is responsible for carrying out accession talks as far as the European Union -- the democratic standards, human rights, the freedom of press and freedom of expression -- have to take the necessary steps ahead of ratification of this decision, as well as the decision that undermines our country's reputation. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0025par0102	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0026par0105	Mr. President, today we will elect the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've been entrusted with this House, with its founder, Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his friends. This is a Parliament where laws are enforced, our democratic rights, our gains, our administration in every aspect of our economy. It is a pity that for two years the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should not be ruled within the proper laws and frameworks, and that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should sit in the office in a way that he could not once speak of Ataturk, and that he should be nominated for this office again today, and that our fellow members of parliament in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who are in this nomination, will not be re-elected by an action ideology of the Republic People's Party.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0025par0107	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0027par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2017, the delay in debt of farmers who suffered from frost, rain, floods and other disasters still did not result in the signing of the Council of Ministers, despite the end of the year. What does the government expect? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0028par0112	Thank you, too. Finally, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0029par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. The data on children is terrifying. Thousands of children in Turkey have been deprived of their basic rights, such as living, housing, health, education, while hundreds of children are being used as labor forces in prison. Some of them were child laborers, some of whom were victims of a job murder. Again, 182 children were sexually abused in 2017. Recently, this country has witnessed children murdered inside its home by an armored police vehicle. As some say, our children, our women, our people, are deeply disturbed by the expression of families with ten-teen children. On November 21 in Kızıltepe district of Mardin province 13 years ago, I remember all the children who were killed on the day after the Day of Children's Rights, and all the children who were killed, I say, don't kill the children, sirs.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0119	Thank you. Congressmans, we, the Court, celebrate World Children's Rights Day and embrace all children with love. In addition, we expect our Parliamentary Speaker, who will be elected today, to meet with all parties to pioneer the establishment of the Children's Rights Commission within the Parliament.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0031par0124	We've offered the law, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0032par0125	Yeah, we offered him a law on that.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0126	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: 17.11.2017 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The six members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's Permanent Commission Meeting of Turkey and Rize MP Osman Yüzk Bak as minister of the Minister of the Council of Justice and Development Party (Georgies) have been discharged as a candidate for membership, Bursa MP Cemalettin Kani Torun, İstanbul MP Hasan Sert, Konya MP Mehmet Babaoğlu, Mersin MP Yilmaz Tezcan and Nevşehir MP Ebubekir Sırgider, who has been nominated by the Republican People's Party Group's Party Group as a candidate for membership, Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, Diyarbakır Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's nomination, Turkey's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Democratic Assembly is under the scope of the National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. According to our agenda, we will choose the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are motions to run for president, and I'm putting it through the application order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution's 94th and 10th Articles of the Turkish Parliament, we nominate İzmir MP Zechariah Aziel in the election of Turkish Parliament. Engin Altay Free Engin Özkoç [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I am running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the second round of the 26th Legislature. I'll give you what you need. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The election of Parliamentary Chair for the second half of the 26th term is nominated for Mr Selma Irmak, our MP of Hakkari. We pay tribute to your knowledge. Suryet Taşdemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ayşe Acar Başaran Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Feleknas Uca Mahmoud Toğrul Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Imam Taşçıer Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan [[Applause from HDP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution's 94th and 10th Articles of the Turkish Parliament, we nominate İstanbul MP Jalal Adan in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I am running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the election for the second half of the 26th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect, I do. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I am running for president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the second round of the 26th Legislature. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've been briefed, Mr. Lawmakers. I'm running the candidate names through the election circles and by the name listed on the sealed ballot: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Candidate List: [[Adana]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. In order to be elected president in the first two votes, you must have received at least 367 votes of the two-thirds of the total number of members, or at least 276 votes of the total number of members in the third vote. If the third vote cannot hold a majority, the fourth vote will be held for the two candidates who won the most votes, and the most eligible candidate in the fourth vote will be the President. I propose how the secret vote will be conducted: from the commission and the government, from the clerk members of the commission, from Adana to Denizli, and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, including Istanbul -- the clerk members will sign the name of the MP from İzmir to Mardin, starting with Marchin, and from Mersin, to Zonguldak, starting with Zonguldak -- from Diyarbakır to İstanbul. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. The MP who will use the vote will enter the voting booth after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, whichever candidates on the ballot will vote for, mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign and place the ballot in the envelope in the cabin, and then throw it in the ballots placed in front of the Presidential Court stand. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I'd like to introduce the members of the vote's attention: When voting, the square in front of one of the candidates will be marked. The ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalid. Same color pens are placed in the cabins. The members will use these pens. In cases such as signs, signatures, or scribbles on the ballot, the vote will be invalid. The current ballot will carry no sign except the preferred cross sign. Now, I'd like to ask the members of the clerks to take their seats. Clerk members are in position. Sealed ballots and envelopes, please be handed over to the members of the clerk. It's been delivered. Congressmans, I'm going to identify a five-man commission with a name drawn up for the count and transcript of the vote. Mr. Orhan Madeye, Erzurum? Here. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu? No. Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Kahramanmarash? Here. Mr. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? No. Mr. Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, İzmir? No. Mr. Cigdem Karaaslan, Samsun? No. Mr. Erdogan Erk, İstanbul? No. Mr. Mehmet Demir, Kırıkkale? Here. Mr. Deniz Baykal, Antalya? Anthalya MP Mr. Deniz Baykal has come out, and we wish him well, and we salute him with love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr Sema Ramazanoğlu, Denizli? Here. Dear Revolution Root, Antalya? No. Mr. Oktay Dish, Army? Here. I'd like to ask the members of the commission to take their seats in the commission after the vote is completed. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. Congressmans, the voting process is over. Put the ballots away. I'd like to ask the members of the Commission to take their seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Members of the Task Commission: Sema Ramazanoğlu, Denizli; Oktay Çanak, Army; Fahrettin Oguz Tor, Kahramanmarash; Mehmet Demir, Çırıkkale; Orhan Delıböz, Erzurum. Congressmans, the vote count has begun. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second round of the 26th Legislature was shown below by 500 members who participated in the first round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Sema Ramazanoğlu Oktay Çanak Mehmet Demir Orhan Mad-Eye Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Adana MP Tamer Mountainli: 38 Hakkari MP Selma Irmak: 39 İstanbul MP Celal Adan: 40 İstanbul MP İsmail Kahraman: 260 İzmir MP Zechariah Haziel: 113 Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu: 6 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the first vote of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's election did not include a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. We will now begin the second vote in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In order to be elected president in this vote, you must have received 367 votes, a vote of two-thirds of the member integer. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats, please. Sealed ballots and envelopes, please be handed over to the members of the clerk. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first place. I believe this vote will show the necessary sensitivity. Now, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn for the count and transcript of the vote. Mr. Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya? No. Eskişehir MP Harun Karacan? No. Mr. Ismail Tamer, the Kayseri MP? No. Mr. Atay Alderman of Antalya? Here. Mr. Birol Ersem, the Hatay MP? No. Mr. Umit Özdağ of Gaziantep? No. Mr. Hasan Özyer? No. Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy of Bingöl? Here. Mr. Akif Çağatay Kılıç, MP of Samsun? No. Mr. Faik Öztrak of Tekirdağ? No. Mr. Musa Pine, MP of İzmir? Here. Mr İbrahim Aydın, MP of Antalya? Here. Mr Murat Alparslan, Ankara MP? No. Mr. Bashir Atalay, Van MP? No. Mr. Radiye Sezer Katırcıoğlu? No. Mr. Burhan Kayaturk, Van MP? No. Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu? No. Mr. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman MP? No. Mr. Vecdi Gündüz was a member of the 40s? No. Mr. Nurettin Aras? No. İstanbul MP Mehmet Mehdi Eker? Here. The members of the rating commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Congressmans, we're starting the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The voting process is over. Let's raise the ballots, please. I'd like to ask the members of the Commission to take their place, and I'll have them read their names one more time: Task Commission: Atay Besı, Antalya; Hişyar Özsoy, Bingol; İbrahim Aydın, Antalya; Mehmet Mehdi Eker, İstanbul; Musa Çam, İzmir. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second round of the 26th Legislature was shown below by 506 members who participated in the second round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Mehmet Mehdi Eker Atay Nice Musa Pine Adana MP Tamer Mountainlı: 37 Hakkari MP Selma Irmak: 38 İstanbul MP Celal Adan: 40 İstanbul MP İsmail Kahraman: 257 İzmir MP Zechariah Haziel: 122 Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu: 7 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the second vote of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's election did not include a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. Congressmans, there's a petition to withdraw from the nomination of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I withdraw from the nomination of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the second half of the 26th Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I'd appreciate that, with all due respect. On the basis of the petition, the Adana MP, Mr. Tamer, has been withdrawn from running for President of the Mountain. In the third vote, you will be informed that the ballots will be invalidated when the name of Mr. Mountainlı will be marked. Members of parliament, we now move to the third vote in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In order to be elected president in this vote, you must have received a single majority of members' votes, or 276 votes. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Please hand over the sealed ballots and envelopes to the members of the clerks. Mr. Clerk, did you receive any members? Okay. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first place. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm going to draw up a name for the count and transcript of the vote to determine a five-man commission. Mr. Recep Guest, Karaman? No. Mr. Ataullah Hamidi, Batman? Here. Mr. Burcu Koksal, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Mr. Abdulkadir Akgül, Yozgat? No. Mr. Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay? No. Mr. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? No. Mr. Ergun Stoneman, Army? Here. Mr. Hussein Samani, Antalya? No. Mr. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? No. Mr. Salih Çetinkaya, Kırşehir? Here. Mr. Cesim Gökçe, Pain? No. Mr. Adnan Bonekara, Adıyaman? No. Mr. Emine Nur Günay, Eskişehir? No. Mr. Kazim Lion, Denizli? Here. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is finished. Congressmans, we're starting the vote in Adana Province.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0033par0349	Mr. President, Tamer Mountain has recanted from running, but his name is on the list again in the third round. This is a trick that affects the outcome; it still needs to be canceled and printed before the results are determined. Otherwise...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0350	Mr. Tanal, we talked to you here.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0033par0351	We talked, but...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0352	Look, I've made a statement here regarding Mr. Tamer Mountain's withdrawal from the nomination. Mr. Tamer has been withdrawn from running for President of the Mountain. In the third vote, I announced that the ballots for the name of Mr. Dağlı will be invalidated.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0033par0353	The ballot is in good health...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0354	We repeat what we do, Mr. Tanal, there is no injury in our procedure. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0033par0356	Sir, your job isn't healthy, it's not right; the new compass needs to be printed, and that's the truth.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0357	If he votes, we'll consider him invalid.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0033par0358	Sir...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0034par0359	Will the name of the person who withdrew the nomination be on the list?
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0360	Congressmans, it's all right... The procedure is progressing, please...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0035par0362	You're doing it wrong, but...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0030par0363	It's not the first time we've voted, it's not the first time we've elected Speaker. There's a ritual, we repeat it. There is no injury, there is no mistake in the process, we are repeating the same process as in the past, so let's be comfortable.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0035par0364	There are no such examples in the past.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0036par0365	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0035par0366	Can you give me an example? That's a classic saying, sir, that's our custom, that's the rule. What is the nature of it?
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0036par0367	Mr. President, let's move on to the election, I'll explain it to Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0369	Are there any members who don't use the game? Please...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0038par0370	Mr. President, we were outside a group of friends. We didn't hear Tamer Bey retreat. What's it gonna be? With written notification...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0371	I just made the same announcement.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0038par0372	But we voted.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0373	If you were here, we'd be in the election, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0038par0374	No, I can't.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0375	I can't follow every congressman. Please...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0038par0376	Sir, we're just saying that so he can be restrained.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0377	And there's TV in the lobby, everywhere. We have the means to be heard as easily as possible.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0039par0378	TV's off, TV's off in the lobby, go see.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0037par0380	All right, members? Did everyone use the game? The non-voting congressman, I don't think there's any members left. Congressmans, the voting process is over. Let's raise the ballots, please. Will the members of the Commission of the Commission please take their seats? I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Collection Commission: Salih Çetinkaya, Kırşehir; Burcu Koksal Afyonkarahisar; Ergün Taşcı, Army; Kazım Arslan, Denizli; Ataullah Hamidi, Batman. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second round of the 26th Legislature was shown below by 509 members who participated in the third round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Salih Çetinkaya Burcu Koksal Ergün Taşcı Hakkari MP Selma Irmak: 37 İstanbul MP Celal Adan: 36 İstanbul MP İsmail Kahraman: 289 İzmir MP Zechariah Haziel: 124 Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu: 7 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, İstanbul MP Mr. İsmail Kahraman was elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the third vote. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congratulating themselves, wishing them all the best. Mr. President would like to say thank you. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0040par0414	Mr. President, I salute you and the nation of Necip, who represent the will of our noble nation, the esteemed members of the Grand National Assembly of Veteran Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to thank you for re-electing me to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the second half of the 26th Legislature. First, I salute the first members of the First Assembly, the first President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades, who participated in and contributed to the national struggle under gas lamps. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey will have an exceptional place in our political history of the 26th Legislature. In our time, our state faced destruction, destruction, the use of the traitor, the abomination and the menhus. Our nation's heart, our coven, bombed by fighter planes, was shot down by helicopters. With our President's leadership and invitation, our nation has filled the squares with the spirit of unity and brotherhood, regardless of the party's difference, announcing and proving that it has absorbed democracy and will no longer be allowed to pass through the coups. On Friday, July 15th, when the bombs were being dropped and the bullets were being rained, we gathered under this roof in the spirit of martyrdom and emotion, in the morning. Our resistance under this roof with the same spirit that runs our Veteran Assembly's Instruction War has once again shown that our Parliament is worthy of the title. I give thanks to our nation of Necip, our government, our political parties, our security forces, all our institutions and organizations, our press, especially our president, who opposes the attempted coup in a manner of action, resistance and solidarity. And I would like to recite to you a common saying: May Allah not destroy our people and our state, and let him have mercy on 250 of our martyrs, and heal the veterans, and grant them a long life. Of course, the July 15th incident is an example and a lesson to be learned, a memorable event to be reminded of. This nation and its enemies are being held accountable for justice. The symbol of our conquest is that we do not lower our moon-star flag. The red color on our flag is the blood of our curse, we all have our share. My grandfather, who died in Yemen, my other grandfather, who was a martyr in the Caucasus, has the blood of my uncle, the only uncle lying in the mountains of Allahuekbar, and we all have the blood of the tyrant. The symbol of our conquest is that we do not lower our moon-star flag. We as a nation are one, we do not divide our country. Hopefully, the state of the Republic of Turkey will live forever. Our goal is to take our Turkey beyond the murky civilization, to adhere to our own spirit roots, to our spiritual and national values. Mr. President, Congressmans, I make political parties look like fingers of one hand. Each one is different, but it's all connected to the same wrist. When the time comes, those fingers are squeezed, one punch. We saw an example of this on July 15th, August 7th. We shouldn't hurt each other with small accounts, wrong thoughts; we should be non-combatant, negotiators, people who talk things out. People who are afraid of the idea run away from talking. We must also demonstrate our friendship and brotherhood in public. We must remember that friendship first begins when a person is at peace with himself. On this occasion, I would like to remind you of the final verse of Bestami Yazgan's Rose Hurting Heart poem: "Touch the effort, Don't get involved. As a tribute to the Lord of the Universe, Don't hurt your arm. Our MPs are the elite people of our nation. In order to build a non-fighting, non-combative society, our MPs must first set an example and conduct their work in harmony with the law and the legislation. Freedoms are not unlimited in any state of law. Unlimited freedom means anarchy. Those who want to discredit our coven have the antidemocratic thinking that they can't absorb democracy. An important study of this period is the amendment to the 1982 Constitution. We presented these changes to the public. Under a vote on April 16, 2017, our nation approved the transition and arrangements to the Presidential government system. I believe the latest changes will be useful in ensuring stability in our country after the upcoming general elections, in implementing the principle of separation of forces. I would like to point out that it is important to establish inter-party unity in the laws of integration, the Civil Code, and other legislation related to it. Mr. President, members of parliament, our goal is to ensure that the republic, which is crowned by the will of the people, is to live forever; to do the necessary work for a great Turkey, a prosperous, happy and fortunate people, who grow up with principles of democracy, law and justice. As I complete my words, I salute your high council, and yours in person, our beloved nation, and thank you, and wish you health and peace, and wish you good works. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit01spe0041par0436	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations again, we wish you a continued success. Congressmans, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0041par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. The Law on Changes in Laws and Laws Under Laws and Laws Under Laws, and the Law on Changes in Laws and Laws of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi's 6306 "The Law on Alternate Areas Under Afet Risk," number 2981, "The Law on Almsification of Laws and Substances Against Laws," and the Charter of Laws Against the Law on Lawst the Law on Lawst the Laws of the Laws of the Law and the Laws of the Law on the Law of the Law and the Law of the Law, and We will continue to talk on the basis of the proposal for amendments of the Law on the Law on Almutrifications and the Law on Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Numbers of the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Ones of the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Ones of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law and the Law on the Law on the Ones. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The 24th Amendment, dated 16/11/2017, spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party Groups on the fourth chapter of the Law Bill 502, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Istanbul MP Garo Paylan is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes. Mr. Paylan, they will address you on behalf of the five-minute person by combining his speech on behalf of the group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0042par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Yeah, we're back in the bag after the Speaker election, guys, back in a 125-point bag, you know. The government hasn't held a stitch in the economy in a long time. We say it's not about economics, it's about politics, but the government's always bringing in economic bag laws, which is what you're dealing with. We have a government that doesn't care about the basic issues of the country, we have a government that closes its eyes, because we have a government that transfers all political issues to the palace and security bureaucracy, and unfortunately we're facing a majority of the AKP. It's always bags, guys. Look, at the Plan and Budget Commission, we're talking about the country's 2018-year budget, and we're trying to come and talk about this 125-point bag, and there are 16 different ministries, 59 different laws in it. As I said, for a long time, the government has strayed from the will to resolve the fundamental issues of the country, and is trapped in security politics. You know, there's a power trapped in security politics, you know, that looks like a nail to the other person, and the hammer runs into everything in his hand, and unfortunately chaos enters the climate, disrupts the issue of trust in the future every day, and he thinks he can solve it with everyday issues. In this bill, I'm going to try to talk to you about the fourth part of the relevant clauses that we have against similar laws in this sense. Look, friends, politicians have to suffer the consequences of political mistakes. But we're dealing with a government that's trying to make us pay 80 million for political mistakes. Dear friends, Mr. Mehmet Simsek, you know the reason for the bag bill is this: "Friends, we're going to buy $18 billion worth of weapons, plus security bureaucracy is expecting money from us." Which we looked up as the budget was being discussed, and all the pencils for the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Defense, the security bureaucracy have increased by 40, 50, 60 percent -- so they suggested, hopefully not from here -- but you're looking at all the ministries about other social policies, and there's an increase in inflation. Dear friends, we're going to buy $18 billion worth of weapons, but Mehmet Simsek said that we're either going to take it as tax or we're going to borrow it from a citizen, and we'd rather take it as a tax. And you know that he brought these taxes here with tax proposals for 80 million in small income. Fortunately, we've taken steps back from the Plan and Budget Commission. For example, he was bringing the middle-income people plus loads of income tax, and on his motor vehicle tax, he showed death and agreed to malaria, because that was the tactic. Tell him we're going to raise 60, 70 percent -- so? - Mr. President, let's go 40 percent, let's settle for 50. The policy has been driven and there's an increase in the tax on motor vehicles. As for smoking, friends, there's a serious step to it, and I'll say it again. Dear friends, our finance policy has been broken by insistence on weapons and security policies... look, I'm sure the Minister of Finance is here thinking black and black, because AKP had only one chip, budget discipline. And we're losing a lot of budget discipline because of security policies. We've always said that peace has no cost. You sit down for peace, and you talk about it, and it doesn't cost a dollar; on the contrary, you give the people trust in society, and with that confidence, everyone looks at their work, and the wheels of the economy spins, but the cost of war is great. As a matter of fact, I'm sure the Finance Minister sees in his pens the cost of war, the cost of security policies. You guys are going to pay billions of dollars for S-400 missiles, and I really wonder who you're going to take these S-400 missiles against? Who's gonna attack us? Who's got missiles to attack us? The paranoia these days is that NATO attacked us, NATO could attack us again. I'm afraid we're dealing with the paranoia of a club we're allied with. All of this destroys confidence, destroys stability, expands budget deficits, increases interest, increases inflation, increases debt helix. All of these costs -- which, when you get the tax in part, you'll get it in this bag; you'll get the rest in debt, raising interest -- who's going to get it? Especially friends who will come out of the large majority with small incomes. Taxes never touch those very rich three-to-five percent, and they touch them, of course, but they affect their jobs, but the large majority of debtors pay those interest with small incomes, the budget deficits that come out of war policies, and the interest that comes out of it is low-income, friends. Look, I'm talking about 84 to 104. Here's what I think of some of the ingredients. For example, the Treasury, you know, has signed a concession agreement with three telecommunications companies: Turkcell, Vodafone and TELECOM, an international concession agreement. The Treasury says that if I find a tax deficit, I'll take it from you by 300 percent. Look, everyone signed the deal. And as soon as the Treasury finds an explanation, they get unpaid taxes, and in this case, they're going to pay 300 percent of the fine. There's a total of $4.5 or 5 billion in taxes. What's our power doing? Let's not go to the trials either, my friend. You give me a billion instead of these 5 billion, and we'll close it down. He can say, "Dear friends," and he equates that with the configuration of 80 million people. Dear friends, are the three companies with very good income worth 80 million one? Why don't you keep the cases going? Why don't we weigh the outcome of these lawsuits on the public conscience? Let the cases go on, let the corporations pay for whatever comes up. Is it right to close 5 billion at 1 billion? Dear friends, let the judgment be made. This stuff hurts your public conscience. And you're stepping up to the concession agreement. Another issue, dear friends, is the 103rd and 104th article. They're ordering major industrial institutions to prepare a security report on preventing accidents, and they say, "If these security reports don't be drawn up, I'll stop your operation." Our Minister of Labor and Social Security came to the Commission and said: "My friend, I can't prepare them." I have to go and prepare them. And he had to admit that I can't stop the activities of these organizations. We can give a simple example: Can the Ministry of Labor and Social Security stop the activities of TUPRAS? You know how all these cars wait for gas, and they can't stop it? The companies in the TUPRAS sample use its power and lay flour on the rope to prepare that security report. What did the Minister of Labor and Social Security say: "Give me until the end of 2018, and I will go there and prepare these." So, what happens if he doesn't, Mr. Secretary? What's he gonna do? What power do you have? Sir, how are you going to stop the operation? You can't stop it, Mr. Secretary. What should we do? There's no fine. A fine according to the sheep's turnover, Mr. Secretary, look how those security reports are being drawn up. 4 workers were murdered in TAPRASH just a month ago. We're dealing with a lot of workers' murders like this. It's a Parliament that hasn't done its duty to not put business security first. In that sense, we proposed this clause in the Commission, and unfortunately, it hasn't been stepped up. In that sense, friends, we need to place a fine, a deterrent, or unfortunately, there's no deterrent here. Another important item is Article 86, Mr. Secretary of State is of great importance. He will set up a risk analysis centre to fight the tax-lost fugitive among the duties of the IRS Chairman, setting up the Risk Analysis System to collect any tax. It's a very important substance, we really care, but where did you find it? Unless there's a law in the hands of the Minister, how did he find the fugitive, how did he find the fortune, and how would he go after it? And, Mr. Secretary, look at this Risk Analysis System very important. However, he should not only look within the borders of Turkey because of this Risk Analysis Centre, which is largely in Malta, Panama. A year ago, when the Panama papers exploded, I asked the Minister, Mr. Secretary. I said, take care of this Panama, there are tens of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, there are tens of billions, maybe hundreds of billions of dollars there. I said, in tax gardens, he didn't pay taxes that were stolen from Turkey; he didn't do it. Of course, citizens of the Republic of Turkey can invest abroad, but they shouldn't do it in tax Gardens because when they don't do it in tax Gardens, there's a tax agreement with it, it pays taxes to both sides, but there's trillions of dollars stashed somewhere in tax gardens that don't help any of the world's citizens. Unfortunately, hundreds of billions of dollars kidnapped from citizens of the Republic of Turkey lie in those tax gardens. Unfortunately, in Malta, documents came out of many citizens of the Republic of Turkey, including the relatives of the Prime Minister. Mr. Secretary, I'm calling you from here, have him work at the Risk Analysis Center, Malta and Panama, set up an office, and call there. The vast majority of Turkey already lack such wealth, where they moan under indirect taxes. But the Risk Analysis Center should work in Malta, Panama, and other tax havens, Mr. Secretary, and I recommend you. Believe me, you'll find big money and big taxes there. Mr. Secretary, my dear friends, look, Mehmet Simsek has proposed income tax reform, Mr. Minister, and Mehmet Simsek has proposed the Rant tax, and the Minister has also said so. It's not right to make citizens moan without reforming their income tax, taking the rent tax, taking the law out, looking at tax gardens, dudes, moaning under indirect taxes. On the cigarette tax... Look, there's also a cigarette tax between 84 and 104, guys. What is it? There has been a revival of tobacco in Adıyaman, in Malatya, in Mush, in Bitlis, in Bitlis, in the last few years, because it has raised taxes, Mr. Minister. What happened? There was a revival, and people began to find bread. What happened? In Macaron, domestic production began, they put it in and started to wrap it, and they started smoking for $3, $4. What happened? The Minister says: I have a tax loss. The foreign cartels say: either they're starting to take a share of the market, 5 per cent today, 15 per cent tomorrow. I'm a registered economy here, and as a foreign cartel, I have to run this market. What kind of a pickax was hit in the back of domestic production? With the laws of the 2000s, we need to hit a second pickax. What's it gonna be? The tobacco will be taxed, the macaroon will receive 2,000 per cent tax, and as a result, those who have been called "cooperative" will build those cooperatives, but they will not succeed against the cartels because they are not equal. How do you expect big cartels and tiny cooperatives to compete? Friends, how can a citizen who buys a pack of cigarettes for $10 a day make $300 a month and smoke for minimum wage $300 a month? Yeah, well, you can't stop it with the money, so he finds a way. He can smoke for only $4, $5, minimum wage. We've suggested to the Minister that we withdraw this macaroon tax, the tobacco tax, withdraw it to reasonable levels, make positive discrimination. But so far he's not there. Let's hope all members of the House have a conscience in these articles and support domestic production, which is starting to revive. There's another very important item, mass funding platforms. I'm not against principle, but let's not forget the story of our country, folks. When I was a child, I remember Banker Kastelli. I don't know if thousands of people have gone and paid Banker Kastelli to fund it, and there might have been people here. Then in the 1990s Kombassan came out, and Yimpaş came out, and thousands of people ran there, and gave them their money, and screwed it up, friends. That's our mass-funding story. Of course, it's important to meet the one with the money and the one with the idea. Those who have ideas should be financed by those who have money, so that those ideas may develop, but if they are not well organized, if they are not well managed, friends, new Jet Fadils may come out. I'm warning you from here, I'm warning all red tape, I'm warning the commission, and I'm warning you here, for the record. Dear friends -- the process is over -- today's $3.93, interest 14, inflation 12, budget deficits don't hold. Dear friends, we can't solve our problem with palliative bags like this, it's political. And we, as politicians, should sit down and do our politics. We can't solve things with sacks like this. My respects.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0043par0035	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. On behalf of him, lastly, Mr Faruk Çaturoğlu of Zonguldak will speak. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0044par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. I have taken a pledge on the fourth chapter of the Bill of the Law to change the Law and Laws under some tax laws of 502 rows. Before I speak, I strongly and with hatred condemn NATO's implementation of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It is simply impossible to describe it as a mistake and to avoid it with an apology. Such issues are major international issues and need to be dealt with seriously. Dear friends, I'd like to briefly discuss the regulations in this section of the bill. Of course, the bill has regulations for the electronic telecommunications sector. There are regulations for the registration of revenues in the general budget for wages that businesses receive unfairly from consumers but cannot be returned for various reasons. There are issues related to the free drinking water and use of drinking water on sale to municipalities who want education institutions, dorms, school pensions and hospitals. Tax premium collections have items that allow returns by tax agencies to be increased to the SGK debt, the debt of the return of the SGK to the tax offices, and resuscitations to the tax offices. However, I particularly want to focus on the fundamental changes in the taxation of cooperatives in order to promote co-op. As you know, before, the effect of non-cooperative operations on corporate tax exemption is being removed, and the earnings obtained from these transactions are also not being taxed. In this way, if the co-ops do a joint extracurricular transaction, tax exemptions will not be lifted, non-college transactions will be taxed as a separate economic enterprise. In this framework, it will not be accepted for members of the housing and workplace cooperatives to sell economic life-periods, ironsmiths, and such. Co-operatives will not be exempted from starting an economic business or starting a company, making a profit out of it and handing it out to their members. Earlier, as you know, when such operations were done, the exemptions of cooperatives were lifted and the profits from all the functions that co-ops had done in or out of common, were taxed. During the arrangement for the immunity of co-ops, the exceptions to the production and credit co-ops are also removed from force due to the joint operations of co-ops, without the need to calculate and pay taxes. On the other hand, manufacturing investments will continue to be tax-sponsored in 2018. In this framework, additional incentives for the implementation of a discounted corporate tax on manufacturing industry will also be maintained in 2018. Again, due to construction expenditures on manufacturing investments in 2018, added value tax will be returned. Mr. President, I call upon the good luck of the Bill of the Law to change the Law and Laws with some tax laws of 502 rows, and I salute you all again from the Lord God, with love and respect.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0045par0048	Thank you, Mr. Chaturoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. Our deadline is fifteen minutes, seven and a half minutes for you to ask questions, and in the other seven and a half minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions asked. Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0046par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the power lines in the cyclare countryside have completely exhausted their life, but for four years, they haven't been restored; they're not even half finished, so we're going to have eight or ten more years to renew lines. During that time, in our region, especially in the countryside, our small tradesmen and farmers, our animal manufacturers, are suffering a great deal of loss. Especially when I'm on animal rights, the blackout is a disaster. What I specifically want to know and what they say is that the investment allowance is not set aside. It needs an urgent solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0047par0055	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0048par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you this question a few times here, and I'd like to repeat once again: we have children who were injured in the fight against terrorism, but are not considered veterans, are ignored, are left unclaimed. We've been fighting for these people for a long time. I've asked you a few times and other ministers. The Prime Minister has instructed the seven ministries, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is also working on it. You said earlier, if you remember from here. Unfortunately, he didn't even know about it when I asked the Minister of the Family. In the questions I asked earlier, even if it wasn't about you, even if it wasn't about your ministry, I've always received an answer from you, Minister: I'll report it to the relevant ministry, and I'll answer it in writing. You say, "I'll answer it in writing." But I haven't answered any of the questions I've asked so far in writing. Let me make that clear, Mr. Secretary. Is there any study in accordance with the Prime Minister's instructions for those who are not considered veterans? What's his status if he's got one? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0049par0060	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0050par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are allegations that there will be a substantial fine from the United States for violating embargos against our public banks, Iran. How do you judge these allegations? My second question: whether or not the minimum wage allowance for each worker started in 2016 will continue at 2018. Will minimum wage support continue at 2018? Finally, minimum wage is $1,404, which is below the age of starvation, Mr. Secretary. 16 million of our citizens live below the poverty line, and 48 million of our citizens live below the poverty line. Will not the living conditions of our citizens, which are already too low, worsen by the additional tax regulations brought in by the bag law? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0051par0066	Thank you, too. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0052par0068	Mr. Secretary, farmers who have been given temporary documents and land spaces in the assembly application cannot receive loans on the grounds that it does not have a deed. The deeds on the deed are heavier than the employee problem, and the agricultural municipal administration considers the deed necessary for the Farmer's Recording System. The farmer can't get credit. Can't a temporary solution be reached? Can't an October farmer get a loan? Also, what is the number of farmers borrowed from public banks by taking loans and similar payments? What's the number of farmers who don't pay? Do you know the number of collections made by farmers through execution due to their debts? What is the number of farmers and tradesmen who were delayed in 2017? What is the number of farmers connected to the tractor for execution in 2017? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0053par0071	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0054par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, are you aware that even this season, people suffer from water problems in Adıyaman? Two: Do you have any study of fixing the water problem in Adıyaman? Three: Why is a new project still not being implemented in Adıyaman, which has high potential for water, in order to end the water problem? Four: How many HES are in Adıyaman? How do you explain the lack of a single dam to satisfy Adıyaman's need for water instead of these HESEs, which are the sources of Rant? Five: As part of the GAP project, what and how much benefit does the Adıyaman farmer make from watering? Six: When will the Baby-1 - Baby-2 Projects, which were suggested to be part of the program in the 1990s, be implemented? The ministry is all I've been asking.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0055par0080	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0056par0081	KHK No. 674 and S.E.P.D. academics have been stripped of their staff guarantees and all their fates have been left to the rectors' initiative. Some universities, in this case, took an ethical stance and gave their Ph.D.s their rights, while others were thrown out. However, only 159 of the 13.170 people were expelled from the State of Emergency, although the SIP was the least leaked system in the academy, the biggest coup hit was the SIP. According to the YKK's generality, the YOP has only one-and-a-half months left to sign with the universities with staffs of 2017 until the end of the year. We urge authorities to be sensitive in order to remove the inequality of this practice and restore the rights of the People of the State immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0055par0083	Mr. Tanal... no. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0057par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu. Bitlis Güroymak was paid ten years of rent for the municipality of Üroymak, shop, business and van lines. What law and power does the trustee do this based on? Where are the resources used? The ten-year income of Üroymak district has been earmarked. In what ways were the tenders for construction of autogars and university of applied sciences held at Üroymak, and to whom were they given? Twice the land sold during the previous two mayors of the municipality of Üroymak has been sold within a year by trustees. To whom are these sales made, where are the resources used? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0058par0090	Thank you. Mr. All... no. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0059par0093	Mr. Secretary; 1) Our subcontractors are laborers who receive the lowest wages, even though they work the hardest jobs. When will our subcontractors be staffed under such difficult conditions? 2) The wages of our subcontractors are paid two or three months behind due to your ministry's lack of funds on time. When will our subcontractors be paid regularly? 3) Does your ministry, which does not pay for subcontractors on time, pay late for the costs of the palace? 4) How will your Ministry, which delays the wages of subcontractors, grants of 4,500 new public vehicles, find the cost of 35 new vehicles to be taken to the head of the Religious Affairs, eight new armored vehicles to the palace? When are you going to give up such luxury expenses? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0060par0099	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0101	First of all, I'd like to thank all of our deputies. I'm going to try to answer any information that I may have. First of all, let me start by starting with the question Mr. Lion asked because it concerns my Ministry directly. You know, for the past 15 years, public service has been given significant increases both in quantity and quality. Both in health care and in education services and in all other public services, citizens now have access to public service and receive qualified public service. We receive these services by the hands of officers, by the hands of contracting staff, by the hands of workers, and again, by the hands of staff-based employees, and so on, for example, about 160,000 staff in the Ministry of Health work in this way today. And on all sides of Turkey, from education to health care, from environmental services to all other ministries, citizens receive these services in a more quality way. I have to say, this is the first time you've said that a public institution doesn't pay on time. I don't have that kind of information. The grants, you know, are released within three months, and all public institutions plan to release the funds when they plan to pay the tender. Specially in service-based contracts, since these are periodic monthly payments, there should be no problem in this regard. But it may be that if there were no plans to distribute funds to the countryside in any public institution, there might have been a situation like this in a number of exceptional places. If you share that information with us -- I mean, I don't think it's from our Ministry -- we'll do the necessary work on it until the end, and we'll go over the setbacks there. You know, in 2014, we made very important arrangements to secure the financial and social rights of our brothers who worked in employee-based service contracts. By 2014, the company would normally pay the dues, and the company would then pay its employees. With the arrangement we made as a government in 2014, we established a system that allows our brothers who work at these firms to pay regularly every month to get their payments on time, while making sure that our employees' salaries are also deposited in their bank accounts.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0062par0106	But the system doesn't work, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0107	Thus, all of our friends who work in staff-based service tenders today have no problem in this sense. Again, in 2014, we opened the way for our friends to form a straight-up collective contract with the public-employee union in these places where they work. And that was a very important arrangement, and starting in 2015, I think, these employees now work in public institutions can negotiate directly with the Public Employment Committee on pay levels. This is an extremely important opportunity. Besides, for years, these friends of ours have had a severance package problem. After 2014, we took a very important step to resolve this problem, and even though it was the firm's responsibility to pay the severance, we held public institutions directly responsible for it, and these friends of ours can now afford to pay severance. We've made very important arrangements to improve the financial and social rights of our friends, but in the meantime, as a government, we have made commitments to the publicization of our friends. At the moment, our Ministry of Labor is doing the necessary work on this matter, and hopefully soon, we'll be able to bring this arrangement to Parliament.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0063par0111	They haven't spoken to the parties, Mr. Secretary, to the parties.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0112	Here, regardless of the status of our employees, whether it's an officer or a contract employee, the whole goal is to provide first-class service to our citizens. In health, today, really, 7 times 24, when we go to our hospitals, we can see much cleaner places. Our citizens receive health care in a much better way.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0063par0113	There's no doctor.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0114	Remember in the 1990s, you couldn't enter the hospital, let alone clean up in the 1990s.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0063par0115	There is no doctor, doctor. There are no doctors in Farm County.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0116	And now, thanks to all the resources we have provided as government, our citizen can now receive service.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0063par0117	Mr. Secretary, there is no doctor; there is a hospital like a hotel; there is no doctor.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0064par0118	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0119	We all know that at this point, economically, where Turkey is coming, prosperity is increasing. For him, our citizen has the right to receive public services in the best way possible, first class. We, the government, are also doing the necessary work that will make this at minimum cost while trying to serve our citizens on this matter. This is already reflected in the survey of satisfaction by the TÜİK. In particular, the level of satisfaction in health level of 30 per cent increased rapidly during our governments to over 70 per cent. So in the presentation of public services, employment at different statuses is a result of the needs that arise over time, but let's just say, again, there were questions that were asked: both in terms of minimum wage, in terms of civil servants, in general, and in general, pensioners' financial and social rights increased really during this period. When you compare from 2002 to 2002, so if I take 2002, then we're looking at the lowest officer's salary -- the lowest officer's salary, the average officer's salary, and the net amount that comes into the hands of the minimum wage, really -- friends, really --
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0065par0121	On paper, paper.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0122	Go to TÜİKί's website, and you can see what materials you can buy for $100.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0065par0123	TIC takes it off, and the intern counts as a worker.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0124	When we do that study, we can see that really public workers have more wealth and the power to buy with the income they receive at this time.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0066par0126	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, please complete.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0065par0127	Give him two minutes to answer our questions.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0128	I'm completing it. So it's really about the power to buy. When we look at it from this point of view, the welfare of both employees and pensioners, both under contractors and especially those employed based on receiving services based on the arrangements that we have made, has been really increased in this period.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0067par0130	Their prosperity has increased, they're flying away!) They don't know where to fit the money, they don't take the pockets.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0061par0132	Is that enough? It's not enough, we'll increase it, and hopefully we'll make better arrangements for the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit02spe0068par0134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, this concludes the talks on chapter four. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-11-20sit03spe0068par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 502. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 457 and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (November 21st 2017) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good evening.
