tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs of our Aziz and Necip nation, Gazi Turkey's Grand National Assembly, welcome to the extraordinary meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'd like to ask that our meeting be a blessing. According to the 93th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Deputy Chairs of Justice and Development Party Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Aksaray MP Mr. İncınur İnceöz, Çanakkale MP Mr. Bkent Turan and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush Bey and 213 MP members of the Grand National Assembly are opening the 121·th Union of the Year of the Second Legislature. We'll do an electronic roll call. We'll give you three minutes to roll call. We ask that lawmakers press ballots and report that they are in the hall, that lawmakers who cannot enter the electronic system in the meantime seek help from technical staff present in the hall, but those who cannot enter the system will not leave the hall in three minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, the meeting has been determined that the members of parliament have participated in the meeting more than enough. Therefore, there are enough meetings. We're going on the agenda. I read the motion to call an extraordinary meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is part of the agenda: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the 7th Articles of the Constitution, 93rd and Grand National National Assembly of Turkey, under the 7th Amendments of the Constitution and Turkish Parliament, it is necessary to take every Kind of measures necessary in the International Law Frame against the National Security Risk of Turkey, and to ensure that our National Security of Turkey is executed in accordance with the threat to the National Security of Turkey, as well as to take into consideration the Armed Forces of Iraq and Syria, as well as the Union of Turkey's Armed Forces, and to discuss the Union's Union's Union's Council of Foreign Forces for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs, and the Council of Turkey's Union's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Foreign Affairs, and the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs and its Councils Council of Foreign Affairs and the Union shall be issued to the Constitution by the Council of Turkey, and the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs, and the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Foreign Affairs, and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkish and the Council of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Turkey shall be under the Constitution and the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of Turkey's Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Union of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Naci Bostancı AK PARTY Deputy Group Chairman AK PARTY Deputy Director of Group AK PARTY Deputy Group Chairman AK PARTY Deputy Director of Group AK PARTY Group Deputy President Zayid Aslan Cemil Cicek İsmail Tamer Selahattin Minsolmaz Ramadan Can Sebahattin Karakelle Hatice Dudu Özkal Adnan Günnar Look at your love Ayşe Doğan Oktay Çanak Mehmet Demir Muhammad Balta Zechariah Birkan Ürteza Rich Jülide Sarıeroğlu Aydın Ünal Nihat Özturk Ertan Aydın Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı Jalil Wanda Mujahit Durmuoğlu Akif Çağatatay Kılıç Ahmet Aydın Hasan Basri Kurt İbrahim Halil Yıldız Mehmet Akyerek Adnan Boyukara Harun Karaca Hasan Turan Mikail Arslan Metin Gündoğdu Yıldız Seferinoğlu Hilmi Bilgin Mustafa Sentop Serkan Bayram Ayşe Kashım Muhammet Emin Akbaşoğlu Radiye Sezer Kırcıoğlu Uğur Aydemir Haci Osman Akgül Cihan Pektaş Rafet Sezen Mehmet İlker Çiçil Mustafa Ilıcalı İbrahim Halil Fırat Tamer Mountain Faruk Çaturoğlu Alim Bronze Sami Çakır Muhamet Mufit Aydın Hüseyin Big Brother Hüseyin Samani Murat Alparslan Mustafa Yel Sema Kırcı Hüsnüye Erdoğan Harun Karacan Necip Shield Cesim Gökçe Hamza Mountain Bayram Özçelik Ali Cumhur Taşkın Bennur Karaburun Yılmaz Tezcan Mehmet Ali Cevheri Murat Baybatur Murat Demir Metin Bulut Mehmet Altay Hurşit Yıldırım Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Ahmet Sami Ceylan Nazim Maşş Orhan Kırcalı Ilyas Şeker Hüseyin Bürge Fatih Şahin Hulusi Şenturk Mustafa Isen Ali Aydınlıoğlu Öçal Kavuncu Ravza Karakcı Kan Zeki Aygün İsmail Aydın Recep Şeker Fevzi Şanverdi Hakan Sergeant Mustafa Serdenşti Sema Ramazanoğlu Mahmut Orhan Karasayar of Poyraz Ziya Altunyaldiz Nevzat Ceylan Halil Eldemir Cemil Yaman Kasım Bürhan Lamb Abubekir Bal Ahmet Gündoğdu Salim Nice Ismet Flight Hikmet Hakmet Hakmet, Sami Dedeoğlu Mehmet Habip Souk Mehmet Uğur Dilipak Selim Dursun Hasan Hard Sait Supreme Emine Nur Günay Leyla Şahin Master Ahmet Demircan Hüseyin Şahin Hasan Özyer İbrahim Aydın Mehmet Öğurk Lütfiye Selva Pine Ertugrul Soyal Şaban gear Özcan Ulupınar Emine Yavuz Köpün Ali Özkaya Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Yasin Aktay Mehmet Metiner Ekrem Erdem İmran Kılıç Hülya Nergis Yusuf Akıt Suat Önal Mustafa Şahin Dragon Open Haci Ahmet Özdemir Mehmet Akif Yilmaz İbrahim Aydemir Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu İsmail Emrah Karayel Abdulkadir Ascendant Text Akgun Abubekir Secreter Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar Efkan Ala Burhanettin Nice Metin Steel Villager Hüseyin Özbaır Recep Uncuoğlu Fikri Demirel Haluk İpek Mehmet Babaoğlu Durmiş Ali Sarıkaya Ismail Knower Serap Yasar Emrullah Business Abdullah Özturk Muhammad Uğur Castle Smurf Ünal Ayhan Sagittarius Omer Serdar Halil Etım Sakarya Elaziğ Ionya Ömer Ünal Hüseyin Filiz Markar Eseyan Abdullah Ağralı Ahmet Uzer Ahmet Tan Ayhan Yazým Ali Atay Be nice all the time Orhan Atalalay Yusuf Selahattin Beyribey Mustafa Hilmi Dülger Hawk Tin Bashir Atalay Coshkun Cakir Necdet Ünuvar Taner Star Fatma Benli Tahir Özturk Haci Özkan Reşat Petek Feyzullah Balıklı Ali Ercoşkun Erol Kaya Salih Cora Tülay Kaynarca Sabri Özturk Mehmet Mehdi Eker Burhan Kayaturk Öznur Çukık Abdurrahman Öz Ergün Taşçı Nureddin Necati Mehmet Emin Simsek Mustafa War Yusuf Başer Şaap Kavioğlu Kemalettin Yılmaztekin Mehmet Erdem Volcano Bozır Erkan Kandemir Ali İhsan Yavuz Halil Özcan Adem Yeşildal Ceyda Indivisible Çanrı Thank you. Now, I'd like you to read the call to our President. Turkey's President of the Grand National Assembly I am calling on Saturday (September 23rd) a meeting of the Constitution's 9th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 01/10/2016 and the 3rd and Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Saturday (September 23rd) at the request of the Prime Minister's thesis on the extension of the permit to be extended to Iraq and Syria by Article 92 of the Constitution due to the threat of national security and terrorism. I'd like to ask the MPs to attend the General Assembly meeting at the appointed time and day. Thank you. Congressmans, I'm having you read the statement given by the Prime Minister's office in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, which is the subject of the extraordinary meeting: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's southern land borders continue to increase the risks and threats for our national security of the ongoing conflict environment and the developments in the mujari regions. Turkey refers to the protection of the territorial integrity, national unity and stability of our neighbour, Iraq. On the other hand, the presence of PKK and DEAS elements in Iraq, initiatives towards ethnically-based separatism, pose a direct threat to regional peace, stability and the security of our country. Terrorist organisations, including PKK/PYD-YPG and DEAS, continue their actions towards our country, which continue to exist in Syria. There has been considerable distance in our country's efforts with other concerned countries to bring the ceasefire that began with the Astana process to lasting peace and resolution. In this context, security and diplomatic work are under way with other countries concerned with the aim of ending terrorist activities in areas of non-conflict within Syrian borders, aimed at securing peace, peace and security. In all these developments, it is vital for our national security to take the necessary measures in accordance with our rights due to international law, against any risk, threat and action that could pose a danger to our national security, to disrupt the territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria and create them. In addition, the United Nations Security Council's 2170 (2014), 2178 (2014) and 2249 (2015), the fact that the country's territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria have been confirmed, and that the terrorist activities in these countries again 2170 (2014) have been condemned, and the international coalition, which is being carried out against the activities of DEAS and similar terrorist organisations, is also important to all countries in order to take the necessary measures in accordance with their obligations under international law and international law. In light of these favours, to ensure that our national security will be maintained against the other possible risks such as mass migration, Turkey's separate movements, terrorism threats and any international law against security risks, to take whatever necessary measures necessary, to effectively protect Turkey's interests from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria, and then to protect our country from future attacks that may be directed after this, and to ensure that its national security be maintained against national security against other possible risks such as mass migration, and to ensure that Turkey's unilateralist initiatives in the southern territorial areas, with no legitimacy, and to ensure that all possible developments related to those in Iraq and Syria, should be carried out by the Turkish Union's two-to-one-tenth-one-tenth-one-tenth-tenth-tenth-year-year-to-year state-to-to-to-to-on-one-on-one-one-one-one-one-on-one-one-one-on-one-one-one-one-the-the-one-the-the-the-one-one-on-on-on-the-the-the-one-one-one-the-the-the-one-the-the-the-one-one-on-on-one-one-the-the-the-the-the-the-on-the-the-on-the-the-the-the-one-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-one-one-one-one-one-one-in-in-in-in-in-in-the-in-in-the-the-the-the-the-the-in-the-the-the-the-the-in-the-in-in-in-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-one-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-un-the-the-the-the-in-in-in-in-un-un- Thank you. Dear lawmakers, we will discuss the Prime Minister's thesis on the 72nd Article of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The groups will be promised to the government and to the two members of the government. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. Government? Here. Mr. Nurettin Canikli, National Defence Minister for the People's Movement Party; Mr. Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Mr. Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Mr. Özturk Yılmaz, Ardahan MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Mr. Volcan Bozk, İstanbul MP; Mr. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP and Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker on behalf of the People's Party Group. Now, on behalf of the government, the first statement belongs to Mr. Nurettin Canikli Bey. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0002par0201	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I stand before you to present the opinion and grounds of our government on the motion of the Turkish Armed Forces to conduct cross-border operations. I salute you all. At the very beginning of my words, I pray once again to all our martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave his life for the defence of the homeland and for the freedom and independence of the Turkish nation; I remember all our heroes who walk to witness with mercy and gratitude and gratitude; I salute our veterans with respect. I offer our sincerest gratitude and gratitude to all our security forces, soldiers, police, gendarmes, temporary security guards, who have carried out their duties with faith, with sacrifice, with great sacrifice, with courage, and with great sacrifice for the peace and security of our country. Let the Lord be his friends and his helpers, and let his swords be sharp. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been fighting dangerous, separatist, separatist terrorist organizations and terrorist organizations for some 40 years. The security threat our country has faced in recent years has both increased and moved to a global scale. So far, Turkey has paid enormous prices and continues to pay. As of today, the threat posed by terrorist organizations has been moved to another dimension. As of today, it is impossible to explain terrorist organisations' attacks on Turkey for only divisive and separatist reasons. The political boundaries of the geography we are in today are being tried to redesign. The project was originally launched in the early 1990s. In this geography of our country, governments are wanted to be reduced, weakened, neutralized, and to form new states that are constantly quarrelling with each other, which will make geography much easier to govern by those who try to design it. From this point of view, the separatist terrorist organization, the ones who are with it, all terrorist organizations, are subcontractors, fronts for the realisation of this project. This project, as I'm trying to express, is a global scale project. The books from a hundred years ago have been reopened. In fact, global writers tried to implement this project 30 years ago, early in the 1990s. For them, they are far behind their goals. In this regard, Turkey has broken the game. In this period, terrorist organisations see all kinds of support for the swift completion of this project from some countries and environments. Two fingers of honey were put in the mouths of these terrorist organizations, and they agreed to this task, this function. In addition to increasing global support for the separatist terrorist organisation, attacks on Turkey are also increasing. The source of the threat has previously been fed only and largely from northern Iraq, but today the scale, size and depth of this scale, unfortunately, has increased, and now the northern part of Syria has been added to these threat elements. The PYD-YPG terrorist organisation, which is the PKK's Syrian structure, is today seeking a political formation along the Syrian border. In particular, our ally, the United States, with the intense support of weapons, ammunition, equipment, intelligence, and all kinds of logistical support, is trying to remove the Arab and Turkmen population from these regions, placing them on the ethnic structure in northern Syria, south of our country, in order to achieve a political formation that will be co-ordinated and governed by the terrorist organization. In this framework, part of the PKK terrorist organisation, the Syrian-expansion PYD-YPG terrorist organization, as I've been trying to express in particular, is trying to clear the way for an occupational organisation on the ethnic structure by removing people from the land that has been in that region for many years. For example, Menbic is two examples of Rakka. Likewise, these peoples, who have been here for many years in Kerkuk and Telafer, have been trying to be taken away from here. Of course, we have to express it here at once, which will not be allowed to be done, to work in any way. Yes, unfortunately, by our allies, the U.S. and other countries, the terrorist organizations are being given incredible assistance and support under the guise of fighting DEASH. We know all that. A much larger number of weapons, ammunition and equipment listed in the lists given by our allies is being transferred to this terrorist organization. These weapons will eventually be directed towards Turkey within this structure, we know it, we see it, and this is expressed at every opportunity, at the most decisively, at any given time. Of course, it is not enough that only these are expressed to our clients, to our allies; it is absolutely impossible or impossible to solve this problem with him. As long as Turkey is not actively able to eliminate these mistakes in the field, the steps to eliminate these invasions, the steps to eliminate these threats, there is no way to eliminate these threats, and we know that, and we see that, and we do that in this framework. Mr. President, a political formation like this in the south of our country has no chance of surviving in the middle and long term, and in the short term, Turkey will not allow such a formation, it cannot, because such a formation targets the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey directly, targets security in short periods, the unity, its integrity. Therefore, we cannot allow such a state or a state to be established, to be run by a terrorist organization that violates international agreements. We have every right to take and operate on this issue; we use and continue to use these rights. PYD-YPG is the Syrian extension of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as I try to express. They use the same terrorist pool together, they're controlled from the same place, there's no difference. We set up our entire account and our book on this fact, otherwise the results would be misleading, and there could be very serious formations and difficulties that would threaten the safety of Turkey. We have very serious, powerful information and signs that these weapons our allies have given are being used against Turkey. We share these and these information with countries that provide these weapons. Our government has used the authority given by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the previous thesis, and you know that in this context, the Battle of the Fırat Shield has been carried out. In Syria, the DEA has been cleared of the DEA from August 24, 2016 to today of 243 residential sites and 2.015 square kilometers in our border line. If this action hadn't been carried out, this land would have been handed over to the YPG and the PYD without resistance from the DEA and would have been released and taken control of the terrorist organization. Today we see all the clear signs of this kind of cooperation in Syria and Iraq; we see it in Rakka, and we see it elsewhere. The DEA is handing over parts to the PYD-YPG terrorist organization without firing a single bullet. In fact, both of them were designed to carry out the design of the screenwriters, a front and a tong, and this cooperation made it very clear. Had it not been for the operation of the Fırat Shield, this land would have been handed over by the DEAS to the YPG terrorist organization and Turkey would have become more open and vulnerable to many threats. Also, as of today, 55,000 Syrians have migrated from Turkey and settled in this area; about 150,000 Syrians from other parts of Syria have settled in the region -- which is now in order to be inhabited -- in the operation of the Fırat Shield -- in the area that has been cleared of the DEAS. If that hadn't been done, the 150,000 Syrians would have reached the borders of Turkey and Turkey would have faced a new refugee crisis in this sense. And, of course, most importantly, in Operation Firat Shield, a dagger has been stuck in the heart of the political construction of the terrorist organization, which is to be created south of Turkey, under the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under the power vested in our government. These risks that threaten our safety are still active, and they need the powers required by this thesis. A new and significant development in our region that increases tension and security risks towards our country is the referendum decision by the Northern Iraqi Regional Kurdish Administration. Such a step is a step that can bring very dangerous consequences. It will cause the fault lines in the region to be re-activated and strongly activated. This referendum decision and its application could cause chain reactions, such an irresponsible step could cause an irreversible fire in the region. We already know and see that there are dangerous closeness between global forces in Syria from time to time. A study like this, after a referendum like this, could become much more visible and closer. The following should not be forgotten: The worst damage and suffering of such a referendum will be our friend and our brother, Northern Iraq, the Kurdish people. We have always been there for our brothers and sisters. We've given all kinds of support to avoid persecution, and we've opened our doors wide open. Later, we provided all kinds of support in terms of economic, cultural and security, and if they are able to sustain our Kurdish brothers and sisters in peace and quiet there today, it is thanks to Turkey's support and contribution. This must not be forgotten in any way. But this wrong decision by the administration will set this irresponsible decision on fire, setting the people of the region on fire. For the sake of personal political tax, the fire is fueled. The key rule in this region is that there should be no changes in demographic, ethnic, religious and political structure anywhere in this region. The moving of a brick on a very sensitive and fragile balance will destabilise all balances, new hatred, hate, conflict seeds, and will bring conflict that will not be predicted when it will end and possibly move to the global scale. The referendum will be able to pave the way for greater dangers and threats, especially a step that will result in the change of political borders. The referendum will increase the size and sides of the conflict in the region, even opening the door to a global-dimensional conflict environment. The referendum and implementation also pose a serious threat to our national security. The referendum, which the whole world opposes, except Israel, is to be kept in mind. It's a dangerous adventure for the locals. A referendum like this will always be a no-show for us, and it will have no value at all. In addition, Turkey will do what international law and international agreements give its rights and responsibilities to eliminate this danger. All tools and methods are on the table. All necessary measures are taken and taken. There will be no hesitation in the use of all these tools. This issue has been expressed with the highest determination and is shared with the public as a result of yesterday's National Security Council and Council of Ministers meetings. Iraq's territorial integrity, the unchanging of its political borders, and it has once again been stressed that it must remain within the framework of the Iraqi constitution. We demand, once again, that this adventure cease and desist, that the referendum be called off. There is no other way to ensure lasting security and stability in the region, except between the Iraqi Central government and the regional administration and the Iraqi constitution. As Turkey, I would like to say once again that we are ready for any support to resolve the problem through dialogue under the Iraqi constitution. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0003par0216	Mr. Secretary, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0002par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to stress that our country has the means and the ability to avoid threats and dangers. In particular, the steps taken in the defence industry in recent years and the huge increase in domestic production have greatly increased our mobility and strength. With this development, our allies' veiled embargo practices regarding certain products and parts do not hinder us from our path. It's only delaying the development of some defence products. Praise be to God, Turkey is a country today that develops technology in defence. In some areas, we compete with some of the best products in the world. Armed drones are only one of them. As of today, domestic production in defence industry products has increased by more than 65 per cent. Especially in missile and rocket systems, in the production of intelligent ammunition, in command, control and communications systems, Turkey has taken significant steps and made progress in defence industries in many areas, particularly these. This development in the defence industry has given us great advantage and ease in the fight against terrorism. Of course, we've got a long way to go in this area, we've got work to do. We see that the products and activities we've developed are disturbing and upsetting the terrorist organizations and those who directly or indirectly support them. ▪ Trying to support terrorism under human rights is unacceptable. Fear doesn't help at all. With our SIHA and all our other products, with our domestic products, we will continue to mount all the terrorists armed and unarmed. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, the unity of our state and the undivisable integrity of our state can never be discussed. There's no reason to justify terrorism. The attacks on the integrity of our state and the existence of our nation cannot be described as a search for rights by any group. Those who support terrorism, who can't show a clear and decisive attitude towards terrorists, should never forget that the greatest harm is done to our country and to our future, to our children's bright future. Turkey will continue its fight against terrorism at all costs, following an active policy aimed at taking an active role in its region and in the world. On this occasion, since the risk elements for Turkey are still increasing, I respectfully welcome your grand delegation, which will allow the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent across the border to be eliminated if necessary. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0004par0226	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sir, now it's time for the National Movement Party Deputy Director and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0005par0230	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the government's thesis to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I salute your honored delegation. First of all, in the Modular base area in Hakurk district of Hakkari Şemdinli district of Tekeli district, two of our soldiers have been injured in a traitorous attack by mortars and rockets from the Hakurk region of Iraq. To all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for our country and for our nation, I pray for the grace of God, and the speedy healing of our veterans. The developments and conditions of conflict on our southern borders directly threaten our national security. Against these developments, the deadline for the motion to take necessary measures in accordance with our rights to international law expires on October 30, 2017. With this thesis, the period is extended for another year. The reasons for the government's statement are extremely important. Turkey's national security risks and threats are growing along the southern borders, and unilateral separatist initiatives, with no legitimacy, are said to pose serious risks and threats to the future of our country. In Iraq and Syria, Turkey's continued existence of the PKK, the territorial integrity and stability of Iraq and Syria has been said to be a threat to regional peace, stability and the security of our country. It is vital for our national security to take the necessary measures in accordance with our rights to international law and bilateral agreements against acts that pose a danger to Iraq and Syria's territorial integrity and against our national security to create illegalities. It is Turkey's security, rights and interests, and the peace, peace and security of our region. The nationalist Movement Party stipulates that Turkish nation, Turkish state and Turkish country's brotherhood law be defended as a sacred relic. The National Movement Party has always acted on the principle of removing elements that threaten Turkey's security and protecting national rights and interests. The second issue is the end of Iraq and Syria's territorial integrity and the turmoil and conflict in the region. The problem needs to be addressed with countries in the region. Another important thing is to end the human drama caused by the conflict, to ensure that people who left their homes, their homes, their homes, and became refugees, live in peace and quiet in their own homes. According to us, the PKK, NYD, DEAS are the subsidiaries of global projects; they all threaten Turkey's security. The threat is directed directly at the Turkish nation. Turkey must face all national forces against the trial campaign that has been staged along our borders. Precious MPs have been staged in Syria since 2011, after the invasion of Iraq, a similar project to the country's ethnic and sectal disintegration project. Today, our neighboring two countries are on the verge of division. These civil wars in Syria and Iraq are deeply influenced not only by themselves but also by all the neighboring countries around it. Millions of people have left their homes in Syria, Turkey has accepted over 3 million refugees, Syria's territorial integrity has been severely damaged, and Syrian territory is being tried to be shared by DEAŞ, PKK/PYD, regime and SOO. Iraq is divided into autonomous zones, becoming a country of ethnic and religious conflicts every day, and Iraq is nearing extinction. The northern part of Iraq was ruled by Barzani, while Turkmen living in Mosul, Kerkuk and Tuzhurmatu were almost destroyed. In the north of Syria, the road to the terrorist organisation TYD-YPG has become a major security and beka threat to our borders. The civil war in Syria quickly turned into ethnic and religious conflicts. The PYD in Syria has been to the innocent Syrian people and the Turkmen in Mt. Turkmen, in Humus. In Syria, the coalition forces, who claimed to have been fighting the DEA in Syria, have allied themselves with the PYD, providing all kinds of weapons assistance, causing the PYD to be macheted in the region. In front of the screen, some countries that make themselves allies with us are the patrons and suppliers of terrorist organizations in our south. Our so-called friends and allies, who don't give Turkey weapons with their money, give terrorists state-of-the-art weapons for free. The support for weapons and ammunition that the United States has given to the YPG, the PKK, has become a national security issue. This would be a high warning from the Turkish nation of the Veterans, not only against terrorist organizations, but against terrorist organizations who support them, feed them, feed them. What happened is that in the Middle East, we have to cut off our own belly with our own hands. And that's how one of the dimensions of this thesis should be evaluated. For years, the National Movement Party has been persistently stepping on the warnings that are directed at these dirty relations in the Middle East. On 6 August 2012, a crescent-shaped security generation must be provided and executed in order to minimise threats to our country by warning environments, weapons and terror barons who want to form new states in the Middle East. On 26 February 2013, we stated that the imperial forces were working tirelessly to ensure the state status of the illegitimate construction in northern Iraq and Syria. In accordance with the government's decisions, our Turkish Armed Forces launched the operation of the Fırat Shield on August 24, 2016. This operation against our Syrian border was successfully completed on March 30, 2017, and measures to attack our country from the north of Turkey have been taken a small amount. However, as it is known, the threat to Turkey's southern border security and beka does not come only from the north of Syria. Those who wish to fulfill Sevr's dream are re-enacting a hundred-year-old play with Neighbour Barzani, north of Iraq. The pirate-independence referendum initiative, which was intended to be held on September 25th, revisits the imperialist Sevr dream. It's actually a hundred years of reckoning. That's what's important about this thesis. This argument will not only be a threat to our southern borders, but a loud opposition to all forces that are hostile to Turkey. Today, there will be a strong and decisive voice against the pirate referendum initiative of September 25, 2017, which threatens the Beka and integrity of our country. This illegitimate and unacceptable pirate referendum must be called off before it's too late. On June 7th, 25th, we will hold a referendum on Barzani, which will pave the way for independence. From the moment he said it, the National Movement Party has made it clear. As the National Movement Party, we have stated that the referendum cannot be allowed, that the harshest echo of Iraq's territorial integrity will be felt in Turkey, that those playing with the referendum fire will burn themselves. Here, today, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you will be given the message from Ankara to Erbil. It is a statement of determination that the Turkish nation will use its national power to the full. With this thesis, we are absolutely certain that we are not joking about being seen overnight, that we are not playing games, that we are willing to risk anything for Turkey's stay. We have made it clear that the Turkmen living in Iraq and Syria cannot be suppressed, despised, torn from their land and homes by any means possible. Those who covet our relatives' habitats should stop pushing the Turkish nation's patience even harder, seeking to raise the bar for their earlier ethnic liquidation through a referendum. This provocation will not be in the best interest of the expired Barzani. The wind will reap the storm that sows. In the north of Iraq and Syria, every illegal and hostile move must be stopped by Turkey without fear, and our borders must be secured using all our means. There's no other way now. We know that if the threat to our nation is not destroyed in its focus, the challenges of defending our homeland will come to pass. If Ankara is to be safe, if Diyarbakır remains at peace, it is a warning of history and geopolitics that Kerkuk, Musul, Aleppo, and Aleppo will be in heaven. The status of Kerkuk and Mosul (Turkish-Iraq border) within the Islamic borders was arranged with Article 3 of the Lausanne Treaty. The Ankara Agreement dated June 5th 1926, which is a complementary document of Lausanne, which is the basis of this provision, has been determined by the status of Iraq. In the same agreement, Turkey will have the right to speak on all decisions that are considered or will be made on the basis of the property, sovereignty, or any form of governance on this land. In addition, the principle of friendship and cooperation with Iraq in 1946 and of border security in 1983 and the indivisibility of the borders of the United Nations member states strengthens the legal infrastructure that demonstrates the rightness of Turkey's thesis. Therefore, we are facing the end of Barzani's pirate referendum, which includes Turkishmen's cities, in accordance with our rights from history and law. This referendum is a sneaky preliminary act, a dark vanguard move. This referendum is entirely against Turkmen, Turkey, all the people of the region and this geography. This pirate referendum is illegitimate, unacceptable; it is an initiative with dire consequences, a direct threat to Turkey. Turkey's rights to international and bilateral agreements are good and strong. For this reason, the Republic of Turkey is obliged to use self-defense and intervention against any actions, preparation, editing, conspiracy, and aggressive motives that threaten its back, target its sovereignty rights directly, endangering its presence and unity. No force can direct Turkey, no one can wave a finger at the Republic of Turkey. We break the fingers of those who wave their fingers at us. Dear lawmakers, whenever our state's sovereignty, our nation's future is threatened and threatened, the National Movement Party has given its support and will continue to give its support to state institutions to fight it. Because if there's a chance of an attack on our country, if our national security is threatened by terrorist organizations, it's a national defense, above all. With this feeling and thought, I would like to say that we will vote in favor of the Government's motion party as a party of nationalists, and I salute your esteemed delegation.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0006par0251	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second word for the groups is for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0255	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, parliaments made up of the free will of the nation, the people, are a temple to democratic values. Parliaments have no legitimacy over the will of the nation, no custody and no coup. On behalf of my group, while I have received a pledge of dissertation on November 4th, on behalf of our co-Chairs Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, Group Deputys İdris Baluken, Çağlar Demirel and all the other MPs in five different cities, who have been arrested in a political operation, unfair and unlawfully and unlawfully detained, and still being held in prison by a coup, I salute you with respect, with love, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Once again, for all 10 lawmakers currently in prison: this attack on the will of the nation, this hostage holding process, this regime of oppression is illegitimate. In this state of indecency, the country is now drifting into a different form of impropriety. We are political parties who feel differently under the roof of this Parliament. If we thought like each other, we wouldn't need to have different parties. This thesis, in essence, is a proof of our rights, despite the entire coup law, the whole aberration law, within almost three years of time. History has proved us right once again. The AKP-MHP alliance and its alliance with other evil organizations have brought this country face to face with great misfortunes that it has never witnessed in its history in almost three years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, the thesis that we're going to discuss today, the statement that will be submitted to our votes, had no urgency as of today. The thesis -- which is now in effect, the troubled one -- has 40 days to live, and in nine days, Parliament will already meet in its routine, and when the day comes, if need be, it will be approved once again. Why is this statement put in front of the public and before the National Assembly today? Because, for almost three years, the government has transformed a country into a means of extending its own administration by building a regime of oppression, by polarizing its entire Middle East geography and integrating it in the country, by creating a regime of oppression, by building it, by building it, by creating its own regime, by making it a means of legitimizing it by passing its illegitimate policy through Parliament. And with that dignity, I stand for democracy, for the will of the nation, for rights, for freedoms; I am against the regime of emergency; I am against the ordinances of the law. Everyone who says, "No." Any person who comes with the will of the nation and says, "It is by the will of the nation. " My dear friends, this thesis has another purpose: we've been trying to express it all over our geography for almost three years; racism, extreme nationalism, war and conflict can only be the disaster of a society. There's only one way to get a society out of disaster, and that is to keep justice, peace, freedom, protect and protect it. This statement is clearly the declaration of the hostility of 40 million Kurdish people. My dear brothers, Kurdish people, like the Turkish people, like the Armenian people, like the Assyrian people, the Suryani people, like the people of Fars, are the original, honorable people and owners of this geography, such as the Arab people. In this geography, the entire Middle East geography will continue to be a board of imperial goals unless the demand for right freedom, the demand for peace, the right demand for co-existence is met. If the imperials are javelin in the Middle East today, it is not only the fault of the imperials, it is not only the sin of the Middle East, but the result of the fact that the Middle East states do not respond to the voices, the longings, the demands of their own people, the demand for justice. If you create wounds, others will, of course, scratch them. See, this geography, for the first time in the history of the republic, has broken down a memorised table, a negotiating table, a dialogue table to resolve the Kurdish problem in peaceful ways. That negotiating table, that dialogue table, was knocked down to power alone, isolated, and so far, we've lost more than 3,000 lives, citizens, professions, we've lost, we've buried. As if that weren't enough, it was once again a return to nearly all the policies of 70 years. Look, why would it be illegal for a public to go to a referendum, to appeal to the people's will, to ask them to reveal what that will is? Why should a right that is legitimate to you and a right that is just be illegitimate to the Kurdish people? As far as we're concerned, the people of southern Kurdistan have been having a series of crises with the Kurdistan Regional Administration, the Federal Baghdad Government, as long as some of the rights of the Iraqi Constitution have not been living on the 140th Amendment. It's a referendum that people have applied to inoculation of these crises and that will reveal whatever will it is. If the referendum was illegitimate, why did this country apply for a referendum on April 16th, and why did it go to the will of the nation? If an issue of legitimacy is to be discussed, today 88 municipalities have been appointed trustees to municipalities elected by the will of the nation, and at the moment those trustees are under the nation's will, acting under the law of occupation and exploitation. In the State of Emergency, those who emerge from the grounds of legitimacy will have no value or value to speak of legitimacy on the international floor. Besides, we accept the will of all the peoples living in the Kurdistan region, the Assyrians, the Armenians, our Turkish brothers, their Kurdish brothers, whatever their will, their total will, and we now know that traffic between Kurdistan Regional Management and the Baghdad regime is still in dialogue. Therefore, whether this traffic goes to the referendum after this, or whether the referendum is postponed, whatever the will of the people of Kurdistan, whatever the will of their people is, our head is our own, and whatever will comes out of the chest is ours to accept upon our heads. It is not for any soul to have power or authority to threaten the will of another people. If thesis, war decisions, occupations, exploitation law had yielded a result, we would have solved this problem dozens of times by now, there would be no problem. Now that government officials have come out, they say that Iraq is a territorial integrity. You have no such concern. See the posting of the Prime Minister from his Twitter address. Mr. Prime Minister, when the crisis with Ibadi took place, you rightly told Ibadi: "The rule of Kurdistan is our legitimate business, and from now on we will continue all our business relations, all our oil agreements, all our economic relations through that administration." What changed and changed that day's friend became the enemy of today, and what changed? And every chance you get, you talk about territorial integrity, peace and stability. For God's sake, Mohammed, for Christ's sake, Ali, whatever you believe in, is there stability in the Middle East, is there peace in the Middle East? All human values are under heavy attack. It's not enough that these human values are under heavy attack, you're trying to pour gasoline into the fire. It's not a solution; it's a solution. The right of nations to decide their own destiny is universal, legitimate, and sacred. As legitimate to the Palestinian people as it is to the people of Catalonia, as legitimate to the Scottish people, it is lawful and legitimate as it is to the Kurds and to the people of Kurds and to the people of Kurds. The solution to the problem is not in Turkey's Kurdistan, neither in Iraq, nor in Syria, nor in Rojava's Kurdistan, nor in Rojahlat, but as HDP, we do not see the solution to the problem in violence, in conflict, in war, in death, and in killing, there is no solution to the problem. How would you describe a country? You can also measure the number of bullet holes in the body of those people who died for that country, with their peaceful policies, with their fair policies, with their scientists, with their scientists, with their scholars, with their footballers, with their values. It doesn't change the reality of the country, but the personality of those who define the country is very important to the human identity. I come from Ahmadi Hani's tradition, at all costs, as a son of my nation, fighting to sustain my language, my culture, my identity, am I committing a crime? You are from the culture, tradition of Aliya Izetbegovic. Look, he calls upon you, Mr. Prime Minister, to today's generations: to be human, no matter what the circumstances, and to remain human. For God's sake, for 70 years, did the Kurdish people remain human in Middle Eastern geography, in both the Ankara regime and Baghdad and the Damascus regime, as well as the implementation of the Tehran regime? Look, where did these policies get this country? Arbitrations, war, death, provocation, look what you've achieved, what you've achieved. What has ever been accomplished with the reviews, and what will be accomplished after that? There's one thing that's been accomplished, indeed, is that the 78-year-old Mother Hatun's funeral has been removed from her grave, and you've achieved the success of this city not being buried in this capital's cemetery. So, all of these policies don't stop here, all of this talk doesn't stop here; in the genetics of society, it's different in the mindset, it's destroying the co-existence of life together. This dissertation itself is a problem for this country. I want to point out that this dissertation itself, the logic of this thesis, the philosophy of Kurdish hostility itself, is a problem in this country. If you think about this country at all, if anyone thinks about this country at all, they should first say no to this thesis. Once again, this may be one of the best opportunities to take geography off the field of conflict, the votes you're going to take today. And with that respect, I call on all Parliaments, just as in 2003, let's say, come, come, come, let's say no to this declaration of war, let's say no to this thesis of hostility, let's say, come, come, let's say no to the hatred that has turned Middle Eastern geography into a pool of blood, revenge, rejection, all together. If you'll excuse me, there are people here from Ummet tradition right now. Is not the Truth the One who created us for a people? The law of the people you belong to is the law of the people I belong to. To ask the Palestinian people to shed tears for Myanmar together, but when it comes to Kurds, let Kurds be damned. You have made a leap to Ankara's policy. It is shameful, it is a sin, it is a sin, it is a sin, do not do this evil to this country. Today in this Parliament, I appeal to my brothers and sisters, who are members of the parliament, who are the maintainers of this political leadership, to the right of the nations to determine their own fate, and the political leadership, leadership, freedom that you are following now, is my character. If independence and freedom are your character, why not this character for the Kurdish people, your brother, the Kurdish people you claim to be your brother? Why should this be seen so much? After the referendum, it is not yet clear what decision either the Kurdistan Regional Administration or the Federal Government of Iraq will make, depending on the referendum of its government. Why would the South Kurdistan government be a threat to this place? Why would Rojava's Kurdistan be a threat to this place? Why should I? Not a single pebble has been thrown into this country, despite all provocations by the people of Kurdistan, the Kurdish people of Rojava, who live in Syria. One of the geographys this country has made most of its foreign trade volume and imports for the past ten years is southern Kurdistan. Bringing this statement today, however and only as a threat, is not only threatening Kurds who are in HDP opinion, but Kurds who are in HDP opinion are not only hurting; all Kurds who voted for all political parties under the roof of this Parliament are coding it as a threat, an insult, an injustice. That's division, that's division. Not much, but a few years ago, the Kurdish people offered an opportunity in 2013 to all the cultures, to all the languages, to all the nations that had given life to all the geography of the Middle East, a political ground where all the peoples, all the communities, all the sects, all the sects, could create an equal, free, brotherly life. What did you do? You kicked the Dolmabahçe agreement and the negotiating table. Why, for what? For the sake of two things: do not let the Kurds have status in Syria, in Rojava, in Syria. So, a country with a population of 20 million...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0278	Make up your mind, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0279	...sees the referendum in south Kurdistan as a threat to him? Because you don't have a mecal left to solve the Kurdish problem, to live together on the basis of equal citizenship with Kurds, and to solve the problem, you don't have a policy. Why? Because you've formed false alliances. Those false alliances of yours have loaded you with luggage, and every chance you get, you go out to society, the people, the whole world is one, and you say, "The world is against us." You made the wrong alliance, you went out on the field with the wrong argument. You chose war when there was peace. Once again, saying yes to this statement means yes to the state of emergency, yes to the laws of the law. Saying yes to this thesis means opening the door to the slaughter of the Kurdish and Turkish people and the people and the people of this geography. If there's a fire in my house, Mr. President, it'll jump into your house.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0281	Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0282	You were going to give me three minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0283	No, sir, I think that's enough, and your statements...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0284	Why?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0009par0285	Why?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0286	No, sir, the credit is mine. And your statements...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0287	How many minutes have you given the other speakers, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0288	Look, Mr. Osman, I beg you. Wait a minute... wait a minute... I didn't cut your speech so it wouldn't ruin the integrity. You've got statements from head to toe to toe. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, I want the records right now, I'm going to review the records. One, for example, I've just detected...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0291	I salute you all with respect, love, respect. .....
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0293	Osman Bey...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0007par0294	Long live freedom, long live justice, may live an honorable peace!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0010par0296	Down with the PKK!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0297	Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0011par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0299	Just a minute, Mr. Naci. For example, I'm not speaking because there aren't any reports yet...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0012par0301	Do you have to interfere with everything, for God's sake?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0302	No, ma'am. The alliance with the AK PARTY, MHP and other evil centers... is not the focus of evil here. This roof is the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0012par0304	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0008par0305	Partition here cannot be discussed in the direction of division, division, division of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm about to get a report. No, sir, it's not secular, it's people. Freedom doesn't mean he has the right to speak as much as he can. Freedom is not about trampling on national, spiritual values. You have very sad expressions. I'm going to examine the restraint, then I'm going to ask you for a concession, and I'm going to ask for an apology.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0012par0309	From where, what's it like?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0013par0310	What kind of president is that?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0014par0311	You're not the party president.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0015par0312	Yes, sir, under the authority of the Civil Code. Here you are, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0314	Mr. President, the speaker said that the PATI-MHP alliance and the alliance of evil centers...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0017par0315	There's no need to ask after being president like that.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0316	...described a legitimate political party as an allied party with the focus of evil. That's an obvious insult. Second, it's a declaration of hostility towards the Kurdish people of 40 million people regarding the thesis.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0018par0318	That's right.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0019par0319	That's right.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0320	...unfair, unconcerned with disputation, and, in turn, if you look at the results, he's used a language that has reached Kurdish hostility. I demand word in this frame.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0020par0321	Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Bostanci, you have three minutes to talk.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0326	Mr. President, dear friends, the AK PARTY is a legitimate party. So it's important to everyone that people don't speak -- I'm so sorry -- that they don't say the words over their heads, that they use language in a way that is appropriate to the parliament's environment, the legitimate line, Mr. Osman. Second: there is an imperial vision for Middle Eastern geography. The tradition you come from, what's going on here, actually reads in terms of the solution of power-ideology. Don't you see that Kurds are being used here as an instrument of that imperial vision? Don't you see that the people are trying to create a bossship against each other, that the Kurds are trying to build structures to use as part of their own vision by pretending that they don't have status for Kurds? Who's the Kurdish enemy?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0021par0328	You.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0329	The Kurdish enemy is Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). There's been an organization in this country that has been pouring blood over and over again for decades, instigating people against one another, creating an atmosphere of hatred, hatred, and hatred. Once in your mouth, against the organization that provokes people together like this, what you're doing is not right, if you want to build a future of peace and peace, these provocations, these acts of hatred and hypocrisy are not true. Did you say that? You didn't. Who did the PKK's people kill most during that time? He also killed Kurds who didn't bow down to them. You sound like the patron of the Kurds. Have you ever had a reprimand against PKK people who once killed Kurds? You're talking about 40 million-dollar Kurds. The PYD is trying to build a state there. You know exactly why it was founded, and you know who was trying to build it. Did you say that while the PYD is out there beating the shit out of Kurds who don't fit their own heads, you're being handed over to the Kurds here once? Which Kurd did you claim?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0022par0332	They have no hearts, their hearts!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0016par0333	The Kurds you claim are just Kurds who are on your side politically. Against the other Kurds... yes, the PKK killed them. What did you do? You continued to insult the Kurds who didn't vote for you during election time. You come in here and you talk like you're the patron of the Kurds. Yours truly.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0336	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Osman...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0024par0338	Mr. President, you're picking on...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0339	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0024par0340	...and he's got a hard-on with the matter of overstepping the length of his head. If you'll excuse me, I took the meter from there...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0341	I'll take a look at the records, see if they're ready for the hearing.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0024par0343	Mr. President, look, I don't think you should...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0344	I'll look at the records, I'll evaluate them before the hearing's over.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0024par0345	Look, you're discrimination right now.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0346	Sir, the credit is mine.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0025par0347	Mr. President, the promise of transcendence has been used in terms of transcendence.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0348	I understand, sir. Over.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0026par0349	You're losing your neutrality, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0350	Mr. President, is this the way you're going to...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0023par0351	I don't understand.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0352	I'll tell you if you promise.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0028par0353	Why don't you talk to him about his attitude? It's not like he's president.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0354	I'd like to speak as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0355	Yes, take your seat for a minute.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0358	Is that how you intend to conduct the session?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0359	Yeah.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0360	You're really used to the lack of freedom of expression and, I think, people being in prison in this environment, and you want life to go on like this. How did you get up and talk to a preacher about his thoughts? You did this. I'm going to have it examined, I'm going to make you apologize...... once, you'll have to examine it anyway, even if that's the case. I'm going to make an apology. Using the word "I'm sorry" and not making promises when there's bullying is not in the way of this Assembly. We certainly condemn that. In addition to the Kurdish people here, our disciple said, "Asuriler"; he said, "The oppressed who live there"; he spoke of all the peoples. If this Parliament has a way of not making promises, then there's no way this House is going to continue.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0363	Here you are, sir. You've spoken.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0364	This House has nothing left to go on.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0365	That's your opinion, don't read intent.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0366	Of course it's my opinion.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0367	Ma'am, please... You've made a statement.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0368	I made a statement and expressed my opinion.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0369	I believe you have the Civil Code ahead of you, please turn to 67.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0370	You have the Civil Code in front of you as well.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0371	Open... the Internal Charter...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0372	I am in no position to do such a thing with your words.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0373	Ma'am, I heard you. Well, okay. Now, let's look at 67.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0027par0375	You guys check it out.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0376	▪ Anyone who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly immediately invites the President to speak in a clean language, although he insists he does not use a clean language. If the president sees the need, he can remove anyone from the hall in that merger. I'm acting under the authority vested in me. You have studied the law, read some of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0030par0380	What was rude about him?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0381	Sir, I said I'd look into it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0031par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0030par0383	What was so rude?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0384	Sir, I said I'd look into it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0032par0385	Mr. President, proceed with the procedure.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0033par0386	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0387	Sir?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0033par0388	I'd like to make a statement, if I may.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0389	What's he saying he wants to do?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0034par0390	Explanation!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0035par0391	Explanation! Main language education is essential!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0029par0392	I understand, sir. I'll call you, go ahead. Sir, now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0036par0399	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Iraqi and Syrian resolution. I salute the High Council. Today is a historic day, an important moment. Parliament has been called to an extraordinary meeting, but the number of ministers is almost greater than the number of MPs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] First you have to figure out where this is coming from, how it happened, and then what to do... Now, in 2005, after Iraq was invaded, you know, the American government appointed Bremer. Bremer served and drafted the draft of the Iraqi Constitution. In 2005, after the temporary law was over, the Iraqi Constitution was drafted. It was Mesut Barzani, who prepared the Constitution of Iraq -- along with America -- that violated that constitution today.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0037par0404	Don't worry about Barzani!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0036par0405	This needs to be known first. There are some provisions in the Constitution of Iraq now related to the Constitution. Iraq's Constitution is sitting on a federal system, and there is a regional Kurdish government that is part of the federal system, which consists of the regional Kurdish administration, Erbil, Suleimaniye and Duhok, and defines a specific area according to the Iraqi Constitution. Now, this referendum goes beyond this regional Kurdish administration. In other words, Musul, Kerkuk and Diyala, which are normally considered the controversial region of Iraq, also includes Tuzhurmatu. First of all, this referendum initiative is problematic in three ways: One, it does not apply to international law and legitimacy. Why? Because the latest decision by the United Nations Security Council in accordance with the Iraqi Aid Mission was adopted by the Security Council a month ago is called this: Iraq's territorial integrity, unity, sovereignty is under oath. So the international community is committed to Iraq's territorial integrity in terms of legitimacy. In addition, this referendum initiative violates the Constitution of Iraq. In no article of the Constitution of Iraq, the back of Iraq will be bent tomorrow, and there will be an ISIS plague, and it will weaken Iraq, so it will go to a referendum there. The third issue is that this referendum initiative is contrary to the constitution written by the regional Kurdish administration, which is contrary to the constitution and the internal constitution, because the constitution does not hold a referendum. There's a saying. Wow, sir, it could be a referendum. Let me explain: According to the 140th Amendment of the Constitution of Iraq -- rather, in the constitution that Mesut Barzani wrote at the time -- three provinces are being taken, formed as the Kurdish regional administration, and we can take other places in the future. The status of Musul, Kerkuk and Diyala is left as a controversial region. So 140 is also given a period of time for the operation of the article, which ended on December 31st, 2007. So there is no reference to the referendum today, and the referendum is essentially a regulation on whether these regions should remain a regional Kurdish administration, Baghdad, or a separate autonomous zone, but never leaving the country, opening a path to independence through a separate referendum; this is what happens. Now, how did it get to this point? Respected MPs, Barzani was first strengthened. First of all, Barzani has grown stronger. Why? Because his approach to Iraq by the Iraqi Constitution, which was passed on by the Iraqi Central Government from 2010 to 2014, with no respect for the Iraqi Constitution, has weakened the Iraqi Central Government and has strengthened Barzani. This is not just our determination; this is the determination of Iraq, and this is the determination of the international community. Barzani, in the hands of some 200,000 barrels of illegal oil -- about 200,000 barrels of illegal oil, released under the regional Kurdish administration -- 300,000 barrels of KYB (a day-on-day-to-day) -- in the hands of KDP -- the local Kurdish government has submitted the money to the international market through Turkey, and the AKP has provided it. Second, trade, trade in Habur. 7,000 trucks pass by a day, and the regional Kurdish administration unloads those trucks. The regional Kurdish administration is also reeksporting as if it were an independent state, which brings almost $1 billion, $2 billion a month from here to Iraq. Third, no matter how many international firms want to do business today, they either have to give Barzani a certain rate or there are no guarantees of it. The AKP has also strengthened Barzani politically. Why? Because the minister said, "What if, like this, this is a project in the region, it's a 100-year project. So, if this is a 100-year project, why did you put a red carpet under Barzani and greet it?" Why did you pull the flag? Why did you go to Diyarbakır Square and get the people to applaud? Also, why did you call the AKP convention and make Turkey proud of you? Why did you make this mistake knowing that it was a historical, political -- admissible? Now, the second thing that strengthens Barzani is that after 2014, the ISIS plague begins because the Iraqi army is disbanding, ISIS is going to the gates of Baghdad, and the international community is helping Baghdad more than ever; weapons, ammunition, military aid and training aid. At the same time, we are camping in Başika, where we have trained aniversaries, Musul (Musul) is participating in the regional Kurdish administration today, where the referendum is held one by one and joins the regional Kurdish administration. The camp you set up is benefiting the pessimer today. Then why did you do it? Besides, it's the Kerkuk thing today. You see, the Governor of Kerkuk is being deposed, but he won't accept it. You see, the Iraqi Parliament is canceling this referendum, but they're not responding. The Iraqi court doesn't accept it, makes a decision and stops the referendum; it's being rejected. Then do those who oppose this Iraqi territorial integrity want to violate it? Iraq is a member of the international community today, and the territorial integrity of Iraq is essential. Now, I'll tell you this: So the first element was that AKP backed him up. When we look at the international community, the international community -- it's saying something on paper, but -- we have to say that it's the biggest help in the fight against ISIS. Well, now, that means Barzani has grown stronger, Baghdad has weakened, and Turkey and Tehran have also weakened because you're having a bankruptcy in foreign policy, a bankruptcy situation because you can't get him to listen to you. You entertain Barzani here, you feed him, you give him drink him, you send him his flag, but they don't listen when you say, "Don't do it." So you've weakened yourself, weakened yourself in internationally, the power of your word. Besides, another country to put the brakes on it, Iran has also weakened. You've lost weight; you've been surrounded by Turkey's foreign policy, all of its failures, Iran has weakened. Why? Because the new government in the United States uses the nuclear agreement as a threat to Iran and binds Iran's hands. Well, wouldn't that be a good environment for Barzani? Of course, Barzani wants to benefit from such an environment and go to a referendum. Now, I'd like to point out that you gathered yesterday, and today you called an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. Yeah, what did you talk about? So that's it... look, all the TVs are filming you, what did you guys talk about? What did you do? Do you know what you've decided or what you've decided? Sir, we're taking these. You haven't even coordinated with Iran yet, what happened to coordinate? The Chief of Staff from Baghdad is just arriving. And you're really taking this seriously, are you doing this for the illusion? If you create an image and we want to do something. If you say, and then you don't do it, your credit rating is going to be completely ruined; look, I'll tell you this. So, what are you going to do, I mean, how intimate can you be? Now, you're training there, and the trucks are buzzing through Habur. And what kind of contradiction is that? Two, you say you're defending the territorial integrity of Iraq, and Barzani's office is still standing. Barzani has a separate office in Ankara. Are you really taking this seriously, or are we just going to stall and create an agenda anyway? First of all, you have to be clear here because you're not going to say anything you don't do in foreign policy, and you have to do everything you say. Turkey's credit rating is above all else, and the interests of this nation, the rights of this nation, are entrusted to you as a government, but you're not doing it. Now, Mr. Secretary, we can say that with the regional Kurdish administration, we can improve relations at the highest level as long as Iraq remains in territorial integrity; we are not against it. The mechanism to determine the future of other peoples in Iraq is within the Constitution of Iraq, but that mechanism is the mechanism of being a region, not the mechanism of independence. So, for example, in the future, if the Turkmen want to build a majority in Kerkuk, they can build a separate region. So Musul can create a separate region, but that doesn't mean that without any solution here, without any compromise here, before a situation like the Czechs and the Slovaks emerges, I make a decision by myself, I take a step alone; I don't know the international community; I don't know the Iraqi Constitution; I don't know the voices, I don't listen. I'm afraid Mr. Barzani is wrong to say that it's wrong, and it's wrong to say that Mr. Barzani is dragging his territory. Now, of course, we would never want war on our territory. Who wants war? Our founder, the savior of this country, who built this country, said, "Peace in yurtta, peace in Jihan." We don't want war, there's enough war in our region, there's enough blood and tears. But you're the main reason for the subcontractorization of the region because you tried to overthrow the Damascus regime in Syria, and you tried to overthrow Maliki in Iraq because you're a sect, really, religion has brought Turkey to this point. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Sir, good, the visas were up, everything was up, so why did we come this way, why did we come here? There was trade, people were celebrating friendship in the Aleppo market. Today there is hatred against Turkey. Can't you see, can't you hear, don't you ever travel in this area? There's a hate. For the first time, Turkey has caused a Muslim geography to be touched by an outside hand. Because Turkey has put international political barons, oilmen, international clerks in a place that should be its own normal backyard, and you can't get rid of it. Mr. Minister said that if the Firat Shield hadn't started today, ISIS would have left the area and PYD-YPG would have come to that area. (Applause) Today the main reason for the existence of ISIS, Al Nusra, NYD, PKK, all terrorist organizations is the fetishism of overthrowing Assad, and today it is the failure to meet a policy with Maliki, with Maliki, with Maliki at the time, to look at today's Ibadi. Today in our geography, countries that will never agree with each other are coming together and looking for a way through a plan. Look, three or four days ago, Barzani sat at the table with whom he sat on the Iraqi consortium. Do you know what the referendum should be postponed? They have representatives of the United States, England and France, ambassadors. So, where's our ambassador? You were friends with Barzani, you were brothers? You don't have to complain, you're using this language wrong, you're saying Donald, my friend Donald, he's bringing the same truckload, he's giving 1,400 guns to the PYD you call our enemy. Now, you don't speak that diplomatic language. You say Putin, my friend, and Afrin is trying to drown you. Either you create a sense of it in society. We're good with all sides. You're doing it to say -- which is -- or you're cheating and now you're complaining. I personally don't see any of this as a valid excuse. Now, this referendum, there's time... we have a call to Mr. Barzani: we don't want to turn back so many gains here. Look, we want to invest in Erbil. We want to expand Habur. We want to create a larger trade volume, but your unilateral step is subcontractorizing the area. You're not going to independence, you're going to an addiction process after this referendum. He needs to know that, and he needs to stop this referendum somehow while the road is close. Let's take this referendum decision, it's one thing to apply it anyway. So we'll negotiate, we'll gas the international community, we'll gas Turkey, we'll sort it out somehow. Look, there's a fracture here. We, through Barzani, don't want to have a relationship with Kurds, like AKP did, the Kurds are our brothers. We don't want to contact the administration of just one person while complaining about the management of one person over here, and we're opposed to one person holding the contract of that area; Barzani is not the only one living there. Look how well you say it; what about the Suryans, the Assyrians, the Keldanis, the Yezidi and the other elements that live there, the Turkmen, what about them? Who's willing to join? So, you get up in the morning, and a will decides from Erbil, and it leads you to the chest. Who would buy that? No one's gonna buy that. To that end, you must be absolutely opposed to an attempt that has no legitimacy, no international legitimacy. That's what we're saying. If there were a way: If Baghdad and Erbil had sat down and agreed that if they had said that we were leaving when the Constitution of Iraq was written, they would have said, "What is the matter with you? What is the matter with you?" They would have said, "They are sitting down." There's no such deal here. In the rebellion of Baghdad, see, Tehran doesn't want it, Ankara doesn't want it, none of the Arabs in the Middle East wants it, only Israel. I'll tell you: the biggest mistake the AKP made was the Syrian file. Why? Because Israel wanted to cut that line, which began in Tehran, and was strengthened in Assad, and in Damascus, strengthened in Hezbollah and Lebanon, and strengthened in Hamas, and strengthened in Palestine, and made you do it in Syria. Now look, because of the nuclear threat and because of its own safety, Israel wants Barzani to do it this time in the region, and Barzani wants to use it as a curtain against Iran. Today, all of Barzani's idea of a referendum will begin the process that can become a subcontractor of another force tomorrow. Well, if that's what they want, we'll see.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0038par0432	Would you please wrap it up, sir?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0036par0433	Mr. President, I won't go any further. We are not for war, but for deterrents in the region, for the sake of Turkey, for the welfare of all our brothers and sisters in the region... Turkey is a great state, a state with experience, and a country with properties that can guide when necessary. Our words may differ for others, but let's say that we want the best for everyone, and we want this referendum to stop as soon as possible, and we support this statement in this framework. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0039par0437	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the groups, the last word belongs to İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0040par0441	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group regarding a notice issued by the Prime Minister's Office on October 2, 2014, on the request that the permission granted to our Supreme Assembly be extended for a year under Article 92 of the Constitution, if necessary by the Turkish Armed Forces, be sent to foreign countries for cross-border operations and intervention. I hereby salute the High Council. Before I begin with my words, we have martyrs today, and I ask God's mercy, and I pray to our brothers and sisters who are veterans in the same attack, and to God's mercy, who have shed their blood for all our martyrs and for their country, and who have given their lives to keep our flag straight. Mr. President, the issue of today's thesis is that our country can use its resources if necessary, after the very serious developments in Iraq and Syria, if necessary, to activate its military powers where diplomacy ends. Of course, if we start with Iraq first, we're a really critical point in Iraq, and the point that we've come to today with Iraq actually grieves us, because we've continued our relations with Iraq, and especially with this region, which was established legitimately in this arrangement that the Iraqi Constitution had given us, in which I worked for 39 years in the Foreign Office, and later in the government of the presidents. I've had a really hard time understanding some of what my previous speaker friend said here. I'm beginning to think that this friend of ours, who's been working with us for many years on the Foreign Office, has been listening very carefully to the issues he's expressed here, and I'm beginning to think that he doesn't really understand what happened in Iraq. When Turkey establishes good relations with Iraq and the administration in northern Iraq, it is a relationship with a legitimate authority based entirely on the Constitution of Iraq. The trade and the accession of our investors are not an illegal operation, and it is not an operation to enrich it, to export oil, to allow it to export oil from it, but it is a relationship that the Iraqi Constitution of Iraq has given to that region and Iraq's Kurdish Regional Administration is legitimate. But when Iraq's Kurdish Regional Government has made moves to reveal the picture that we're facing today, then because this legitimacy from the Constitution of Iraq has been eliminated, we're having these meetings today to make sure that we don't get involved with the Iraqi Regional Kurdish Government, which we're in the same friendly relationship, which we're in, that we're in touch with, that we're not now in another relationship with. In the current picture, if the Iraqi Regional Kurdish Government holds this referendum, then it will be in violation of the Constitution of Iraq, and we will not be able to maintain relations with a government that has acted contrary to the Constitution of Iraq. That's the difference, and that's the point where my friend, who spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group before that, I think, needs to be corrected. Besides, there's something else I don't really describe. In a sense, I'd rather have a friend who's served in the Foreign Office for years, who's had his share of the Ministry's bread, vilified the State Department as if he'd fallen out of the sky in politics, and the State Department in an attitude that would give him the illusion that all of its policies have gone wrong and that the true sense of loyalty had been completely destroyed, and I myself, as an older brother who had served in the same corridors, and I'd like to make sure and wish that it didn't happen. Another concern is that Turkey has only associated with Sunnis, it has done its strategies according to Sunnis, and it has changed all its programs according to the Shiites, which I find very difficult to understand because Turkey has always followed a policy that has given special importance to Iraq's territorial integrity, to Iraq's friendly relations, to the use of Iraqi resources by all Iraq. How, then, is it possible to explain our relationship with Iran, our friendly relationship with the Shiites, our unchanging border since the 1639 Kasr Agreement? I've actually listened to this conversation with sadness, as far as all these points are concerned, and I'd rather this approach didn't take part in this conversation. Now, of course, we have an important situation. Unfortunately, first, a decision was made to hang the flag of Kurdistan next to the Iraqi flag in Kerkuk. Of course, that was extremely wrong, and then, in addition to that, a step has come up with the additional decisions that have been made that the constitution has envisioned, that the Iraqi Constitution has also moved out of the region, and that, with a referendum, will allow this region to go to independence. Of course, it's certainly not possible to accept this, and in Iraq, the most beautiful feature that has made Iraq a friendly country south of us so far is a plurality of Kurds, Turks, Arabs, Ezidis, Celdanis and other social groups, and it's a beautiful mosaic, and when it's broken down, Iraq has always been troubled, and it has always affected the entire region. But, of course, this beautiful mosaic can only be preserved on the basis of territorial integrity, and the beginning of a process of ethnic integration, the entering of this kind of process, the being driven into an ethnic and religious conflict, means that the terrorist organisations have reached an environment that they fully desire, gain power, and it could cost thousands of lives, and it could certainly start a new mass migration wave. The situation of our Turkmen brothers, one of the three founding elements of Iraq, which we consider a bridge of friendship between us and this country, is also closely monitored and watched with concern. Turkmen have been one of the most affected by the current security and political situation in Iraq. Since June 2014, more than 300,000 of our Turkmen brothers have been displaced in the country, nearly 100,000 have taken refuge in Turkey. Our support for Turkmen's security and human needs continues uninterrupted. Turkey has made its position clear and clear at every stage, with statements made from the beginning of the problem. We also need Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, who have maintained intensive diplomatic traffic and have delivered decisive messages about the possible consequences and attitude of this initiative. On the grounds of the General Assembly of the United Nations, various contacts were held in New York. Mr. President, President Trump of the United States, President Macron of France, and Prime Minister May of England and Secretary General Guterres of the United Nations have also brought up the talks as one of the most important issues on the agenda in their meeting with the IKBY. One of the most important meetings is the meeting of the foreign ministers of Iraq, Iran and Turkey in New York, where the three countries announced once again that the IKBY must cancel the referendum at a joint press conference. Turkey has continued its efforts to explain the error of the decision made by the regional administration and the dire consequences, but has thus far failed to find a positive response, with all its goodwill and in the framework of good relations with Iraq and the IKBY. Despite all warnings from our government, our relevant institutions and the international community, the IKBY leadership insists on a referendum. In response, a national Security Council meeting was held yesterday to express the seriousness of the situation, and it was held by prioritizing history, and the referendum decision received by the IKBY was evaluated in the MGK, with all its dimensions being discussed, and all kinds of measures were placed on the table. The National Security Council also gave various recommendations to the Council of Ministers. In the Council of Ministers, which took place just after this meeting last night, recommendations from the MGK have been taken into consideration in all aspects of the situation. In the event of a referendum, Turkey has been assessed with all its dimensions of what measures to take and when these measures will be implemented. At this critical stage, we have a debt and a duty to call on the Iraqi Kurdish Regional Government, where we see as our friends and are truly friends so far in the philosophy of win-win and win-win. Give up this referendum and cancel this referendum. This is not a subject of sentimentality; it must be decided with common sense. If this referendum is cancelled, there will be a greater unrest in the region. It's not too late and there's still time for the parameters of politics. Turkey also opposes delaying the referendum. Because this will mean that this referendum will be allowed in the future. The right thing to do is to cancel the referendum completely. Turkey needs Lausanne and Ankara Accords, 1946 Turkey-Iraq Agreement, 1983 Turkey-Iraq Border Security and Co-operation Agreements will be damaged by this decision. Turkey will not be able to allow it, it will not be possible. At the end of the MGK declaration, the framework, under which the referendum is held, will take whatever measures our country considers necessary within the framework of bilateral agreements and the rights recognised by international law. Mr. President, when it comes to Syrian lawmakers, progress in this country remains a serious threat to regional, international peace, security and stability. The risk and threats of the dispute in Syria, which entered its 7th year, continue to exist in terms of our country, and the protection of our national security in the face of these risks and threats remains a priority. It would be correct to say that Turkey shares the 911-mile-long land border at the beginning of countries where the reflections of developments in Syria are most felt. Terrorist organisations such as PKK/PYD-YPG and DEAS, which have been haunted by the chaos and the lack of authority caused by the regime in Syria, continue to directly threaten our national security. In recent years, terrorist attacks targeting our borders, our elements of Turkish Armed Forces along the border, and especially our people near the border, have become a major threat to our national security, which has triggered the largest migration movement in recent years, which has led to a situation in our country where we are home to close to 3,200,000 Syrian brothers and sisters who are directly targeted at the level of crime and crimes against humanity. Turkey has consistently supported a political solution in Syria, such as in Iraq, to restore peace and stability in the country, to preserve Syria's unity and territorial integrity, and to carry out a stable political transition process based on the legitimate demands of the people. Important work has been done over the last year, which has ensured that this political solution can be discussed, and the results of these quick and important studies have gradually begun to appear. The most important of all is the ceasefire regime, which we had announced throughout the country at the end of 2016. The acceleration of the ceasefire regime's declaration led to the emergence of the platform known as the Astana process last January, and the taking of confidence-building measures among the conflicting parties that Turkey had led, and continuing our work with Russia (Russia) and Iran, has indeed been the result of a much safer environment in these areas. A significant distance has also been made by the record of non-conflict signed in Astana last May, and in this way, an agreement has come to the agenda, including the Idlib province and the region established in the vicinity of Turkey, which is the closest concern to Turkey. At the last meeting on Syria held in Astana, September 14, 2017, the establishment of this region was announced by Russia and Iran, Turkey and two other garantists. Observers from three garantor countries will serve in the field in this region, where we are bordering one section, to separate the regime elements from the opposition groups and monitor the possible ceasefire violations. In this way, our elements of the Turkish Armed Forces will be able to land in the field to serve at observation and control points on the borders of the non-conflict zone. The presence of elements of the Turkish Armed Forces in the field will also ensure that threats that could lead to our country, particularly terrorist attacks and new migration movements, will be assessed and immediately eliminated by a timely measure. It is also intended to restore stability in the Idlib province, to normalise life, and to facilitate the return of Syrian brothers and sisters who had to leave their territory in this region. On the other hand, thanks to the statement we are discussing today, the operation of the Fırat Shield, which our Turkish Armed Forces successfully concluded. As a result of the operation, the terrorist organization has been completely removed from our DEAC borders. The DEAC, which is beginning to decline and lose its power through the operation, is already trapped in the central and southern regions of the river basin. The execution of the new order, which has been established in the Battle of the Fırat Shield, is seen to be necessary for our Turkish Armed Forces elements to continue their duties in this region for a while, in order to prevent terrorist organisations from finding a new presence in this region and to prepare conditions for the return of our Syrian brothers, who have fled from this region and have taken refuge in our country. We need to be prepared to plan any possibility that will allow our national security to be dealt with timely and if necessary, in order to protect our country against any risk or threat from Syria. Thus, it is beneficial to extend the dissertation for a year in order to ensure the safety of our country against all these risks and threats, to ensure the effective protection and protection of our people and strong support of the policies that will be implemented in this framework. In this direction, as representative of the EC PARTY Group speaking on the thesis, I say we will vote and support this thesis. In these historic days, I believe we can once again demonstrate our national unity and solidarity for our country, nation and flag, in our Veteran Parliament today. With this wish, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0041par0462	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0042par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0043par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0044par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0045par0466	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0046par0467	Sir, Volcano Bozır Bey says that he is a bad example of the ministry. I want to give you an answer, he picked on me.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0045par0468	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0046par0472	I respect individuals, any man who requires respect, but my greatest respect and loyalty is to the flag, to the country, to the Ataturk, to the founder of this republic. I don't like cheap heroes. Now, he says, "Immunity." Did I say anything about the State Department here? We never talked. Did we criticize the State Department institutionally? We didn't. So where does he want to send a message? I mean, who does he want to impress? What does he want to do? Are we going to learn diplomacy from him? I haven't learned that in 20 years at that institution I'm in, and now I'm gonna learn that from him?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0047par0475	Talk to me on a level, level.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0046par0476	Besides, I wish the person who wrote that twenty minutes had read it all here. Look, he didn't read for two minutes, and he picked on me, and it wouldn't be a problem if he'd read it all. I'm a man of diplomacy. I've had so many conversations in my life, based on one person, there's been no bullying here because of me, but he's not loyal to the Ministry, what loyalty? Don't we know what loyalty to whom? Is it disloyal to say what's wrong with the ministry and politics? Are we being disloyal? Besides, the Undersecretary of State is here, and I don't know that I'm here to criticize the Undersecretary of State? The Deputy Undersecretary is there, don't I know we'll criticize? Our work is political and kind, and everyone must remain in the political framework. Otherwise, cheap heroics, loyalty, brother, evil... what have we done to set a bad example? Is the Ministry down because of us? So what did we do? What did we do? We've done what's best for this country, for the interests of this country. What did Mr. Volcano Bozır do? What's wrong with him? What does he want to cover up by accusing me of disloyalty to the Ministry? Let me tell you, showing loyalty to one person does not earn him points in the House. I don't know if he's doing this to someone up there. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0049par0480	Mr. President, if you look this way, I have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0481	Mr. Osman, sir, you have your statements.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0049par0482	I have a request.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0483	Reports came in, reports came in. For all 10 MPs present in prison: this attack on the will of the nation, this hostage holding process, this regime of oppression is illegitimate. (Applause from the HDP rows) According to you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0049par0484	Well, as far as we're concerned, we're a separate party, we have separate opinions, if you appreciate them.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0485	The AKP-MHP alliance and its alliance with other evil organizations have also brought this country to the brink of great misfortunes that it has never witnessed in its history in almost three years. For three years, you've had statements like polarization, conflicting, bloodshed, building a government regime, the process of self-domination, the declaration of the enemies of 40 million Kurds. When you read them one by one...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0050par0487	You prepare the speeches from now on, Mr. President. Oh, my God!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0488	... may not be noticed when we're in the middle of a conversation, but when we read it one by one, we see that the language, unfortunately, is not a clean way of speaking, and it's not a non-violent way of speaking. In this regard, I give you a three-minute right, and as I said -- I just told the lady -- the president who runs the House gets the powers he has from the Civil Charter, and he can also cut, even remove, or change, according to the Civil Code. So you, please, I repeat, madam, you are a lawyer, read the Civil Code again. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0051par0490	And for that, I'll also take the promise of teasing. Read the Civil Charter.... Is there a child here?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0052par0491	What the hell is this?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0048par0492	Here you are, Osman Bey.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0053par0495	I thank you for your promise again. Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'm going to make it clear and clear to you that I'm going to make a note of it. Now I have three minutes, two and a half minutes. First, a civilized regime that wants to establish a order in Middle Eastern geography, but only if it establishes an alliance with the Kurdish people and not through the hostility of other peoples. Every system based on the hostility of the Kurdish people, history is a witness thousands of times that it has not been fulfilled, and I hope and I hope that it will no longer succeed. Together, equality, freedom, law of justice can be established, including democracy. Now look, who is El Nuceyfi and where is he now? When Mosul falls, he's the governor who doesn't shoot a single bullet, and what organization does El Nuceyfi run now? Hasdi is the head of the Vatanite forces. Those Patriotic powers, who's training them? This government is training. Look, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda... look, Ahrar-ush Damascus... these are the evil authorities in the field, the evil forces, and some of them are barbaric organizations that have not had their share of humanity. Look, I swear to God and God, those trucks weren't going to the Turks. It was a member of your administration's Deputy Prime Minister at the time. So, this government also formed false alliances with evil forces, evil forces in the field, and those false alliances today made this country what it is. Mr. President, if you want to throw me out of the House, put me in the dungeon, drop my MP, I stand by all that I say. Long live the honorable peace! Long live justice! Long live freedom! (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0054par0504	Don't challenge me like this, Osman Bey. This roof is the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You think you're somewhere else? He's not that tall.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0053par0506	I'm speaking as a member of the National Assembly.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0054par0507	He's not that tall.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0055par0508	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0054par0509	Mr. Naci...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0055par0510	Mr. President, our power has never had an alliance with any evil focus, with any illegitimate power.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0056par0511	Does this place belong to you, Mr. President? Is this Parliament yours alone, only AKP's?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0057par0512	It belongs to the people, to the people!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0056par0513	If it belongs to the people, we'll talk about it. We represent the people here. Are you the only one representing the nation?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0058par0514	Please don't pick on me. Yeah...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0059par0516	All of his policies were carried out within the scope of legitimacy and on the basis of international law.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0060par0517	Isn't it the people who voted for you who voted for us? Shame on you! Know your place!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0059par0518	In fact, these arguments are known to the public in public, and our people know very well who are in league with the evil centers, and we don't have to tell them here.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0520	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0521	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0522	Sir, now...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0523	Mr. President, I've had a request to make a statement regarding your address to me. Please...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0524	Here you go, ma'am.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0525	Now, first, I'm reading your words from the transcripts: open... hungry Civil Charter... you've studied law, open the Civil Code. I'm returning this to you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0526	I'm returning it to you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0527	I take it that's rude.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0528	Refundable, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0531	Not even the AKP's deputy president, as you've led this assembly, was so nervous, so rudely led. Other than that, when you interfered with our minister, you said: "We are a political party, and our preacher is the spokesman for that party. We're on the side, we're on the side. If we were to agree with you, then there would be only one party here, and there wouldn't be another party.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0533	I'm joining him.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0062par0534	I'd like to make that clear to you as well.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0536	I agree with him, you're right. We don't agree. Sir, I'd like a few minutes of your time.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0063par0538	64, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit01spe0061par0539	I'll take five, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (3/1185) We continue the talks of Prime Ministerial Proposal Number 3/1185. The government is here. The talks for the groups were complete. Mr. Engin Altay Bey will now speak on behalf of him. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0011	Mr. President, the Homeland Code 61 is the last word of the MP. When you say it, the last word is actually made in the speech of the opposition, and that's the way it works. I mean, since it's a two-person conversation, if you appreciate it, sir, the first speech is required by the ruling party. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0061par0013	Sir, you know, there's no distinction here whether or not you're going to speak as a member of parliament. Two, if you agree, Mr. Engin, yes.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0015	Deal.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0061par0016	The two MPs are gonna talk anyway. Mr. Mehdi Eker and your witness will speak, I don't know, but you have the right to change the order. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0019	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. We vote yes to these statements so that the martyrs don't come, but today we have two bitter martyrs from Haqari again, in the middle, in the eyes of the government. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and may this be the last time. Although we have given every authority from the Parliament to fight terrorism, I would like to express our regret and regret over the fact that the government's wrong policies have made 80 million terrorist organisations an open target. Now, it's said about the Kaisers, so it's also said about Elitaş, who paints donkeys and sells them to his father. It's this joke, this joke, which is exactly what you've been making in public for three or five days. It's nothing new. That's not what we're talking about. That's not what you're telling the public. This statement to parliament is a statement aimed at boosting the capabilities and capabilities of Turkish Armed Forces for the terrorist organisations Turkey has been exposed to since 2007. For almost a week, sir, wait for the National Security Board, see what happens. See, see what happens. It's trying. He's sitting in public waiting for the MGK results. When we looked at the national security board's decisions, nothing came out of the MGK, where you kept the nation busy for a week. You roar, you make thunder, you get a drop of blessing, you don't have a drop of rain. You don't have a drop of fertility. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's new with those MGK decisions? Advice, wish, status assessment. Why are you putting this issue, the anti-terrorism issue, the Kurdish problem, into domestic politics? Isn't that rude? I'll tell you how you did it now, but before that, Mr. Bozır said, "We've cleared the Storm Shield and the DAESH." The DAEŞ has cells that sleep in 71 provinces in Turkey. There is participation in the 71 provinces, in the threat to Turkey, which you created. Let someone come here and tell me a paragraph about this -- what the government throws, what they do is consistent. That's not right!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0065par0026	Have mercy, have mercy!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0027	Now the lafla cheese boat does not walk. It is said that it does not have diplomacy with a hammock. There's Turkey in the middle, we've got national security, we've got national security, we've got terror threats, we've got domestic and external threats, but if there's none, we've got envy, envy, envy.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0066par0028	We're operating, we're operating.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0029	Now, here's a shame: every occasion you say the national case, the national issue, Elitaş comes out and we meet in Parliament three parties in the fight against terror. I ask the government: Turkey used to have traditions, there was such a thing as giving information to the opposition. In the past, he used to inform the main opposition and other opposition parties on such important issues. Did you need to give me any information? You didn't do anything, and you got Turkey into a swamp. Mr. President, this Barzani doesn't appreciate anything. Good morning! Or weird...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0067par0031	He doesn't know, he doesn't know...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0032	Is the government's work to be carried out with value, or is it to be conducted with diplomacy? How's that for an approach? We were deceived again. He couldn't say this time, but he says he doesn't appreciate it, just as he was once deceived by the PKK, by Assad. Mr. Elitaş says: "This referendum has suddenly come to us. " I mean, I don't understand the lack of experience when such an experienced politician talks.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0068par0034	When did he say that?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0069par0035	There's bullying.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0036	I'm picking on you on purpose. Leave Mesut Barzani... where are you? It's a hundred-year-old dream of Molla Barzani. If you don't know about this, forget politics, go paint donkeys.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0070par0039	No, that didn't happen, that didn't happen.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0040	No, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0070par0041	That didn't happen. So far, so good, it didn't work out.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0042	No, trade, trade. Correction, and I apologize.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0071par0043	No, it's fine, it's more like it, Mr. Engin, it's just you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0044	But I'll tell you one thing: don't cheat on people. You're cheating on people. Here are the national security board decisions. What are you going to do now?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0071par0045	It's not polite. The bench has its manners.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0046	There are various measures, diplomacy, literature, military options. If you ask me, don't even think about the military option, let alone the military option. In a country's parliament, when the slightest threat arises, military option, warmongering is not the right thing to do. Trade, economic sanctions, political sanctions. You roared and roared and said, "This is what we're going to do, this is what we're going to do." I claim from here, at the point of commercial and economic sanctions, are you going to shut down Habur, or are you going to shut down the oil valves? You can't do both.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0072par0047	We'll do it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0048	You can't!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0072par0049	We'll do it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0050	We'll see, you won't be able to do either. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, military options must not be discussed. There's nothing in the middle of it. As the great Ataturk said, war is murder unless necessary. There shouldn't be a killing spree. But of course there are measures to be taken, that's what we're going to say. As a constructive opposition, we'll tell them what to do. Now, dear friends, I'm glad for one thing, I think it's about this referendum that he referred to Prime Minister Lausanne. You know, Lausanne was devastated. I also want to say that I welcome the reference to Lausanne.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0073par0054	Yeah, the island's gone wrong, so that's good.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0055	Now, the Middle East has been a dangerous and unstable geography throughout history. Legally speaking, it may seem like the domestic work of a country outside Turkey, but it should be known that Turkey's intervention will also create major problems in international law. It is not only strategic negativity, but the dissolution and conflict of Iraqi peoples is directly reflected in Turkey, not directly. What Turkey must do is to serve the environment of conflict in Iraq. You are seeking a Kurdish opposition, a Kurdish hostility in Turkey on this occasion, which is wrong.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0073par0056	You'll get hit.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0057	By your government, I mean the lawmakers. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] On this occasion, it is necessary to say that you cannot view every Kurdish person as a terrorist. You can't criminalize all Kurds -- I'm telling the government. They divide Turkey, polarize it, camp it, separate it; there's no need for that. The point is, we say 80 million, we call it a draw. Kurd has as much right as I have in this country. And by that, I mean...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0074par0060	Who claims otherwise? Does anyone claim otherwise?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0075par0061	Oh, come on, that's a shame.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0064par0062	What? Shall we kick the Kurds out of this country?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0076par0064	Sir, please don't make any statements.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0077par0065	No one looks at me like that.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0078par0066	I'm Kurd. I'm here.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0067	We told the government's statement that we would vote yes to this thesis, which includes the fight against terrorism. So we say: let the government and the PKK fight the most effectively, we're after, we're supportive, but all Kurds who live in Turkey or live in Iraq must stay away from business and transactions that will make all Kurds look like terrorists. Do you know where the mistake was made? The error was made here, first we came to this point: one cot, three al. The logic of the late Ozal is the breaking point in Turkey's Middle Eastern policy, the beginning of the chain of wrongs, but the AK PARTI governments have not lost that chain of wrongs, it has increased. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You, the government, and the governments before that, the AK PARTY governments, taking over Central Administration in Iraq in 2009...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0080par0071	Could you please wrap it up?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0072	You'll give it to the government, won't you? Instead of dealing with the Iraqi Central Government from 2009, the EC PARTI governments continued this chain of wrongs in dealing with radical Islamist jihadist organizations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood, and by buying direct oil from the Northern Iraqi Regional Administration, he has now become the sponsor of this government of the referendum you've been complaining about. The sponsor of the referendum you've been complaining about is sitting here. If you're going to ask an account, start here first. Dear friends, with constructive sincerity, with good intentions, I present our proposals, Mr. President of the Nine Articles, and it's very important. One, all of you, stop making the thesis domestic policy material together.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0081par0076	You've been doing it all along.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0077	We need it, we need it for our peace of mind. Two: Turkey cannot be a military option between its sanctions, period. Oh, no, we don't want the war to be discussed, we don't want it to be considered. Three: Turkey has been constantly threatening unrequited for seven or eight years, resetting its sanction and prestige in the region. From now on, we, the main opposition party, are ready to help this government and this Parliament develop policies that are on the ground for the region, and we are ready to contribute to support and support. Four: Turkey has an effective, powerful, peaceful means of persuasion, and it must be used. Five: This government must use all its energy to put Erbil and Baghdad at the table. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If peace is wanted, if peace is wanted in the region, that's what needs to be done. Six: there are countries next door to Iraq. Iran is as involved in Iraq as Turkey. Now, Turkey has the power to allow Iran to keep its language channels open under international solidarity. But he has no intention or zeal for it. The government has to make an effort on this one, too.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0082par0085	Yeah...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0086	Two points to go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0082par0087	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0088	And one more thing the government must be afraid of: change your vision of the Middle East in the long term and in the middle term, and see the Middle East as a whole. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, for the region, you're creating a perception that will transform this referendum for Turkey into Kurdish anti-Kurdish, leave this language, give it up, and I'm telling you bad?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0083par0092	You're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0093	And finally, explain one thing to this Parliament and to this saintly nation: I demand a list of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, including the partners of Barzani, the company that took the oil of Northern Iraq and sold it to Israel.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0084par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0097	Final statement: While supporting the government and the Turkish Armed Forces for every fight against terrorism, I expect the government to act consciously and consciously, with the intention of establishing peace in the region and in the country, and I invite the government to this understanding. I'm saying we'll vote positive for the counter. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0101	Mr. Altay, I am well aware of your law with Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0102	I'll fix it right now.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0103	But, people, those who are watching right now might consider it a little odd.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0104	Turn the mike back on, I'll fix it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0105	Plus, I'm afraid what you said about Kayseri is a fabrication, of course, that sort of thing that hurts people.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0106	How are the proverbs made up, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0107	Your Grace, you're an educator.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0108	I'll fix it right now.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0109	Please give me an opening, take them back, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0110	If you turn on the microphone, sir, I'll take it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0085par0111	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0086par0112	Don't take it back... Don't take it back...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0113	Now, Mr. Elitaş has marketed this thesis, the anti-terrorism thesis, as a statement of intimidation to Barzani, to prevent the referendum. So I said, "There is a proverb; the Kaisers paint the donkey, sell it to his father. I said this.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0087par0114	That's not a saying.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0115	Yeah, you don't. I say I do. Come on, prove you're not. So I said there was, but we gave him a story of painting from the proverb. Mr. Elitaş, this is an insult to...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0088par0117	No insults, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0118	I'm sorry. I mean, it's okay. There's nothing here.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0088par0119	Okay, okay, no insults.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0120	Is there? No.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0089par0121	Sir, I suppose I do, I suppose I do.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0122	Okay, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0089par0123	But let me ask you not to get picked on again.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0079par0124	I mean, Elitas should quit politics and trade. That's what I meant, that's all.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0089par0125	I invited Mr. Altay to fix it, he did extra this time, he did another stitch.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0090par0126	So wrong, so wrong.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0089par0127	Please, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0091par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0089par0129	I will, sir, I will. Mr. Mustafa, come in.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0134	Sir, while I'm listening to Mr. Altay, I'm surprised if this is an Iraqi thesis or an Elitas thesis. Mr. Altay started, and he said, "Elitaş said this. "When we called for an extraordinary meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey," he said, "How can the President of the Assembly call it?," whereas he's been an experienced Deputy President of the Group for years.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0093par0135	The President has the authority to transfer.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0136	According to Article 7 of the Civil Code, if you call the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to an extraordinary meeting, you must inform them of its day and its time, the President has the credit.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0093par0137	Yeah, that's what I said.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0138	That's what I'm talking about. On Saturday (September 23rd), we call an extraordinary meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to meet at 4:00 p.m. on Saturday (September 23rd). That's our demand, that's our demand, that's fulfilled. Look, you know the joke wrong, it's said that painting his mother and selling it to his father, so it's a job to save family order, but there's also a donkey joke.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0094par0141	And you should apologize for that.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0142	Now, someone who knows this joke came to Kayseri, and said, "You're painting and selling the donkey." One of the shoe painters had reached out to the boy, and he put his foot on the counter, and he said, "My son, here you are painting your mother and selling the donkey to your father and selling it like this. For him, you have to know these jokes well. Kayseri is a man of the region that trades with the sweat of his forehead. No one's afraid of Kayseri, he likes to negotiate, but he sleeps well after selling the goods, because it's described as loyal to the word of a Caesarian merchant, like the gold of Reshad. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, valued lawmakers, look, what we're saying here is that the National Security Council has gathered. The statement, which was scheduled to be discussed on October 30th, was held on September 23rd. We're doing our duty to warn the Northern Iraqi Regional Management to make sure that there is no spark for a ring of fire in the Middle East, so that it doesn't put the whole world on the spot. We thank you, and you took part in that warning mission and made a statement, and we will support it. As soon as the National Movement Party heard the thesis, we will support it. However, on October 30th, we will discuss this, and what is the need for September 23rd? Because you agreed with the precision of this warning mission, and you believed it, so we bring it on September 23rd. In the public vote on September 25th, we say to the citizens who will vote in the referendum: "Don't do it, this fire circle will burn you first and lead you to a place that will burn the whole world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've given Mr. Altay five minutes, so if you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0095par0147	Please put him through, please put him through.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0148	And we call Barzani, and we say, "Look out, it's not just about you, it's the beginning of a process that's going to divide and swallow the region completely, and it's going to be like this in Syria and Iraq. We, the government, have been doing shuttle diplomacy for five months, six months. On the one hand, Mr. President warns, on the other hand, the Foreign Minister talks to the ministers, talks to various countries, he has this intention, we try to prevent it. Don't go into something like that, it's dangerous. Mr. Altay says: "If you had done your present behavior five months ago." Look, if you ask our friend the former consul who just spoke, international relations are like this.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0096par0151	What do you mean, ex-consul? He's the congressman, he's the congressman.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0092par0152	Like we do here, let's have the fight in advance, then we'll make up, not the way we do it, but the way we do it in diplomacy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And what we're going to do today will give the Turkish Grand National Assembly the final warning, the final warning, to the Northern Iraqi Regional Administration. Thank you for your contribution.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0157	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0098par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0099par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0160	Mr. Secretary, just a minute...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0100par0161	Mr. President, what's an old consul, what's an old consul? He's a congressman. He's a congressman.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0162	Sir, we're having a community hearing. The world used to be so big, now it's a village, a town, neighborhoods, streets, states. We don't accept words made up by old rivalries, we're one. Mr. Engin, we have unanimously decided that the old words between the cities are not appropriate, that they should not be used, that the appeals are closed, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0101par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0102par0166	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0167	The Minister has a request, one minute...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0102par0168	Well, if you consider it, then...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0169	Sir, did you just...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0170	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0171	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0097par0172	Mr. Secretary has given his reasons, I promise you that. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the Republican People's Party must clarify its opinion of the thesis. I'm obviously confused, and I'm confused that the speakers just came out and we're going to support this thesis. They said, "That's right, but then definitely don't even think about military operations or operations." It's been said a few times ago. What I don't understand is that with this thesis, we're already asking the Turkish Armed Forces to authorize cross-border operations, so that's the essence of the thesis, including military operations.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0104par0178	He may not have read it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0179	Therefore, make it very clear whether you are opposed to the thesis or not. If you say you're giving support, then you have to accept that a military operation can be carried out and that the Turkish Armed Forces can operate across the border in this framework, and you have to support it. Inverse statements are contradictions, that's one.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0104par0180	As usual.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0181	Second: Look, in the past, really in Turkey and in the region, our Kurdish brothers had huge problems, especially in Turkey. Forty years, fifty years, sixty years, seventy years of problems. Their most basic rights, even the rights of being human, were not being used, not being used. As far as we're concerned today, regardless of ethnicity, all have equal rights, including our Kurdish brothers, and are all noble members of the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0105par0182	So, what did we say?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0183	But it wasn't like that before. Yeah, it wasn't before. I mean, he couldn't even sing in his own language. That was 20 years ago, thirty years ago, forty years ago. And especially at that time, if we remember which political parties were running Turkey at that time... it would be very, very clear to us... if it was actually a Kurdish hostility, when it was done and who was given the rights to our brothers.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0106par0184	The trustees... the removal of immunity... the arrests... the closure of Kurdish schools...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0185	Yes, no matter what ethnicity everyone today is able to enjoy their cultural rights in Turkey, there's no shortage, there's no problem at all. Earlier, there was a Kurdish problem in Turkey, not today. It's because of the AK PARTY governments. Yes, it is. It's not just that. Look, Turkey is the guarantor for our Kurdish brothers and sisters in northern Iraq who have lived in peace and quiet so far. Our best brothers there, our citizens, know that. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It has protected and provided all kinds of support. We're not looking at it ethnically at all, we're not looking at it, our faith is blocking it, our spiritual values are preventing it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0107par0187	Please complete, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0106par0188	80-year-old female exhumed, exhumed, 80-year-old female.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0189	We respect it because it's created, we embrace it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0106par0190	The 80-year-old woman was exhumed in Ankara; she was not buried because she was Kurd, Alevi.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0103par0191	Thus, if there is any injustice to our Kurdish brothers or brothers from other ethnic backgrounds, it has been done in the past, and there has been a great deal of persecution, but all of this has been eliminated during the EC PARTI period. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0108par0194	You've even banned national holidays, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0109par0195	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0110par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0111par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0109par0198	Ma'am, yes...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0111par0201	It may be a different virtue if a man does not see the atrocities of his own creation or his own time, but we really just want to remind him of Hatun Tuğluk. You're inviting everyone to a clean language, especially what we've just heard here, it's really amazing. I really wish I hadn't heard the expression "paint his mother and sell it to his father."
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0112par0203	You have bad intentions, you understand otherwise.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0111par0204	I return this on behalf of all women, women are not for sale. In the name of nothing, no matter where you dedicate it, no matter what you say, no matter what you say, no matter what you say, it can't be used. Also, I'd like to point out that a war thesis is actually being voted on. But the most damaged, physically, sexually, psychologically, is the most... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to complete it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0113par0208	Please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0111par0209	Women are the ones who see the damage most, and women are the ones who get violent at home because of these rising anger policies, and women who try to fix them later because of the lives you've destroyed in the streets. But that's not what your signatures say, and on top of that, you can stand up and say this kind of thing and laugh and laugh and laugh. I regret it for all of you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0114par0211	It's hard for the family to understand because they don't know what family is. It's hard for some people to understand that you don't know about family.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0113par0212	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0115par0213	Mr. President, as your witness has pointed out, 80 million of our citizens are monitoring these talks. Mr. Secretary, referring to my speech, it has caused a public doubt by saying that the Republican People's Party's opinion on the thesis was not clear because of my speech. This is a taunt, I demand word.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0113par0214	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0115par0218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, did our government fight the PKK terrorist organization? This conversation you're having here, it's true. On the contrary, I said: "This is the anti-terror organization that has been coming to the House for seven years." It's an argument that allows the government to fight effectively with terrorist organizations, and we say yes. I said, "You're painting the public's eyes by turning this statement into a body demonstration in the referendum of Barzani. " [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is -- I apologize again to Mr. Elitas -- for the Kayseri, to praise the Kaisers, to praise their commercial intelligence, they paint the donkey and sell it to their fathers.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0116par0222	It's not about trade, it's about painting his mother and selling to her father.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0115par0223	Now, I wonder if there's a lot of reason for me to say that. One is that we consider this referendum a cause of war by Mr. Bahçeli's or MHP's spokesman. The same messages came from the government. I say, what's the point of war? I'm saying, what's the need for war when you can fight to keep the Arab there, the Kurd, Turkmen, in peace, in peace? That's what I'm saying. But you insist... the HDP says this is a declaration of war. Now, that's how you say this is a declaration of war... we're going to fight, we're going to fight. You said here.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0117par0224	Don't be afraid, they won't take you to war!
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0118par0225	Then don't, yes.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0115par0226	You can account for that to our MPs, give it to the public, I don't know. I don't see a war. I repeat: Turkey has a problem with terrorism, and the state must fight the PKK as well as the DAEŞ, but Turkey also has a Kurdish problem, and all Kurds must not be terrorized, not be criminalized. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0119par0229	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0120par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0119par0231	Mr. Secretary, what happened?
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0120par0232	Mr. President has made a different comment about my speech. I'd like to express my opinion on how my speech should be evaluated in the 69 framework, Mr. President. Mr. Group Deputy President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0119par0233	This statement at the point of pulling it in a different direction...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0120par0234	It's about the war, Mr. President. It's about the war.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0119par0235	It's about the war... Don't go on like this.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0120par0237	No, short Mr. President, I may not be able to use all three minutes.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0119par0238	Okay, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finish it in a minute, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0120par0242	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, this statement could be held later. At the moment, about 40 days ago, in that sense, there is an opportunity for the use of the powers vested by that thesis, but we have made a decision, particularly by calling the Turkish Parliament for an extraordinary meeting, to see this statement in advance early on, and we have made an application to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. This move -- I'm saying it in a nail -- is directly linked to the referendum in northern Iraq. Here, in my speech, I've just tried to express that this referendum will bring out a very serious security problem for Turkey, and it will also throw the area into a ring of fire. Therefore, this needs to be stopped. Step one, step one, the referendum decision must first be waived, and it is only natural to take consistent steps with the desired outcome, making decisions. So it's like a referendum was held without a referendum or a referendum, and if you take steps, it's not very measured, it's going to result in higher prices being paid. Thus, when assessed in this framework, the step, the decision made, is a very sound decision. Besides, we're not bluffing at all, absolutely, the whole world knows we're not bluffing. Turkey has taken every step, if necessary, for security reasons and, of course, in accordance with international law and bilateral agreements. As of today, everything is on the table, all decisions and actions are on the table, and will be used when necessary. And no one has the slightest doubt about it. We're not kidding about this, we're not bluffing. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0121par0247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Engin, we've been at this Kayseri thing a long time, and we've had some reactions. Kayseri is an ancient city of 5,000 years. Let's not use some phrases. As the lady just said, it causes a variety of revolutions. So, I don't think we agree, and I know you very well because I know your kindness. I'd like every city, including our other cities, please, to see these matters as a mockery of the law.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0122par0249	Mr. President, the Kayseri are all familiar with this statement. He knows it as a word that has been used for years, perhaps centuries, and no Kaiser I know will be offended by it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0123par0250	I've been Mr. Engin, I've been.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0122par0251	You can't, brother, and neither can you. It's Kayseri who's uncomfortable with it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0124par0252	Sir, we've done it, that's how we closed it. Sir, our Home Secretary has a request. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0125par0258	Mr. President, my esteemed friends have just presented an assessment of the funeral of Hatun Tuğluk. I'd like to present a few things to the High Council. Of course, the death of an 80-year-old lady and the events she faced have upset all of us, especially our President, our Prime Minister, all of our friends. While working at the Ministry that evening, HDP MPs called several times in a row, in a very human way, they said they were facing something like this, but I have to say, this is our moment of intervention, and not that minute. As soon as Aysel Tuğluk's mother died -- Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı is here, Mrs. Pervin -- they called us, they said she had to go to her mother's funeral, they asked for permission. We told them it was a very human thing and that we would talk to our Minister of Justice about it right away. The Prime Minister is here. We presented the matter to our Prime Minister, and immediately after the funeral proceedings began. After the funeral began, of course, the funeral, which would be buried at noon or in the afternoon, when the permit process, the procedures, the funeral, unfortunately, coincided with the evening. Meanwhile, the police, the security forces, took precautions there -- I don't know much about Slim, so they went to the village -- I don't know much about it. Of course, by the way, why are there so many police cars in the village, what's going on there? The police chiefs, all the officers, left after the burial at the funeral. But there was a group of 15-20, a group of 5, then 10, then 15, then a group of 20, then a group of 25... unfortunately, there was an incident that none of us would agree and we all criticized, that we shouldn't have done to a mother, and we all stood seriously on it. The friends called me again, and they said: "There are bad things going on here, please intervene." We talked to a few of our friends: Secretary Leader, Osman Baydemir, Pervin Hanım... which means that these events took place in about ten or fifteen minutes. We called the Ankara Governor, the Ankara Police Commissioner immediately, and transferred him to the scene. We said: "Whatever there is here, you will take precautions here immediately. " Then Mr. Sırrıyya called again, and he said: "There will be terrible things here." I said: "I am coming there immediately.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0124par0261	Please put him through, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0125par0262	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0124par0263	You asked for the government's word, I gave you three minutes.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0125par0264	Thank you, sir. And we jumped in the car, and we went there. First we went to the cemetery, where the deceased will be buried. That's what we government do. There's been an incident here, there's no way we can approve of it. In terms of this union, it is right to be buried here. And then we did the turds again. Then we asked where Aysel Tuğluk was. At the station. They said. We got up, he was in the ring car outside the police station, in the prison car, we took him to the police station, and for about 40 minutes, 45 minutes, we expressed our condolences and talked. Don't worry, if you want to bury it here, if you want to take it to the other side, to the other side, to the other side, to the country, where it was our President's order, the plane, whatever you want, whatever you want, if you want to go to your own country, we've done our best here. Then there were some allegations. The allegations were: "They have blasphemed, insulted, or whatever they have done to us here. " I am the Minister of the Interior, and I am responsible and responsible for investigating them. I immediately gave instructions to my friends. I don't know how many people are involved in an investigation like this.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0124par0267	Mr. Secretary, put him through, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0125par0268	I'll put you through, sir. But in a total of 20 or 25 people, 62 people were approached, including information. Oh, and then someone took a picture with us, and that's how it happened, but the state did it, and the law did it, and the government did it. Now, on top of that, something like this happened at Tugluk's funeral, something like this. So, if we haven't lived together in every way together, what kind of way, inch by inch, step by step... you said, "Let him stay in his house for two days." Yes, that didn't happen at the time. Let Aysel Tuğlük stay in his home for two days. ▪ Normally he cannot stay in his home, where he should stay in prison at night. His mother died, and he should stay at home. We have done everything we can here, both humanly and legally. Are there social events? Sure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Provocators, maybe? Maybe. Could it be a thesis? Maybe. Could it be a misunderstanding? Maybe. It is our duty to extract from it which is right. We're doing this today. Please... in connection with this incident, our government, our government has fully fulfilled all the sincerity and all the legal ways that they can. I'll put my sentences into context, Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity you've given us. We've done our best here as a government. Three-and-a-half, four hours, as the Home Secretary of this country, I was at the police station -- waiting in the cartel is one thing -- in order for the matter to be fully resolved. I thank you. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0126par0278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sir, on behalf of the individuals...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0126par0281	Mr. Secret...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0282	He made a statement about the incident. Normally, I don't want to be reminded of the Civil Code, but I have something to add.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0128par0284	If that's not what happened, that's what it's got to do with it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0126par0285	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0287	Dear friends, I barely spoke of this matter. This information was important. Well, first of all, a few things, as long as Mr. President is aware of the Minister, which we really shouldn't put on a deadline. First of all, I'd like to start by correcting the Minister's mistake. There is no right here to Mr. Aysel Tugluk. Mr. Attorney General, this is the legal right of those who have lost their relatives. It is not a blessing to have him in your house, nor should he be offered this way. If it's safe, he can do his condolences. I'd like to talk about a short Turkmen tradition now. There is still a tradition in Toros Turkmen. Weddings are held in the summer, and preparations are started in all Turkishmen cities, but there is no pre-wedding festivities and joy. Logistics are prepared, guests are expected, their place is prepared, and then the musicians come. There's no sign of a wedding again. In the company of parents...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0291	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0292	Sir, I'll be somewhere.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0293	Let's get to the bottom, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0294	I'm coming to the point.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0295	Please, please...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0296	If there's any objections, I can stop here. This is important. I'm not doing politics, I'm trying to make a point.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0297	But the General Assembly will continue its work, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0298	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0299	If you have anything to say, we'd like to thank you for your encyclopedic knowledge of the Minister's statement.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0300	This is not encyclopedia information; this is the mountain of Asia Minor, and carry it.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0301	Anyway...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0302	It's not encyclopedia information, it's life itself.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0303	Let it be the knowledge of life.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0304	But you can't...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0305	But please enter the base.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0306	If you'll take this time, I've said fifty words already. President, some understanding, please.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0129par0307	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0127par0308	Parents join the performers, and from the last wedding to the last wedding in that town to that day, every house that has been buried goes to that house, and they begin to mourn for the body of the body, age, and gender. We'll set up a wedding for you, but we know that you have pain -- let's call it nursing, now it's called empathy, it's not fully met -- we know your pain, we understand your pain, we understand your pain, and we want consent. The door to that funeral home is open, whether he died six months ago or six days ago. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he begs for charity, that wedding will be held in that village. Now, that was the custom of Anatolia. From here, Mr. Secretary, since he may not have been there, he described the matter as an act of exorbitance, not the case. We've been the target of a total lynching, a rage and a hate speech, and it's in the statements of an attack, and it's not gonna take too much of your time, and it's in the statements of the security guards. We reported what was coming, and look, these are not pure intentions, they don't look like this, so take precautions. It's something Mr. Minister jumped over, something that all HDP MPs have been exposed to, and I think it's most important to the Speaker of Parliament that we tell the Ankara Governor, the Ankara Police Commissioner... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... And we haven't been able to reach the Minister for quite some time. That's when things got out of hand. Mr. Secretary, he says he's been seeing me, he knows his day off, I can't convince the Minister that it's a grave thing on the phone. I don't want to give you any more details. Then, when things got out of hand, this happened. It's a matter of respect for the dead, of respect for the living, if we can build a future together, if we can build a future together, if we still have the means and intentions, that is a matter of strength and intent. You can't do it alone, that's all that's left of this land. Now, God forbid, we may not be able to do it, even if it's our intention. That's the way everyone should understand it. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0130par0315	Thank you. Members of parliament, the second speaker on behalf of İstanbul MP Mehmet Mehdi Eker is Bey. Here you go, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0131par0322	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The government has been negotiating for several hours today, and I'm the last speaker in the talks on this thesis. It's been discussed a lot, it's reached the end of a warrant issued to the government of the Republic of Turkey in 2016, and there's a decision to extend it for another year. Of course, we have to say that Turkey must ensure its own safety, as well as the stability of its own safety, as well as the most important factor for the safety of other countries in the region. Therefore, this request of authority by the Republic of Turkey is legitimate and a right to international law. Dear lawmakers, we don't learn history as a story, as a story; we learn yesterday to interpret truth, to understand right, to set the present and the future right. There's been two jihans in the last century, there's no way we can isolate it from today. In one of these wars, they called it World War II, the Second World War. According to the records, 81-82 million people died. The atomic bombs have been dropped. The Second World War was often a war in the West itself, a war in Europe's own civil sovereignty, and this war ended, ended in peace, and ended in an agreement. Behind it, the West actually finished with an integration project, which is called the European Union. The values of the European Union were created, and as an integration project through these values, first, the union evolved into a political union behind its joint market and so on. So this war was completed with an integration project for the West. But my dear brothers, the goal of World War I was to destroy and divide the Middle Eastern geography and Ottoman Empire, where we lived. So the manifestations of that war, the consequences of that war, the complications of that war are not over. That's what we're dealing with today. If we define this correctly, analyze it correctly, and act accordingly, we will be able to solve problems more easily in peace. Dear MPs, many developments in Iraq, which began here in 2003 with the invasion of Iraq; the conflict in Syria, which took place in 2011. There are eight known groups of armed terrorist groups in Syria alone today, eight organisations, and many terrorist organizations in Iraq. They're trying to destabilise the area with their hands, and they're trying to turn the area into a pool of blood. People living in the Middle East live on a very valuable property, but instead of being used to provide prosperity to Middle Easterners, they're being used as fuel to ignite each other's skirts, or they're being filled with a bottle of Molotovcoccyli in the hands of a terrorist organization. We, the AK PARTY government, have been in and out of Turkey's borders since 2003, not through division and disintegration, but through integration and reunification, through increasing co-operation areas, we have implemented projects. We tried to solve our own internal issue through democratisation and civilization in Turkey, and we reached the level of knowledge and wisdom that could treat our own wound. But the terrorist organizations used their hands to sabotage it every time, one of them, the PKK, one of them; they sabotaged it all the time, all the time. We decided to lift visas in Syria, hold high-level economic consultations in Iraq, increase our trade, improve our relations. With these countries, we have always tried to be united with all these countries that live in geography and to resolve problems in peace. But gradually, especially after 2011, unfortunately, it became a tragedy. Today, people from Middle Eastern geography, Syria, Iraq are defecting. The Mediterranean and the Black Sea became the graveyards of the Middle Easterners. My dear brothers, just yesterday, in the Black Sea, the Kurdish from Duhoklu, who fled from Northern Iraq in the Black Sea, drowned yesterday. Look, before the referendum's decision came to life, people started defecting from there, going to other geography. That makes perfect sense, too. We have to be careful with that. Now, our friends have said a lot of things, if you don't mind... of course, some of the opposition parties have made statements about the Kurds, some of whom have said, "You're taking the Kurds in front of you." Some said, "Here's how it's done with Kurdim, who's proud to be a citizen of the Republic of Turkey." My message to you, to Northern Iraq, to Mr. Barzani, to our brothers and sisters there is never facing our brothers who live in this district. We've lived together for 14 centuries, we've built a civilization together for 14 centuries. Of course, there are other people here, Arabs, Turkmen, Süryans, Ezis, all together, we did it together. What we're dealing with today is nothing more than an independent state's decision to start a new war in the Middle East, which is the same religion, the same fate, the same thing, the same thing, the same thing, the same thing, the same thing, the same thing, the same thing. That's the point. Let's know that. International dark centers by the hands of terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0132par0331	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0131par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. We gave our brothers a friendly warning because we saw what happened next. Friendly warning: There is still time, and let us turn back from this, because this decision will do nothing in the Middle East but increase blood and tears for the Kurds, for the Turks, for the Arabs, for the Keldanis, for the Yezidi. Some might prefer bloodshed, politics over bloodshed, but in this geography... Let me explain to you in a verse of the great Diyarbakir poet Sezai Karakoc. ▪ With the daily waters of evolution, The revolution with the pus and the blood, While we await the resurrection, Bengisu bengisu boil and age. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's this resurrection that we're watching, that we're observing, that's the resurrection of this civilization, of our civilization. It's a very important issue for us to solve our problems inside, to deal with our internal issues through democratisation and civilization, to be an element of stability in our region and to ensure our safety. And finally, I want to say, let's not get played. There's still a way, and you can still break this game. By the time you break up this game, you'll have torn the sock that was built on the head of Turkey. We'll see that we're together again in pain and joy. And we will never forget that those who think of integration, bring it to life, for the Middle East, for the Middle East, for the Kurds, for the Turks, for the Arabs, for the sake of continuous division and disintegration, nothing is in their best interest; and I speak to my brothers in the regional administration of Northern Iraq specifically, nothing that they want can be your real demand. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-09-23sit02spe0133par0344	[[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Thank you, Mr. Eker. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I submit the thesis to your votes. The vote will be held in the form of a vote under the 140th article of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are in favor of a countermeasure. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] We wish mercy to our martyrs and long lives to our veterans. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this concludes the talks on the matter at the extraordinary meeting. To discuss issues on the agenda in order, the Constitution and the Interior Charter stipulated that Sunday (October 1st, 2017) it is 14 p.m. on Sunday (October 1st, 2017). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you.
