tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem (Islamic Party) who has asked for the 5 December Turkish women's right to choose and be elected. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please, let's cut the noise in the living room, I've invited the preacher to the stand, so let's keep him company.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a stand outside the agenda of the anniversary of the Turkish nation watching us on the screen, and the heroic Turkish women of this country; the Turkish woman's right to be elected. I salute the Veteran Assembly and pay my respects. On 5 December 1934, the Turkish woman was granted the right to elect and be elected as a member of parliament. In 1926, it was the basis for the extradition of the rights lost to the Turkish woman and the Turkish woman, which was adopted by the Grand National Assembly and freed Turkish women from the chain of Sharia. Now the woman has grown stronger, finds her personality, and is ready to participate in social activities in the presence of the male. In 1931, the Turkish woman first appeared in the medical world, and our first female surgeon began working. The recognition of women's right to choose and be elected was expressed in the 1930s when laws were passed in the Turkish republic to win women's political rights. Women's right to choose and be elected in political life is at the top of important social steps. In particular, the importance of women among the basic principles of the republic is the same expression that women have the right to choose and choose. A number of laws passed since 1930 have been recognised by the amendment of the Constitution and Election Law on 5 December 1934 to the right of women to participate in municipal elections, then to become mayors in villages and to be elected to elders. The women's right to choose and run for mayoral elections was granted by the adoption of the City Law on April 3, 1930. Women first used their political rights in the 1930 municipal elections, which lasted from September to October 20th. With the removal of Law 2329 on October 26, 1933 and the amendment of Article 20 of the Law of the Village Law, the right of women to be elected to the village chiefs and delegations. Gul Esin won the election with nearly 500 votes in the village of Demirdere in Çine, Aydın Province, Turkey. Women in Turkey have fought a great battle to become MPs as of 1923; after 11 years of fighting, women have been given the right to choose and be elected on December 5, 1934. Yes, nine months before the republic's declaration, Ataturk said in February 1923 that the failure of our social society stems from our indifference to our women. Living means activity. Therefore, if one body of a social society does not operate and another organ does not function, the social community is paralyzed. Ataturk has determined her place in society with these words. Ataturk's love and respect for the Turkish woman has been riveted by his observations of the Battle of Salvation. In 1923, he expressed that sensitivity in a speech in Konya. I have worked harder than the woman of any nation in the world, and I have worked as hard as the woman of Asia Minor to lead my nation to salvation and victory. Our women run the lifebloods of our men army. They've always been the mighty, the sacrificing, the divine Anatolian women who plowed the land, planted the field, didn't say rain with their ravens and their young in their arms, didn't say winter, but carried the needs of the front. All of us, therefore, remember these great and great hearts of our women with gratitude, gratitude, and respect, and say, "Let their dwelling be a paradise. " First of all, I'd like to point out that yes, we have the right to choose and choose. And I think, as a member of the National Movement Party, as an honorable Turkish woman, I think we should make more effort in the legislature that I'm doing here, especially for our women, about the rights that need to be held. In this sense, with the ruling party, I think that what needs to be done should be put on the agenda, especially in response to women's expectations. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Your Grace. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Onursel Adıl. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 83rd anniversary of giving women the right to choose and be elected. First of all, I have something to say to women in politics. I honor and thank Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave him the right to say. And I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, unemployment is increasing because women want to work. I salute all women who have differentiated women's equality by saying, "Man and woman's equality against the body; in education, in economics, in every aspect of life, they fight against the mindset that puts the woman back on the line." As the Republican People's Party, in the struggle for equality and justice, I choose life. We stand by women who say, "I am the one who resists rights and freedom." Dear lawmakers, the tireless looting and rant ambition of power now threatens not only history, but the health and right of our citizens, not just nature. In Istanbul, which has become a huge construction site, there is no day in which a person should die under the trucks of the week. These people are leaving us, and their families' lives are going to hell. All over Turkey, in the last 20 months, dozens of people have said goodbye to life. So, what's the result when so many of us are giving their lives? The result is reckless again, and the result is punishment. I don't know if that means anything to you. Idil was a 23-year-old college student, a young brother. He got run over by a truck at Yogurt Man Park. Again, at Yogurt Park. As he walked through the park, he said goodbye to life, leaving his family in pain, because of the negligence of the IBB executives who had taken no precautions. Seventeen months of drafting the indictment was found responsible for 17 months and ultimately for not taking the necessary measures, however, the IBB officials were not allowed to investigate. I'd like to ask you one more time: what could be more valuable than a young girl's life, but you haven't given this permission to investigate? How many more lives are we going to lose with this monstrosity? When are you going to stop? What do you say? When are you going to stop ignoring these neglects? Again, Özge Kandemir, age 22, has hopes for the future, a young fellow college student. A young brother who was taken from us by a waste truck while walking on the sidewalk in fashion. What happened? Before his funeral, the driver, who was found to be fully flawed, was released on probation. We see, as you can see, that if you're a journalist in Turkey, if you're opposed, you can be imprisoned for months, years for ideas, but if you serve the tireless ambition of the government, whether you're an IBB executive, if you're a Hafriat truck driver, you're protected, you're protected, you're protected, you're judged without arrest, you don't even need to be judged. Dear lawmakers, responsible for these murders is the AKP's government that condones the turning of the Urban Transmutation Act into the Rant Act, the power that pursues earthquake gathering sites against contractors. These murders are caused by AKP executives who we saw complaining about vertical construction and shed crocodile tears and confessing treason in Istanbul. The chief architect of this murder is Kadir Topbaş, who is responsible for betraying Istanbul and thinks that all his mistakes, all his crimes, will be left behind by resigning without account to millions of Istanbul residents. All these betrayals will one day be questioned in the face of justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Emine Yavuz Körteş, who asked for a promise on the right to choose and be elected to a Turkish woman on December 5th. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today December 5th, the 83rd anniversary of the right of women to be elected and elected in our country. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says in his 1923 Konya speech: "I have worked harder than any other nation's woman in the world, and I have worked as hard as the Anatolian woman in order to lead my nation to salvation and victory. In particular, our heroic women have taken their memorable place in history as well as behind the front lines in the Battle of Salvation. Today, the fact that our women exist at every level of politics, that they are active in all areas of social, economic, political, society's progress is indispensable. In 1935, the representation rate of 18 women in parliament was 4.6 per cent, and in the years that followed, coups that took almost every ten years -- as in every field -- caused the rate of women's representation to decline by one per cent. The rate of 4.4 per cent in 2002 has risen to 14.7 per cent today. It's not enough, but in the last 15 years, a significant distance has been recorded. It will also allow women to approach the problems and needs of the representative community in parliament with a woman's perspective and to produce different solutions. Since 2002, the EC PARTY has taken reformal steps to enable our women to take active roles in political decision-making mechanisms. In Article 10 of the Constitution, a principle of positive discrimination has been set up in favour of women in the Civil Law and Criminal Law. Our Women's Equality Commission is conducting Project Social Gender Equality in Turkey, along with the United Nations Women's Unit, in order to ensure that our women exist as a quality and quantity in decision-making mechanisms. Again, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy prepares a strategy document and action plan to strengthen women's participation in economic and social life through 2018-2023. Our AK PARTY women's arms have served as a political school in the upbringing of female politicians. Over 4 million members and women of the world's largest NGOs are the strong voices of women in our country. In fact, our women showed the world how powerful they were on the night of July 15th, with their bold stance against the tanks. I'd like to make one particular point. Although women were given the right to choose and be elected in 1934, our headscarved women were granted the right to be elected only 80 years later. Even though Mr. Merve Karakcı is elected by the vote of the nation, it is shameful for democracy to have women among those who strive to be removed from the House with their voices out of our ears, and not to have a chosen woman in the House. Thankfully, all our women have earned the right to be chosen by the understanding of freedom that embraces all parts of society and does not alter it. I want to end with the words of our president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who is the president of the United States, who believes that we will build our future together -- women and men -- who have a root civilization -- I want to end it with the words of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan: ▪ Politics that does not include women, a sense of governance that excludes women, not just for women, but for the whole community. A democracy that women don't shoulder, that they don't take care of, can't succeed. A literature without a woman's touch means that she has been deprived of grace, grace, depth. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Filter. Congressmans, it is the basis of civilization that the right to choose and be elected, the basis of parliamentary democracies, is to ensure that all members of the country have no language, religion, race, gender, or social class distinctions. Our nation has known that it has won this modern quality before in many countries around the world and has been able to distribute it equally to its citizens. Women's right to choose and be elected in Turkey is so flattering that it has been fulfilled before most of the developed countries. That's why our country has been an example to the nations of the world since the day it won the right to choose and choose women, as in every field. Today, in every aspect of life, the most active, efficient, and strengthening of the country's potential, our women, as well as in political life, are increasingly reaching their goal, their goal. Women who have successfully served in all areas in our country today will continue to be the symbol of developing Turkey and the most important guarantee of our future. On behalf of the Presidential Court, I celebrate the 83rd anniversary of the election and election of women of our country, especially you, dear ladies of our Parliament, of the 5 December Turkish women. In this particular sense, they held a series of studies and meetings in Mardin, Adıyaman and Gaziantep, including our Women's Opportunity Equality Commission (KEFEK), President Radiye Sezer Kadırcıoğlu MP. We followed the Adıyaman foot of these meetings. Two days of meetings, which I believe are really very useful, have also been very productive in the sense of social awareness and awareness. In that sense, I also congratulate our members of the KEFEK. Again, on December 3rd, we left behind World Day of the disabled. Not only on December 3rd, but he says that we must act with awareness and awareness of our responsibility, first by removing the obstacles in our own mindset, I lovingly salute all my disabled brothers and sisters with the will and the desire to solve all their problems. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to the 15 lawmakers who have entered the system for a minute on the basis of the Internal Charter 60. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is December 5th, the 83rd anniversary of our women having the right to choose and be elected. In 1934, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk did not only grant women the right to choose and be elected; in education, in working life, in culture and art, in short, he gave light to all women of the age who did not have these rights to play more active roles in all areas of social and social. Therefore, as a woman MP of the Republic of Turkey, I once again express my gratitude and respect to Ata. I express my faith that only with our women we can reach the goal of modern civilization in the presence of power. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0009par0070	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, eighty-three years ago, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic of Turkey, had the right to choose and be elected a Turkish woman. Along with the subsequent revolutions, the hero of the Battle of Salvation, the poor Turkish woman, has come to the height of the heavens, worthy to rise above the shoulders. It is the key to destroying the conditions that lead women to despair, causing them to retreat into their homes, their shells, but only by increasing their voice by giving them more space in every aspect of life and especially in political areas. In view of her second-rate, male dominant policies, and implementation of the power rhetoric must be waived. The woman is the most powerful source of access to the level of civilization. I celebrate the anniversary of the women's hundreds of years of loss and the right to choose and be elected to Turkey's enlightenment, and I am grateful for Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0011par0076	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. The World Human Rights Week, December 5th, and the Day of Women's Rights, and 1934, is the day when our women will be given the right to choose and be elected. We are human beings with the highest respect of the realm of existence. We're all men and women. All our rights are the gift of our Creator, and we are born with those rights. These rights are no one's pride. Our sacred texts and historical documents contain all elements of human, female, male, animal, plant, and environmental rights. In this sense, there is no fight for rights in our history, as in the West. In this sense, our Prophet has promised goodness to every creature in its heart, and he has given good news to the one who saved a dog from death, and he has threatened a cat with hell. Wheresoever thou seest, thou shalt be of those whose heart is broken, and thou shalt be of those who say unto them, Be thy father, and be of those who call me Ben-sen on the Day of Judgment.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0011par0080	Mr. Dilipak...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0013par0082	When Jerusalem was occupied by the Crusaders in 1099, the great commander, Saladdin Ayyub, O Allah, has sworn to save Jerusalem from the holy occupation of the Crusades, and to laugh without putting this beautiful minibar in its place in the Masjid-i Aksa. For thirty-three years, he's never had a smile on his face. Saladdin Ayyubi was a Kurdish commander. If I had lived then, I would have been honored to be in his army. Today, we strongly announce that the idea of carrying the American embassy to Jerusalem is prepared to recognise these holy lands as the capital of Israel. Jerusalem is the red line of Muslims. Our heroic poet, Nuri Pakdil... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no love without Jerusalem and without Istanbul. I see Jerusalem as Istanbul, Istanbul as Jerusalem. "To be a knight of the nation." he called her.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0014par0087	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there will be purchases of guards in the 81 districts and districts of Turkey. However, it has been announced that an interview will be made first and written after the interview. We want justice in the takeovers. First, the interview is held and then the written exam is contrary to the test systems that have been conducted so far. We first expect security investigations, medical reports -- not even an interview -- to be conducted with only written examinations. Thousands of guards will be picked up, only the suspects will appear again. If an interview is being conducted, we want to make sure that the camera footage is taken during the interview, which questions are asked to people, and which questions are answered by all the public. Otherwise, I'm saying that a lot of suspects will be exposed tomorrow in the trials of the district-level sub-primes, and I'm offering my regards.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0014par0091	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is December 5th, the 83rd anniversary of the right to elect our women and to select some of our women. When Hafiz Selman Izbeli, one of the heroes of the Salvation War, was recommended to become a MP, I cannot open my head because I am a minister, and I cannot be a MP because I cannot open my head." He has to say it. Congressmans, it's 1999. Merve Kavakcı was elected a member of parliament as a headscarf from the Virtue Party. The oath of the DSP MPs who represented that day's CHP mentality was prevented and the right to be elected by Merve Karakcı was denied by lawless, violent, rude words and actions of Ecevit (Ecevit). Unfortunately, all of our women's right to be elected MPs was on paper until the AK PARTY power. For the first time, our headscarved women, who made up most of our society, had the right to be elected MP on June 7, 2015, with the power of the AK PARTI. I hereby celebrate the second year of our women's right to be elected MP.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0014par0095	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0017par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. December 5th is the day the woman was given the right to choose and choose. The Republic and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk have pioneered and led important steps in order for women to take their place as equal citizens in society. Our women's courageous efforts in the national struggle have found meaning in their rights. Today, in AKP power, the woman has no name. Women's rights by fighting are under the attack of the AKP's power. Women have serious problems in working life. It's a fact that female laborers, considered cheap laborers, are employed without the concept of overtime. Violence, harassment, discrimination, labour exploitation has peaked in this period. Women's murders reached 419 per cent, while violence increased by 1,400 per cent. The AKP's approach to women has a role in the process. Women should be given gender equality. In the rule of the Republican People's Party, women will be given gender equality. He's celebrating today, thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. Karayel...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. The opposition we have today is even willing to lower the country, under the condition that it reduces power. In 1956, Master Necip Fazil said that at the time when Adnan Menderes was in power and CHP was in opposition. These days we see history repeating itself. Whatever we were talking about yesterday, we've had more or less the same experience today that we've been discussing, discussing. Those who failed to bring Turkey to its knees on December 17th and July 15th to get rid of the EC PARTY are fighting to bring it to its knees by operating on perception with false documents. With Reza under oath of American interests, he and those who seek to operate his country with false documents have entered under the orders of the imperialists and his servants. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0021par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 4th, on the Day of the Miners, miners again fell victim to unsecured, unsupervised, illegal work in Turkey. Three workers were killed yesterday in a coal mine between the village of Balveren and Araköy. My condolences to the workers who have lost their lives, to their families, to their relatives, and to our people. Although someone is trying to justify the work killings of mine workers by saying, "There is death in their veins." It is clear and clear that it was not an accident. In Turkey, there are many businesses, especially miners, who live without rules, unsecured work, cheap labor force, extremely busy hours. Instead of correcting the living conditions of the workers, you can't be fatalistic and get rid of this heavy moral responsibility. Forty-eight days ago, eight miners were killed in a coal mine in Şırnak. I'm asking the authorities, what kind of transaction did you make about the responsible? What kind of security measures have you taken?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0022par0112	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0023par0114	Mr. President, in a speech I gave two weeks ago from the podium, I spoke of the problem of the Posco workers who had been fired from work by 90 Posco workers. Again, on the same bench, Kopeeli MP, AKP MP Zeki Aygün said on Saturday that the problem would be resolved; he had made a promise to inform. Ten days later, the problems of the Posco workers in Kosheli have not been solved, and 90 workers have not been thrown out on 25/2 charges, and they have not been released on grounds of a shameful offense. Now, this is Posco, a giant South Korean company, with Gentle Holdings. This South Korean company tried to do to the workers what it couldn't do in its own country, what it couldn't do to them, in my country, and fired the workers. The reasons for their dismissal are because these workers have used their right to be unionists. We need to get the job security out of here as soon as possible, and it's foreign-land...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0025par0120	Mr. President, in the summer harvest of grain in Adana, air pollution has risen to higher levels today due to more heating fuels as we enter the winter months of burning memory fires. In 2015 and 2016, air pollution, which exceeds 80 micrograms in Adana with the legal limit of particle matter, increased to higher levels in December 2017. The Adanans are negatively affected by environmental pollution. To reduce air pollution in Adana, work must be done to reduce the use of solid waste fuels used for heating and promote natural gas use. The use of natural gas in Adana was limited. Meanwhile, the periodic maintenance of fuel boilers, vehicles, exhaust emissions are required to be routinely done, to reduce air pollution by providing heat isolation and energy savings, to be focused on regaining energy in the industry, to be carried out environmental investments in facilities that are emissions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I ask authorities to show the necessary sensitivity to environmental problems and to air pollution, which makes it especially difficult to breathe during the evening hours, which negatively affects human health.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0024par0123	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0026par0125	Thank you, my dear President. During the weekend in Erzurum, a request came from our seasonal workers, asking me to bring it up in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm fulfilling their request today, but we've had such a lucky day at the group meeting that Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that seasonal workers will be evaluated within the subcontractor's law. As is known, seasonal workers work for five months and twenty-nine days, six months free; four months added. Our president's statement today was a very important statement involving 900,000 employees. This has been spoken of since the '80s, and hopefully, they'll have won this permanent labor staff in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with its opposition, with its legal arrangement. I thank you for that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the other hand, on this very important day, we had Alvarese citizens. It's very important to the dam. Veysel Eroglu Minister, who also showed great interest in the descendants of Alvarlı Efe, also congratulates and respects the World Women's Rights Day while thanking my President.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0027par0129	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, on December 5, 1934, is the 83rd anniversary of the adoption of the law that recognises the right to choose and be elected to Turkish women. I celebrate the 83rd anniversary of our women's right to be elected and elected, a turning point in politics, economic and social life. This law, one of the most important steps to democracy in the history of the Republic, has been implemented in our country before many Western countries, while the position of the Turkish woman in political and social life has been strengthened. The AK PARTY says that it has always given and continues to give support to strengthen the status of women, to ensure the equality of women and men and women's decision-making mechanisms, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0029par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Development Minister said the economy could grow by 10 per cent in the third quarter of Turkey, and the dollar reaching the 4 lira limit will come to the balance for the dry. He explained. Is there a government project in the Turkey painting, which is getting poorer and poorer with every increase in courtship, other than waiting for the dollar to balance?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0027par0138	Finally, Mr. Dedeoğlu, in place of Mr. Google.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0030par0140	Dear MPs, I congratulate you on December 5th Women's Rights Day. There is no name for the work of our Turkish woman, who will not be underestimated by her sacrifice. We decided to change that, contribute to our women's equipment. Today, in every profession, we witness the success of the Turkish woman. In the years we've left behind, we've adopted our women as governments, not just the right to choose, not the right to choose, but from education to agriculture. On the night of July 15th, as in the past, I salute Turkish women who shield their chests against the tank, against the bullet, with respect and love. We will continue to be defenders of women's rights as members of the EC PARTY. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0027par0142	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0031par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. It was founded a hundred and fifty-eight years ago -- and I was proud to be part of it -- in Mecca. I'm celebrating the establishment of our school, which has made an important contribution to Turkish politics, Turkish economic life, business, academic life. But I'd also like to point out that the property has problems with the quality of education, and that it's in a way that is unbecoming in its past. Mr. President, December 3rd is the day of the disabled world. Let's not forget we're all disabled candidates. Just because we live our days in good health doesn't guarantee that we'll spend our futures like this. I'm celebrating December 3rd, the Day of the disabled on a world where mental and physical differences do not create a barrier to life. Today, with this acquaintance, we're offering a parliamentary research proposal -- a group proposal from our deputy president, Erkan Akçay Bey -- in order to determine the measures of disabled citizens that need to be taken, and we expect his support from our Parliament on this matter. Also, December 4th is World Miners Day. I celebrate the Day of the Miners of the World, all of our miners, who brought their bread from thousands of feet under, who sweated and sweated. For those who have lost their lives, I ask the Lord God's mercy, and I offer my condolences to their families again. Of course, I would like to say that our miners need to work in a much safer environment and take measures to ensure that their efforts are justified. In addition, today is December 5th World Women's Rights Day and the 83rd anniversary of the right to elect and be elected as MP for Turkish women. The issue of women's right to choose and be elected in our country was first brought up in 1923, with the formation of the republic. During the period from 1923 to 1934, our women, who were granted civil rights in 1926, were entitled to the municipal elections in 1930...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0032par0152	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0031par0153	...has been elected to the village chief and senior staff in 1933, and has been elected to parliament in 1934. Thus women and men are equal in representation. However, I regret to say that even though eighty-three years have passed and the representation has been evenly balanced, the opportunity has failed, while the Turkish woman is far behind in both her working life and political life. As of 2016, when we look at the proportion of non-responsive populations over 25 years of age, it is 8.5 percent in women at 1.6% in men; both are very high. Again, as of 2016, the level of participation in the labour force is 32.5% in men and 32.5 percent in women. In both groups, the proportions are more than 60 per cent in OECD. Now, there's a study, it's a work of TEPAV. When we look at this study, if we raise women's participation in the labor force to the level of the European Union...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0033par0157	Please let's finish.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0031par0158	...about 17.5 per cent of our national income, so if we look at today's money, there's going to be an increase of about 150 billion dollars, so that's the calculation. So it's important for women to join the labor force, and we must make sure that they do. On the other hand, it is not appropriate for 21st-century Turkey, such as our women being subjected to violence, being raped, being killed. So it's medium that we have to do something beyond celebrating these anniversaryes, and as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have a great responsibility. Again, I celebrate the World Women's Rights Day of all women, especially Turkish women. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0034par0161	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0035par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, last week the Commission's talks on the central management budget of 2018 will begin next week, but these days, where the country's economic budget for the new year is being prepared, the country's economic destination is making it feel very life-altering, in health, in education, in foreign debt, in budget deficits. According to the results of AKP power's November inflation figures at work yesterday, the reality remains that the last 14 years have brought the highest inflation to this country, while the last 40 years have given this country the highest unemployment rates. Mr. President, yesterday was World Miners Day. On the Day of the Minings of the World, Abdurrahman was killed in the furnaces of junc, Omar junc, and İdris Inal Şırnak, while Saim Erdem was killed in the Khrom of Adana Aladağ. In this country, it's not a business accident anymore, it's business killings. Mr. President, the honorable MPs are being tried on Thursday (December 7th) in Ankara 19. An exemplary decision from the High Criminal Court... what is it? Three hundred and ninety-nine days later, the trial of our co-Chair, who will appear before the judge from the case he is under arrest, will be held in a court of 20 people in the prefabric courtroom at Sincan Prison Campus, which we find difficult to understand for what reason. This is the prefabricated judgment of political power, AKP power, justice mentality...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0036par0169	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0035par0170	The justice approach of AKP power is a slum approach, mindset is a prefabricated mentality. Imagine, in the world of 2017 and Turkey, the first hearing will be in which the co-chair of this third largest group of Parliament is being held hostage by a political conspiracy. In Parliament, think of it, a co-captain, still the legislator and co-chair, but as an example for the point of justice in Turkey, Sincan Prison will be held in a court of 20 people at Prefabrik Court Hall. For once, let the justice mentality of political power remain prefabricated, but our co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, our fellow lawmakers and politicians...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0036par0172	Let's finish, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0035par0174	...our friends are the unwavering pillars of the struggle for freedom in this country, the struggle for democracy. The sense of justice of AKP power is prefabricated, a prefabricated approach, but I say that our struggle for democracy is the unshakable pillars of democracy in this country, the struggle of our co-chairs, our group's MPs, our MPs, and all the political prisoners taken hostage. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0036par0177	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioglu, in accordance with today's meaning and significance, I promise you also. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0037par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. From the 19th century on, women have a very serious history of fighting for the right to vote and be elected. In this struggle, male history writers, as they did not see enough, have ignored the history of a struggle in which women fighting for the right to vote can be put into prisons, tortured, and fought until the execution of Olympe de Gouges, in England. Therefore, the right to vote on December 5th is in fact a history of fighting since the Ottoman Empire in Turkey. From 1895 to 1908, women produced the women's newspaper for thirteen years. Making a magazine for thirteen years isn't something that everyone can do today. Nezihe Muhiddin, who founded the Turkish Women's Union in 1924, and his friends cannot be forgotten in the history of this country. These women founded the Women's People's Factory before the Republic's People's Factory. They have produced dozens of magazines, primarily Women's World Magazine, and have established dozens of associations. Now, there is a serious history of fighting, as I mentioned in the back, until February 8, 1935, to the new republic where 17 women first entered parliament. Today, the parliamentary women's parliamentary rate is 14 per cent, and our party is the first since the republic to reach that number.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0038par0186	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0037par0187	Of course, with our voting rate over 36 per cent and our charter for equal representation, we have achieved this with our structure. Unfortunately, today, a significant portion of our deputies, especially our friends who have been demoted is a woman. I know that women have a long history of fighting in this country beyond the right to choose, and I salute that. I salute the struggle of all women, including all of our arrested female paralegals and elected mayors. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0039par0190	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0040par0193	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, today is December 5th. It has been eighty-three years since our women received the right to choose and be elected as the basis of democracy. We are women of France, Italy, Argentina, South Korea, and before many democratic lands of the world. But at the point where we're here today, we see that the democratic countries that he got this right earlier are far behind him. According to the World Economic Forum data, Turkey ranked 130 percent in gender equality between 145 countries. The year is 2017; one tenth of our women can't read or write, and seven others can't do anything. Forty percent of our women who lack education and employment opportunities, who have been condemned to the house, are subjected to male violence and violence is increasing. Murders don't stop, at least 337 women were murdered in the first ten months of the year. Our women live in a country like this. We have to change; men and women are not equal; they are contrary to their futrates. We have to change the mindset, which is the most important career of which is motherhood, which is the woman's laughter, seating, and pregnant street. We must establish rights, law, justice together in politics, Congress, street, house, workplaces, every aspect of life.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0039par0195	Let's wrap it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0040par0197	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow MPs, three miners died yesterday in Şırnak. Not by fate, not by accident, but not by what they call this place; Idris Inal, Omer Tunç, Abdurrahman Tunç, died of negligence and lack of control. Two of the sons of the same house, Omar Tunç, and Abdurrahman Tunç, also lost their brother Ahmet Tunç, eight years ago in the mine caved in Şırnak. These gentlemen here have children playing with millions in offshore islands, while people who are forced to spend every day in the mine to control one end of Turkey, without looking for a license, send their children to work with prayers. I ask this place to express my condolences to the families who have lost their children, their fathers, and their wives, and to God's mercy to our brothers who have lost their lives. We will build together a Turkey where life is beautiful, equal, fair, free, not for a handful of strong people.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0039par0200	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0040par0201	We have our word, we will continue to fight until the end. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0039par0203	Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0041par0206	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is December 5th Women's Rights Day. I congratulate all our women on this day. In the same way, years ago, on December 5, 1934, the Turkish woman received the right to elect and be elected as MP, and from that day to today they had important roles in Turkish politics. And they will come after that. As an EC PARTY, we have constantly encouraged women to take active roles in politics, to become more active, to take more positions within the party, and in this sense, the party is both the primary and youth branch of our organization, but also the women's body has been established, and they are doing politics organised throughout Turkey. I congratulate you again on both the Day of Women's Rights on December 5th and the right to be elected and elected on December 5, 1934, and wish you well.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit01spe0039par0208	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0039par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/12/2017 (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Yours truly. On December 5, 2017, TBMM President was proposed to hold talks on Tuesday (March 5/12/2017) on the opening of a parliamentary study of the issues of disabled citizens in order to determine the measures that should be taken by the MP of the MP and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. To explain the motive of the proposal, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa and Deputy Director of the Group for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0042par0021	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens. I salute your honorable committee. As we all know, December 3rd is the day of the disabled. I want them to know that we remember our disabled brothers not just today, but every moment we breathe and breathe. The recent extensive work on our disabled citizens was conducted in 2002, in 2002. Thus, the number of disabled citizens in our country is based on estimative data, the disability situation, education, health and employment conditions. According to this study, the proportion of the disabled in our country to the general population is 12.29 per cent, while the world average is 7.5 per cent. Therefore, the government must first aim to reduce its disability rate in Turkey, creating policies in this regard. Given 2002 data, it is estimated that we have about 10 million disabled citizens in our country. The disabled experience problems in all areas from education to health, employment to transportation. One of the most important problems of disabled persons is employment. In our country, employment policies for disabled people are largely based on the quota system. According to September 2017 of the State Chief of Staff, the public has an open-ended officer's quota of 13.441. The ministry responsible for the employment of disabled citizens is the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. A disabled officer at the Ministry of Labor and Social Security has a quota of 75, but only 13 disabled officers work, so 62 disabled officers are available. However, the ministry, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, should be the best example in the matter. In rural areas, the number of workers is less than 50, so the disabled living in these areas cannot benefit from the quota system. Employers do not follow this rule because punishments for employers who do not employ disabled workers are not deterrents. Publicly disabled employment must be increased. For this purpose, the position of a disabled public official must be increased from 3 per cent to 5 per cent, while the quota of disabled workers must be increased from 4 per cent to 6 per cent. A minimum wage must be paid to the disabled, with less income than minimum wage, by removing the household income criteria conditioned for a disability pension. One of the most important methods in disabled employment is protected businesses. On February 6, 2014, the 14th article of the Law for the disabled has been issued concerning protected workplaces, but the regulation has not yet been published. Another problem with disabled persons is education and rehabilitation. In our country, the issue of disability and rehabilitation services are part of many institutions and institutions. This leads to various and disorganized legislation, a conflict of duty and authority. The number of schools and teachers providing special education and knitting for disabled persons is extremely inadequate. Social care services and vocational rehabilitation centres for disabled people are extremely inadequate. The weekly rehabilitation period for disabled persons must be extended from two hours to four hours, depending on the condition of the disabled. Unblocked living centers should be popularized where disabled children can be safely left for short-term day and boarding care. An unstoppable Turkey is ready to take full responsibility for an unstoppable society, a nationalist Movement Party for an unblocked future. With such thoughts, we offer my love and respect for our disabled brothers and sisters, praying to the Lord God for a peaceful and happy life, greeting your honored delegation, and expecting their support from our parliamentary friends. My respects.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0043par0033	Thank you very much. The first word on behalf of other political party groups belongs to Diyarbakır MP Gibraltar on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0044par0037	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about the research motion for disabled individuals to find a radical and permanent solution to their problems, and how to sum up such a huge problem in three minutes, and I'll also leave it to your appreciation. Yes, according to the estimated data, there is 12.29 per cent of the disabled population, and the employment rate is 7 per cent of the population of Turkey -- which is a very large number -- but what is the rate of employment in the public when you look at this 7 per cent? There's a 4% employment rate in the public. In fact, not everything is a problem, not a job, but a problem of maintenance, a problem of living spaces, which is the problem of creating spaces based on obstacle situations, and a solution to these problems must be developed very, very quickly. In that sense, I'm in the hope and wish that everyone would be sensitive to the development of a solution and support this motion of research together. Yes, one of our main problems is that there's too much abuse, too much abuse, especially for women who are disabled. I'd like to get into the numbers quickly. There's a 2016 preliminary monitoring report for disabled persons, and I very briefly consist of 141/1 of the 391 disabled victims in general, in terms of physical, sexual violence, abuse cases for disabled persons, 36 percent of the children with 18 and six disability children, 138/2% of whom are adults. In the cases of sexual abuse, the most incidents have been committed against the disabled. A total of 69, 48.9 per cent of the total 141 sexual abuse has been committed against the disabled child, including 43/15/26/16/18. In cases of age detection, the number of disabled children in some cases is more than the number of cases of disabled persons over 19 years of age -- or 52 -- that is. Now, the thing is, the reason I don't give so many statistical figures is that they're under heavy attack, they're under abuse, they have very difficult lives as a life. What needs to be done here is to make their lives easier and to develop serious measures against these abuses and abuses. Physically and mentally disabled, it's no one's choice. We hope and hope that we are not mentally disabled, that there are no problems ahead of us, that we can have the ability to solve these problems, and that is up to our will. Nobody's here, and there's nothing to stop it. People... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last thing... the important thing is to have the ability to find a healthy, truly rational solution to these people. I want everyone here to point their finger at this issue, be sensitive about it, and take responsibility for it, especially because it's the day of the disabled. At first, the EC PARTY government has a management responsibility. In any effort he can make here, we're together, we're supportive, just as long as we can figure out how to solve these problems, figure out what to do, figure out what to do with them, figure out what to do with them, how to solve the problems, let's at least make a mutual decision. If you want to call these disabled friends of ours nothing against our citizens, it's up to you and your conscience. My last sentence, the original sentence: what is a man not to be? Don't be mentally challenged. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0045par0047	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. Congressmans, please, I'm not extending, I'm not going to. If you complete its time, you'll be comfortable, and we'll be comfortable. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, MP Fatma Kaplan will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party. Here you are, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0046par0052	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the MHP Group to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens and to investigate the measures they need to be taken. I salute the General Assembly. As it is known, the last day was December 3rd, the Day of the disabled, a crucial day for understanding disabled people and drawing attention to the problems of our people. The Day of the disabled is not a day of celebration or flowering, but rather a day of awareness and disability, of being prevented, of being prevented, of facing problems. So, first of all, we have to face this problem, and then we have to start trying to solve it. Without this confrontation, we'll never get over the real problems, precious MPs, if it's just a vote anxiety or an effort to be useful to someone. We have around 4 million disabled citizens in Turkey, but when we add our people who have lost their skills due to various injuries and accidents, it reaches almost 10 million people. At 14.3 per cent of disabled persons work, 85.7 per cent don't work. In 2016, the number of newly employed disabled workers dropped from 38,349 (38,349) to 15,031. The public also lacks a quota of about 13,000 disabled officers. Despite this deficit, why can't you be appointed in spite of the need, of course I'd like to ask the government from here, dear friends. With employment problems, the disabled have physical problems. What's all this? They have a hard time living their daily lives because of infrastructure, exponential problems, transportation problems. She's got social problems. For example, they struggle with negative discrimination, social rejection, pity, lack of vision. He's got economic problems. There are so many problems with family support and state support. In fact, they all have practical solutions, but we have to get together for that. To live as citizens of equal rights, opportunities and opportunities with everyone; to be qualified and accessible education system; to remove obstacles to rights, services, access to information; to create cities, streets, housing, tools for everyone; to be active in social life, science, art, politics. Of course, we have problems with the employment of women and the employment of disabled women, and we have to do something about it. Boosting women's employment, putting women's quotas in jobs, opening jobs guaranteed courses, are just some of the solutions for women. As long as we come together, you did it, I did it, you gave it, I gave it to you. We want to discuss these solutions together without saying. Finally, I say we remove the barrier to our brains and join hands for an unblocked world, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0047par0059	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Iconian MP Ahmet Özdemir on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0048par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. I gave a speech here last time on the MHP Group proposal, and I thanked the MPP. He took it as a bribe, some of our friends, but no, I'm not bribing him. I especially want to thank the MPP for this proposal. And I especially want to thank our friends for speaking on behalf of the other two groups. Because, like home, like the flag, I think the issue of disability seems to be one of the main issues that can bring us together beyond ideological obsessions, and again, I've called from this podium about disability, I'm repeating the same call to all groups: your proposals, your proposals, your shortcomings on this subject, please -- I'm currently running the EK PARTI Co-ordination Center, so let's bring them together, let's negotiate, let's bring them to a certain point, let's make improvements. But, of course, there are some things here that need to be assessed. I've got some ideas on the proposal, and I'd like to talk to you about them. There are many problems, yes, when we imagine a world without problems, there's no world without problems, there won't be. Let's solve all the problems of those who are involved. Let's consider these numbers in the simple way that we can demonstrate the ability to overcome them, that we can demonstrate their success. By 2002, 5,777 disabled officers in the public office -- here, I'm making a check on the number, I'm giving you the most current number -- 52,000 officers are working today. In addition, 521,000 disabled people receive home care. Around 153,000 disabled workers are also provided for their work. I also want to make this clear. Of course, it's our party that gave us the group proposal, which was well-defined, but the number is a little bit different, so let's just say that at the point of the closure of this deficit, at the point of increasing disability employment, our prime minister's latest statement is that 5,000 disableds will be employed in 2018. Let me point out one little detail: in the legal arrangement that we've drawn out, we've put 3% quotas for officers, a quota for four percent workers. Now that Congress has a very busy agenda, I think it would be appropriate for this proposal to be thrown back for further consideration. My compliments, my love to all of you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0049par0069	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/12/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 5 December 2017, Deputy President Ahmet Yıldırım of the Mus MP Group (base 6110) proposed that the parliamentary research motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the structural problem in Turkey and the recent growing corruption allegations should be held before other motions and talks should be held in a merger Tuesday (December 5/12/2017). On the proposal, Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group with proposals. Mr. Adıyaman, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0050par0084	Mr. President, before I start speaking, on December 4th, on the Day of the Miners of the World, in the explosion of the Grizu near Şırnak Balveren town of Araköy, the mine workers Abdurrahman Tunç, Ömer Tunç and İdris Inal have been killed; I wish patience to those who have lost their lives, to those who have lost their lives, to those who have lost their lives. Dear lawmakers, I must say in advance that our motion to investigate allegations of corruption will be rejected by the AKP's majority, but the Man Island, Malta Paradise documents and the Zarrab case, not only within Turkey's borders, but also the global extent of AKP's corruption. The AKP has added international trade law crimes to its crimes, giving Turkey the biggest squeeze and crisis of the last 15 years. We face this power that silences all opposition dynamics in the country, ties the judiciary to the public, lies to the community, exposes their crimes to the country as an operation or conspiracy against the country. As they claim, there is no conspiracy against Turkey; we face an understanding, an AKP government, trying to cover up thefts, unlawfulness, corruption, and crimes they committed. No flag, no nationalist and religious rhetoric can no longer cover the crimes of AKP's power, which pumps nationalism and religious sensibilities into the masses in order to maintain its power over lying and distortion. Those waving Korans in the rally areas sign a signature on the crimes of lies, fraud, corruption, fraud and theft, the biggest of the verbs banned in the Quran. They steal people's property and make poor people pay for it again. Our numerous proposals for theft and corruption research have been rejected by the AKP's majority, preventing it from being investigated through parliamentary commissions. Reza Zarrab was detained on December 17, 2013 as part of corruption operations, then released. At that time, the media declared Zarrab a hero. AKP President Erdogan said he was a philanthropist businessman. Four ministers resigned, but they were cleared by the AKP's majority in parliament's commission, when they should have been tried in the Supreme Court. If these corrupts were being tried in the country along with the ministers, our country would not be so humiliated now -- in the international arena -- in the nail. Malta, the Man Island documents are in the middle, covered up as if nothing had happened. If you don't judge, and if you justify it, then others will judge, and when others judge, you call it fucking kumpas. It's the AKP's biggest conspiracy to build this country. Iran did its job, judged Zencani, paid off his debts, but the AKP chose to conceal the process, and it ended up illegally laundering it by using the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. More serious, yesterday's benefactor, yesterday's hero, Zarrab, was declared a traitor today. He has been accused of being an agent of the SAVAMA, revealing secret secrets of the state, and is being investigated by the republic's prosecutor's office. I have to ask, how did this merchant and corrupt citizen of Iran and Turkey get access to the secret secrets of the state? What government officer and what authority did he provide these secrets with? The AKP must stop deceiving public opinion with perception operations and first account for it. As the Security and Intelligence Commission that I'm a member of, how does Reza Zarrab get access to the secret secrets of the state when we members can't? Who gave you this information? Who was he friends with, who was he dealing with? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm telling you, whoever was honored by them, they were delivered to Zarrab. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0051par0094	Thank you. İstanbul MP Eren Erdem will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Eren Erdem. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0052par0099	Mr. President, good lawmakers, corruption is a very well-spoken issue in Turkey. But then there's the ignoring, the smuggling of property from the fire, guys. Now, since it's not possible to talk too long in three minutes, I'll get to the point very quickly. Now you're going to say: you're shaking paper, you're doing this. Now, of course, from what I understand, we're going to have to go from writing to writing to writing to writing to writing to stone, so paper, paper, paper, paper, maybe paper. This is a document prepared by the National Intelligence Agency -- our president today shared it with the public -- given to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of the period, who wrote a memo on it. Who wrote this? Who wrote this? National Intelligence Agency. What does it say? It says: "A person named Reza Zarrab performs activities at the point of drilling into the U.S. embargo of Iran, and our government ministers have a relationship with this person. If this relationship is revealed, relations with Turkey and the United States will be damaged. It will be a business against the government. Now, here's the paper, fellas, here's the paper. It's a three-page memo. It's the National Intelligence Agency. In 2004, the National Intelligence Agency submitted a report that a parallel structure was formed in Turkey. You ignored him that day, too. On the 15th of July, people paid the price as martyrs, this country suffered damage. Now you've ignored this report. A charlatan, who is now in the U.S. courts arguing about Turkey, unfortunately, is making this country pay. Will not one person come out and say, "Friend, we've made a mistake, we've made a mistake, we've made a mistake?" After so many mistakes, so many wrongs, won't one person step up and give you self-criticism, dear friends? What needs to be done is a self-criticism. Why was this person released? Now, you're saying, sir, that person went there, the main opposition party is like this, so... very clearly: those who are responsible for that person going there are responsible. That person was to be tried here, to answer for it. Sir, you would have taken the file from the judge. You would have given it to the person who wasn't. Why'd you guys turn it off? Now that spy says: I went out bribing. If it's true, it's a shame, it's a sin, and if it's wrong, it's the ruling party group that needs to give self-criticism, I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0053par0108	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0054par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0053par0110	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0054par0111	Mr. President has taunted our group by linking it to a case that is walking in America, saying that our group is responsible for it, that our group is responsible for it at this point.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0055par0112	But it's got nothing to do with it. What does the AKP have to do with Reza Sarraf?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0056par0113	They have nothing to do with it, Mr. President. They have nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0055par0114	They don't know him, he was just the wife prime minister, he was paying half the ministers' wages.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0057par0115	Come on Mr. Mush, I'll give you two minutes without picking on me. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0119	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0059par0120	HDP brought in co-chair at the party, which brought in co-Chairship in the government. Riza Sarraf is the senior prime minister, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0122	There's been a claim here since last week's group meeting. At the group meeting, sir, money was sent to an offshore account abroad at this time. It continues: "The amount of money was sent to this account. They claimed that money had been sent to a company that had been established abroad, correct? Such a claim has been made. Then we said, well, put your claim on it, bring it up, explain it to me. He's been held for three days, three days, and they don't show it to anyone here. Now, I'm going to ask you again, in those dates, the amount you claim, the amount of money that goes to the places you claim. They still haven't brought it in yet. They don't know what it is they've made copies of and released to the press, look, they don't know what it is. I'm asking you, bring it in. We're talking to the document. They're calling it. Get those documents, get them.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0060par0125	Let's ask the public bank.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0126	Let's see if you can get the numbers, the numbers you claim, the numbers that are going through those dates. He's holding it in his hand...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0061par0127	These, these, Mr. President, look, here, look at this.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0060par0128	The publicbank government bank, the state is in your hands.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0129	He was swinging from the band back then. He shook it, shook it, but it's gone...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0062par0130	Mr. Mush, are you in court?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0131	Look, the paperwork, as they claim, doesn't show a number that's gone, a money that's gone.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0063par0132	I thought you said you weren't going to talk about the papers. What happened?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0133	Look, if you asked an intern in banking, she'd tell you there's something going on. It wasn't even done, it was thrown out. Now, I wonder how we're going to get this done before 17-25, what's been said, bring up the same issues again...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0064par0134	And ye bring up 1925, and bring up 1929.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0058par0135	...you can't go after a case in the U.S. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You don't get power from here either. You'll bring those papers here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0064par0139	You're bringing up the one-party period.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0065par0140	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0066par0141	If there's no papers, what's he gonna bring?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0067par0142	Then they're lying, lying, lying.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0066par0143	When they're right!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0068par0144	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0069par0145	Mr. President, there's already been a document sent to the press, to the public, to the political parties, to the state's attorney's office, as if there wasn't really such a document, as if we were sharing lies and false information with the public...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0070par0146	It's the mufter who doesn't prove it!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0071par0147	That's right, that's a lie!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0069par0148	...has created a perception to taunt our group.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0072par0149	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0073par0150	Let him show you, where did he go? They don't know how to read papers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0074par0151	They don't know how to read papers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0075par0152	Your Grace will speak.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0076par0153	Your Grace, I promise not to tease you for two minutes. Please, let's not make a big deal out of this, let's not put up with another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0156	Mr. President, Mr. Mush says that before December 17th-25th... you go all the way to 1929... when it suits you, when you're stuck, you can go all the way to 1919.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0078par0157	Either you or you go, you're using the arguments Fuat Avni.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0079par0158	You're stuck with the U.S. case, so bring me those papers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0159	Look, now, Mr. Mush, if you want to discuss the contents of the documents placed in front of you, if you want to discuss the contents of those documents you call "photocopy," what are they?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0080par0160	We can read and write, you tell that to the president who can't read or write.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0079par0161	It's the bastard who doesn't prove it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0162	We'll sit in Parliament and discuss the research commission together.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0080par0163	We can read and write, we understand what they are. We can see what it says there. You go tell that to the president.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0164	There's no need to draw the line now. Look, you're saying that some nonsense before December 17th-25th... Mr. Mush, you have the authority to dismiss the head of the National Intelligence Agency. We're talking about the MIT report here, the MIT report. If it's bullshit, if it's bullshit, if you haven't been told that, if this document is a fake, then fire the head of MIT.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0080par0166	Why do you have the MIT report? Where did you get those documents? Where did you get them? You got it from the guys.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0167	Yeah, what you did to make him a congressman, what you fought for. A man you love so much, you count so much. Bring it, brother, and bring it; remove it, if it is false.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0080par0168	You got the document from the people. What's the matter, what's the document? Who gave it to you from the inside?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0169	Come on in, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0081par0170	Let's not interfere, fellas.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0171	Here, I'll give it to you. Look.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0082par0172	You're shaking the document that you got from the guys. You're used to it!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0173	It's everywhere, it's everywhere, it's on the Internet, it's everywhere, it's everywhere. You're not gonna ask me that. You're not gonna ask me that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0082par0174	Tell it to Fuat Avni. Tell it to Fuat Avni.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0083par0175	I'm telling you, bring me the money.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0176	You keep saying, "Who gave it to you, what gave it to you?"
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0082par0177	Once there's information, once there's knowledge, once there's knowledge!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0178	Did the MIT tell you that Reza Zarrab would do these things today, eight months before December 17th and 25th? He did. What did you do? You've seen it. You've seen it in the past, and you're watching it today. Who pays the bill? This public pays. Who's paying? The undying orphan pays for the feather.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0082par0179	You like it, too.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0077par0180	You're still talking. If these are false, go and relieve my brother Hakan Fidan. Ask his account and inform the public. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0084par0183	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0085par0184	They don't give it to us, they bring it to you. You have to ask the people.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0086par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0084par0186	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0086par0187	Mr. President, look, I'm telling you straight. Look, in the following dates, at group meetings on November 21st, did you know that they sent millions of dollars to a company in tax gardens? At the next group meeting, he named it after him. He said on 15/12/2011 -- he names, gives -- he sends money. Now, look, they have to prove what they say, what they say at these group meetings. We said it was an obvious lie. I say bring the documents, we'll open them if you still give them to me...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0087par0189	Brother-in-law, tell me how he started those companies.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0086par0190	Look, the valuable lawmakers, in the documents they hand out... they know very well themselves, and there's an economist in this group, there's a banker, there's a senior in the Treasury, they'd know what's going on in those papers if they showed them. There's not a penny left, but that's how it was claimed at the group meeting. He even describes SWIFT: Do you know what SWIFT is? We asked the banks, and you send them this message when you're sending dollars abroad. Friends, SWIFT is also used at home when there are exchanges of dollars or other foreign currency between two different banks. It's not just something that was sent abroad. Let them prove it. What doesn't prove is a mufter, a liar.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0088par0194	Mr. Ozkoch, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0195	He's accused of mufterism and perjury, sir. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0088par0196	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0199	Mr. President, we're informing the public that the esteemed lawmakers are following up on the Prime Minister of the government and the sons of the President of this government and their own statements.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0090par0200	Get the papers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0201	We brought up the Prime Minister's children, whether they were related to offshore companies, we asked them, we published their documents. People with a little conscience in this group followed us with red faces. The Prime Minister of this country came out, and he said: "Let the subject be brought, let us investigate, I will stand behind it to the end." We brought it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they rejected it by order of the group, and the motion to investigate the documents of the children of the Prime Minister who missed taxes in the offshore countries was rejected in this group. Now, the President's children, the President's son-in-law, the President's chief of staff, the President's in-law Man Island...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0091par0202	You're still talking about the special pen manager.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0203	You talk here, they'll move the stuff. They're building two companies in a room about this big.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0091par0204	Were you there? Were you together?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0205	One of the two companies they built is the Bellway company and one is the BUMERZ company. If you go from the initials of the BUMERZ company to the end, you go to the President's family, his son to his brother-in-law. His brother-in-law's a teacher, a biker. His son, who had been studying on scholarships, transferred millions of dollars from a one-pound company to the Bellway account at the People's Bank.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0092par0206	Wait a minute, wait a minute, he's just arrived.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0207	Don't you ever blush? This nation's children moan, your son-in-law, your brother-in-law, your in-laws play with millions, and you can't pay for it. Don't you ever blush?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0093par0209	Ask your own president, how did you get your own grandson to...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0089par0210	Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0093par0211	Ask your own president.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0212	Mr. President, the orator has obviously teased our group, so I'd like to make a promise of bullying.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0095par0213	Wait... what did he say?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0214	If you had a little blush, you would have taken a step towards it. What does that mean?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0095par0215	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0096par0217	Confess, confessor.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0219	Mr. President, look, he's here now.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0097par0220	May God help Mehmet Mush.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0221	May God help you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0097par0222	May God help you more! How are you gonna tell me all this? I swear to God, how are you gonna handle all this weight?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0223	By God, I know you're upset about what situation you've given the HDP; you can't stop it; give them an answer first.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0097par0224	There's Offshore, there's Man, there's Malta, there's Zarrab, there's brother-in-law, there's brother-in-law, there's the prime minister.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0098par0225	Let's not interfere, please, lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0226	Now, the valued lawmakers, what they were saying, on 15/12/2011, went to this much money. Look, he still can't make it. Now he says: "He didn't go, he came."
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0099par0227	Tell me how the retired teacher Ziya Ilgen started that company! How did the retired teacher get a million-dollar company?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0228	So let's just say we're not taking into account any allegations that a party that changes its mind this quickly in two minutes is going to come up.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0099par0229	Why are you defending him? Is it the party's company or the company's?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0230	That's it, look, we're incapable of even reading a SWIFT document, and the claims that someone who doesn't know what they're reading will come up with, the valued lawmakers, for us, are doomed.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0231	Aye, aye! Where's Man, Man? He must know Mehmet Mush Man! Man, Malta...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0232	The papers they're going to shake are now destroyed because they're a party that can't prove what they've shown or claimed.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0233	Reza Zarrab was a lie too, Reza Zarrab was a lie! You raised your hand, you cleared Reza Zarrab.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0234	So they're liars, slanderers. I'm still saying, bring in the SWIFT messages of the dates. They can't.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0235	You've cleared four ministers, and now you're playing with Turkey's reputation in America.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0236	Now, what happened? Now he says: "This is all the money that came. "
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0237	You've destroyed Turkey! Look at what you've done to the whole country! Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0238	So there's nothing that a major opposition with such contradictions, such inconsistencies and insecurities within itself can tell us as power.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0239	You have cleansed Reza Zarrab, and cleared the clocks, trusting most of you here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0240	From now on, what they bring up and what they say or say will not be considered on our agenda, and for us, they will not.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0100par0241	The money goes to Camiya. You said it, it's a lie.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0101par0242	Where is Solomon Aslan, Süleyman Aslan?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0243	From now on, the General Assembly and our nation...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0101par0244	Where is this Süleyman Aslan, the bank's CEO? He's gone missing with the ministers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0094par0245	... It means we don't engage with allegations, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0102par0247	Why? I think you should keep him busy.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit02spe0103par0248	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0103par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last speaker of the People's Democratic Party's proposal is Bursa MP Zechariah Birkan. Here you go, Mr. Birkan.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0008	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. I salute our High Council and our entire nation. Members of parliament, the EC PARTY took over a country that was passing through a dark tunnel when it came to power in 2002. Over 100 per cent of inflation, over 100 per cent of interest, thousands per cent of overnight interest, civil servants and pensions are not paid, our people are kept in queues.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0105par0010	What month wasn't paid, what month wasn't his pension paid?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0011	...we've taken over a country where wages can only be paid for by relief for earthquake victims, and all the taxes and revenues collected are not enough for principal money, but even interest.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0106par0012	What did you do with the earthquake money?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0013	In 2002, nothing will ever be the same, saying, "We set out in trust with Hakk, and with the people, and worked hard.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0107par0014	It didn't happen.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0108par0015	No, that's right. There was a bit of democracy, and you destroyed it. Nothing ever happens the way it used to.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0016	In the economy, we reduced interest to less than 10 percent, reduced inflation to single digits.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0109par0017	And now? Where is it?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0018	We paid the IMF the debt the people before us took.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0110par0019	IMF said there was no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0020	By expanding the economy, we raised it three times by raising it from $200 billion to $800 billion. We built roads, hospitals.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0111par0021	You've been corrupt.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0022	We've reduced absolute poverty to zero.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0111par0023	You've been corrupt.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0024	In politics, we looked at what people said, not one by one, by dissolving the custody centers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0112par0025	You've formed a new custody regime, a new custody regime.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0026	So, when we do that, we're going to build on this country, outside altars and domestic collaborators...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0113par0027	Co-chairs, co-chairs, co-chairs...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0028	...the week when the debt was paid to the IMF, with the best economic indicators in the history of the Republic, they attempted to destroy our government with street events. They attacked on December 17th and 25th with a coup d'état.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0113par0029	Co-chairs...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0030	Not enough, they attacked our people with tanks, cannons, with their imperialists and domestic collaborators, but they failed again.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0113par0031	Co-chairs...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0032	Dear lawmakers, we are exposed to these slanders and attacks because we do these services. We're dealing with this because we've raised Turkey threefold. Now they're chasing other plays and scenarios. I'll tell you again, you failed, you won't succeed. We're trying to...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0113par0034	I don't want to...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0104par0035	...we will continue to serve this country, to raise this country. I repeat that we are against the HDP group proposal, and I demand your refusal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0114par0039	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/12/2017 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. It has been suggested that the meeting of the General Assembly agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly (10/1121) is held during the General Assembly's 5/12/2017 Tuesday (today) meeting of the General Assembly (today) in order to determine measures that should be taken by investigating the problems in women's employment. The first statement on the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0115par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Assembly Group. We demand that the number of women entrepreneurs, women's employment in Turkey be opened in order to increase their employment, by studying the policies of the countries and cities in Turkey, and by studying the policies of the companies. The women's population in Turkey is 39 million 771, 221, the women's working age is 29.6 million, and the women's number is 8.3 million. 2.4 million of the women who seem to be working are free family workers and all of them are in the countryside. At the same time, the number of women working in Turkey is around 5 million paid, paid, paid, employed or employed in their own account. Women's employment turnout is 28.4%. Unfortunately, women's employment is at the lowest in the European Union and OECD countries. The accession of women to an equal number of economies with men will lead to a higher rate of GDP per capita than today. Projects to increase the number of working women in business will be more realistic, considering that there are around 75% of men working in Turkey. With women entrepreneurs, Turkey is also in bad shape, 9% According to OECD research, Turkey is at the top inequality of women and men's wages. The Law on Increased Women's Employment and Equality of Opportunities included the regulation to provide equal wages for equal work and to monitor whether the provisions on gender equality were applied. On November 14th, the agenda for update of the Plan and Budget Commission was released with an equal fee for equal work, and the obligation to supervise whether or not the provisions for gender equality were implemented. According to statistics in Turkey, 45.6% of women are under a thousand liras per month, while the rate among men is 31 per cent. So what is the reason for the removal of the equal wage arrangement for equal work in the generality? The barrier to increasing women's employment -- the lack of adequate steps to child and elderly care, the control of day care and day care obligations, the statistics on the obstacles to women's employment, research, auditing -- has now been cleared of the content in this final form of this generalization. It is not possible to increase the employment of women, one of the most important arguments to achieve the equality of opportunity and opportunity. Unfortunately, in Turkey, women have been left behind in social, social, and political life. One of the most important indicators in today's world is the value of women's rights and gender equality and the steps taken in this direction. The fact that women have equal social, economic and political rights with men will not only improve social life, but will also ensure the construction of Turkey in light, peace. We ask for parliamentary research to determine issues in women's employment, remove barriers to women's employment, discuss measures that need to be taken, and identify policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0116par0062	Thank you, Mr. Turkmen. On the proposal, Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0117par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the CHP group proposal. Before I begin my speech, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Dear MPs, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says: "I have worked harder than any other nation's woman in the world. I have worked as hard as the Anatolian woman in order to lead my nation to salvation and victory." When we return to history, we see the glorious triumphs of Turkish women on every page of history. I want to talk about a Turkish woman who lived in the 6th century B.C.E., Tomris Hatun, aka Tomris Khan, or Tomris Khagan. Tomris Hatun, also known in the 6th century as the Schits, was also the queen of the people, the woman, the inn, and the khan, who was also known as Beardar, who was also called the jewelers of the steppe. After his wife's death, he took over the government and won victory by fighting the ruthless, bloody ruler of the reign of Ahamenish in Persia. The Turkish woman had equal rights and status with the man in history, and eventually lost her rights to social life and production, unfortunately. However, the Turkish woman's presence and power did not fit in the roles that had been cut out for her, and in the Istliklal War, she carved her name gloriously in history, in gold letters. All over Anatolia, for example, Halide Corporal, Nezahat Corporal from İstanbul, Sheriffe Bacı from Kastamonoh, Nene Hatun from Erzurum, Halime Sergeant from Kara Fatma, Kastamonu, Gördesli Makbule from Akhisar, Gağ Emir Ayşe from Aydın, Tayyar Rahmiye from Adana, and his man from İstklal Vaş. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's greatest goal was to restore the rights and status he deserved for the Turkish woman. As our president-in-chief today stated, he is the architect of the Turkish woman's home and her home, crowned with grace, intelligence and adornment. But we are looking at today, do women of this precious role, architect of society, get everything they deserve? He has problems with many things, especially employment, and he can find half as many jobs as men. Again, violence against women. Women don't have enough representation in political life. But educated and powerful women make new generations by transforming society into strong, self-esteem. Today is Engineer's Day, and I'm celebrating the day of all our engineers, especially our female engineers. I salute you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0118par0071	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0119par0075	Mr. President, we support the motion to investigate women's employment. Yes, there are major problems with this, and indeed, discrimination, sexism, and anti-employment continue at the top of the line in both social life and employment. My other CHP deputy mentioned a lot of numbers, and it's in the motion, so I don't intend to fill your head with numbers, and I'm afraid that's not an option in three minutes. But I'd like to share a number: Turkey is the last of the OECD countries, as well as the last of the OECD countries in the world. In the working age, 20 million women are currently unemployed. 2.4 million of the women who seem to work are free family workers, and a significant part of them are in the countryside. Dear lawmakers, policies for women stand before us not only in the field of employment, but in fact in every aspect of life as anti-women, women's labor, political approach, her presence as an hostility and an exclusionist approach. Today, the only female co-Chair of this Parliament, Figen Yüksekdağ, is still in prison. Again, four of our friends, the five lawmakers who have been demoted, are women. This list could go too far. In all aspects of life, women are actually banned from both work and politics and economic independence. Now, what is it? Friends who work in the women's field know very well that the reason why the exploitation of women is so cathartic is because women lack economic independence; women depend on their wives, fathers, brothers, and family, above all else. She doesn't have her own budget, she doesn't work, she's addicted to men. The government's policies on this also strongly support it. Even the statement of AKP President Erdogan speaks of many things: give your hand to dig, work the shovel; no such thing. We don't want to be delicate, we don't want to be flowers and roses. And we, the citizens who are half this country, want to work in business as we deserve to work in the field of employment. Right now, women's working rate is half of men's. 70% of men's employment is below 30 per cent of women, and this is at the top of reasons for discrimination against women, violence, anger, and really forced women to stay in the house. Therefore, I say it is imperative that the House accept the motion to investigate this matter and seek a solution to this problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0120par0081	Thank you. The final speaker on the proposal will be Düzce MP Ayşe Kşar on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0121par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the advice of the People's Republican Party (CHP). Yes, OECD data has been released, and I'm going to read a few passages from that data to you now: Turkey, which has increased its employment rate since 2005, and has increased the OECD average to five. It's in the same report you mentioned. Since 2005, the increase in employment in Turkey has been 6.2 per cent, while OECD countries in the same period are unfortunately 1.2 per cent. Not seeing the growth means not reading the numbers. I'm going to read you another data again: Turkey -- again I share from the same data -- unemployment has been 2.2% in the long term as of 2016, and today the unemployment rate has dropped to half of 2005. I read the motion very carefully on the grounds that there, in the second paragraph -- I'm going to ask you to look if it's in front of you -- the data from 2013 to 2014 has been met. In 2013, 45.2 per cent said 46 per cent in 2014, in fact, it was mentioned that 45.9 per cent had gone up to 45.9%, but the same number has a current rate of 41.5 per cent, and you couldn't reach the 15-29-year-old number of women who didn't read or work in 2016, or did you fail to write down this improvement in the 2016 figures? I'd like to express my curiosity. When we talk about women's employment and the right to elect women on December 5th today, we should actually talk about women's access to education, because poverty is certainly very directly proportionate to the woman's access to education when we talk about employment data. In 2002, women's universityization rate in Turkey is unfortunately 13 per cent, with universities opened today, universities opened in 81 districts, and especially women with headscarved access to education, which forces 50 per cent. Turkey is not the old Turkey. There is a world leader in Turkey who says the world is greater than the world. His numbers are missing and his misreading is his old complex political reflex, and Turkey's politics deserves a newer one. Fast, I'm going to read you a few more digits: women's employment in EU countries has, unfortunately, increased by 4.8 per cent in recent years, while Turkey has tripled that number. In Germany, 1 million women are employed in the new era, and Turkey has more than 3 million people, 55.2%. Sadly, in England only 1 million women have been able to participate in employment recently. In Turkey, the woman's labour force has increased by 63.3% with 3 million 733,000 people. I think it's a tradition that you have not been able to read the numbers correctly, but I salute your grand delegation by reminding you that there are those who read the numbers correctly in Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0122par0094	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 5/12/2017 meeting on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President The Law Proposal No. 506 was published in the first place in the first place of the Law Proposals and Proposals of the Age, and the other jobs from the Commissions, again in 379, 382, 382, 384, 384, 349, 344, 140, 284, 104, 105, 110, 111, 114, 122, 147, 150 and 481 in the order of this section; again in the order of 6, 7, 9, 11, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 16, 16, 16, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 18, 20, 22 in the order of the order of the other acts. The General Assembly will continue its work until talks are completed on Thursday (December 7th 2017) until the 465th legislature. Under Article 91 of the Law Bill 506, it has been proposed to be considered the basic law and to have its sections in the accompanying form. Bilecik MP Halil Eldemir will speak as the party's proposal for Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0123par0110	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed lawmakers about our group proposal according to the 19th Amendment of our AK PARTY Group. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. The group proposes that the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws be placed in the front row of international contracts -- which are printed in 506 rows -- will be placed in the first place of the agenda after 48 hours, with the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions, as well as the alliance between groups. The Law Proposal No. 506 shall be extended until December 31, 2019, the extension of the payment of income tax on payments to athletes and fees, and the opening of day care centres for the elderly, the Union of Optians and Optian-Eyes of Ankara University of Music and Fine Arts shall be renamed as the University of Ankara Music and Beauty Arts, and the establishment of a new foundation by the Love Foundation of Ankara under the name of Lokman Hekim University, the establishment of a new foundation, the opening of day care centres for seniors, the opening of Turkish Optians-Eyes and Optians' Chamber of Optarian-Eyes, and the first offices of the Council of Human Rights, and the foundation of Jonah's foundation shall be reassigned. The group welcomes our proposal to the compliments of the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0124par0115	Thank you. Mush MP Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0125par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't suppose there's a second country in the world where college is built that easily. There are many academics who are members of this Parliament, or there are many lawmakers who have not been academics but have been involved in academic studies. Even opening a kindergarten in a serious, democratic, scientific-based country is harder than opening a university in this country. There is no longer a social need for opening a university in this country. As the number of universities increased in this country, there was a qualitative erosion. In this country, colleges and universities of applied sciences were opened with each and perhaps even before high school was opened to the districts. In this country, the government may boast of increasing the number of universities, the number of universities, the number of colleges, but if it can boast, it should also confront the degeneration of universities. It is the basic principles of social science to criticize power; it is the work of every academic who has a conscience and puts scientific foundations ahead of the wrongs of power; but one of the most important fears of power is the free-thinking academics. Imagine that many well-known and internationally-respected university members and academics in this country were expelled from universities alone and only because they didn't want their war and conflict policies, their blood policies. You may consider yourself removed from the free minds of this country, free-thinking and producing academics with those KHKs, but you deceive yourself. Imagine, like Ibrahim Kaboglu, Cem Terzi, Ayşen Uysal, and many academics, whom we can consider to be like him, not only are they being exported from their own universities by a low KHK, but they are being taken away from them to work abroad and abroad. The academics, who have completed their entire academic career in the world, in the number of universities in Western countries, cannot leave the country, so they can't go and work, even though they are invited from the world's most valuable universities. Now, in the shadow of all of this, I salute the entire General Assembly, saying that opening a new university will serve nothing but to lower the quality of universities.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0124par0122	Thank you. The last speaker on the proposal will be Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoc on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0126par0126	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, when we're in the National Education Commission and we're in other commissions, we say something very clear and clear, and we say: these laws are not seen enough, they're not evaluated enough, they're not evaluated enough, they're not evaluated in lower commissions. Later, the amendment of a clause related to technical issues, such as the tax payment of athletes, which they pay more and more, is discussed in the National Education Commission, but the Commission is concerned about Plan and Budget Commission. We say, "This should be discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission." But with all the stuff that we don't see enough of before we go to the Plan and Budget Commission, the group's deputy presidents are coming, and they say, "We have brought another 13-point, two-part law with AKP's motion. We're going to change the names of the universities and we're going to make changes in taxes. There are laws in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Now, today, we've come to talk about international agreements, we've identified our fellow speakers, and the group's vice presidents have made the deal, but we're going in, and we're looking at a motion, a bag of laws, and none of our friends are ready for it, and they're not warned about it, and they're coming in here, and they want to talk about it right away. Such laws hurt the public conscience, such laws do not respond to the public conscience. We just spoke to our citizens from Sur district of Diyarbakır. There, our citizens spoke of decisions made in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, that thousands of people were left homeless and were forced to leave their homes without getting what they deserved. ▪ You make these decisions. They said, "Why don't you people discuss these decisions enough for us?" So I said to them, "We're fighting for it with the other opposition MPs." But they bring it back to our brothers and sisters who live in Tyre -- who are suffering in poverty, our brothers who have been taken at no cost, and our brothers who have not been given a home -- the decisions of your lives are spent here in three minutes, five minutes. Now it is the duty of all MPs to ask their account and stand behind them on their behalf. I ask you to stand firm against these laws, against what has happened, and with respect.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0127par0130	Thank you. I submit to your votes the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1355) I demand that my original Law Proposal, under Article 37, be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. As the bidder, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş will speak on behalf of Interior Charter 37. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0128par0143	Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers are seeking, in essence, to be suspended in the scope of the July 15 coup attempt investigations, to stop the criminal executions in favor of convicts or in favour of prisoners -- in favor of cases which have been prosecuted by judges and prosecutors who have misused their jurisdiction. Yes, we're very involved in the judiciary these days, although this term seems to never end, but it's a rhetorical process. You know, it's like, you know, there's a theater in New York with a judge's hand. There is a tent court there. But they forget this: Here is the scene of the prefabricated theaters and the trial of Demirtaş, not tomorrow, but the day after. Yes, unfortunately, theater can be played with the hands of the judge. We've seen this theater for a long time, and even the fact that our current deputies, our mayors, are already in prison, that the proceedings continue to be held in our name without slowing down, shows that the theatre continues here with all its power. The government, which is not very good with the law, is quite capable of playing this game according to the color, smell, texture of the era. The day has come, Ergenekon has become a sledgehammer; the day has arrived; the name of these theatres has come, and, of course, the end of the theatre, where they have developed ways to get all the opponents into prisons without name, without name, for some reason. The independence of the judiciary and its adherence to the law is fundamental, but the AKP government is trying to use law to its own advantage, and its law is severely deviated from law in order to protect its own rule. Dear lawmakers, I have lists of names of judges and prosecutors with tens, hundreds of judges who have been expelled, arrested, even convicted, and there's no way that we can explain in which cases these judges and prosecutors have made convictions, and what indictments they're making, and who are currently in prison because of these sentencing decisions, but unfortunately, there's no way we can explain this because the deadlines are too limited. But I'd like to point out that several courts, Ankara 4. The High Criminal Court and several similar courts have also adopted a way to renew the trial in the KCK files, but all other courts are certainly avoiding the way to renew the trial when it comes to Kurds, opponents, HDPs, DBP residents. That's not all. As lawmakers, we now have the signatures of prosecutors who have been tried, expelled and arrested for many trials against us, and we opened the exhibition of these proceedings in our group today. I really suggest that the ruling party MPs go and pay a visit to that exhibit. See what you call Fezleke. You'll find there that the prosecutors are almost preparing a trial for our cough, for our step, for us to open our mouths, for us to be found without saying anything. These are very singular examples, but I would also like to say that the Constitutional Court has decided in the Selçuk Özdemir case, dated July 26, 2017. A judge is being arrested for his investigation, and he's carrying it to the AYM, to the top judicial body. The Constitutional Court has explained in detail how long the Fetullahists, the prosecutors and judges who served at the time, had deviated from the law, and how they were plotting, in the decision of Selçuk Özdemir. Now here, obviously -- he was the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case -- you know that there was a time when the president of the AKP -- the prime minister who called every term for the arrest of BDP politicians, the arrest of HDP people, and then said, "We've been tricked," didn't he? He did. He said, "We've been tricked." But isn't he also being deceived by the cases of the judges and prosecutors? Well, in that case, I suggest that the House set up a will to renegotiate these cases, and with the acceptance of this law proposal, at least open a door to unlawful trials in the matter of justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0129par0150	Thank you. I submit to your votes the proposal of Civil Code 37, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdogan has been nominated for membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which has been idle in the Commission for Assembly Research, which has been established on purpose to determine and protect the Restitution of our Absorbiting Cultural Beings. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Good luck with that. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin talks with Justice, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report (2/45) of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, who has been ranked in the first place. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 506 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the entire group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın is the first to say on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0130par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the general proposal for amendments to some Laws in 506 rows. I salute your high council. Respected lawmakers, we are again alone with a cocktail bag of laws that maintains diversity, even though there are fewer of them than before. I wish we'd spent hours in the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports -- even though there wasn't a lot of participation -- taking the time to clear up some hesitations and bring them here in a healthier way, but unfortunately, even though we were told to bring them in tomorrow, we found it today. So, of course, we're here to solve problems as a legal body for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of the nation, for some problems, but when we look at it, we want to tell the Turkish nation that is watching us right now that their priorities are really being pushed away, they're being put aside a little bit more. So, before that, there's a staff job waiting for good news, teachers have problems, they have problems not being appointed, sir, some problems in the judiciary, their words and so on, when we deal with all of this, unemployment is just a nuisance, an increasing inflation. If we could have discussed them more carefully and made some healthier decisions, but if we really look at the content of the coming law proposal, yes, there is a number of materials being done in the need, as well as the presence of the criticism, matuf, sir, a number of issues that have not been very urgent or very important to consider were placed in the same bag. Yeah, that's how it is, of course, in order of which, we also referred to Mr. Secretary yesterday, and we said, "Look, you're always talking about universityization, yes, we're really kind of proud. We went on the road to schooling at around 186, sir, including 114 public universities, 67 foundation universities, 5 foundation universities. But of course, our number of students has reached about 7 million 700,000. These are the things that make us happy in numbers, but, you know, the relationship of quality and pleasure is very important, so there has to be a connection between quality and quantity. While a numerical majority is being provided, it is considered to reflect on the quality, sir, the development of the country, some beauty, technological development, knowledge, skill, but at this point, unfortunately, our expectations are in vain. I made a statement to Mr. Secretary at the time. Yes, indeed, if only our universities had more infrastructure prepared, teachers were raised strong, and then these universities were presented to the public, we could have achieved some more qualified results. So I said, I said, yes, we have universities, but let's see what happens when we get into colleges from now on, or when we're starting schools at these universities, and we're opening departments at these schools, let's do jobs-oriented, so let's take into account the supply demand balance. Sir, let's focus on whatever jobs in the private sector in the public, whatever profession-related educational institutions are needed to address their problems. He tried to do it in part by the foundation colleges, but we don't see it in public. So, yes, we have to start a process of employment-oriented division, employment-oriented faculty, employment-oriented universityization if we have a claim called the vision of the Leader Country of Turkey. While you're doing that, of course, there's no limit to merit and driver's license. Honourable lawmakers, now, there are some things in our society that we believe that we can really positive in this bag of legislation, that we really believe can satisfy the needs, that we can think of as a salve to some bleeding wounds, that we can think of, it's not, it's not. At the beginning of all this, sir, what is it? Here's the opening of daycare centers for the elderly. As you know, this was thought only in context of the disabled, but not only in context of the disabled, but also for the elderly, the opening of daycare centers only for the night is really in the 21st century, sir, a manifestation of an approach that is in accordance with Turkish law and tradition. Another important thing, again, sir, is that another university has joined the theme college chain. The Lokman Medical University, founded by the Love Foundation, was mentioned. Yes, with our contribution, with our support, as a foundation university of this university, it would be a joy to have a health-related health university in particular brought to Turkey. And when we're building the infrastructure of this, it's our greatest expectation of developing in line with the top theme. Another important issue is that, once again, this decision was made to address some of the problems that happened to the Turkish Optian-Eyes Association and the early formations of the Optians' chambers. Well, we supported that, too. It's a really good decision because we've listened to sides, listened to shareholders. It caused great hardship because of lack of authority or management or organization. It's become a common form by our decision as something that we've already established. Honourable lawmakers, however, have also tried to make some very difficult decisions to truly accept or justify in apocalyptic consciences. First of all, we need to stress something that is mentioned in Article 1. This is about the extension of the application period of Article 72 of income tax law No. 193, which is organised for athletes in fees and fees. Now, what does it contain? It wasn't given much detail, but in light of the research that we've done, it was intended to solve the financial problems that someone or some of the clubs have actually fallen into. Now, for God's sake, we have an executive ruling on taxes in our Constitution, which says that Article 73, if I'm not mistaken, the winner is responsible for paying taxes in accordance with his income. Now, for God's sake, respected lawmakers, there are people in our community who work for minimum wage, and there are a lot of brothers and sisters in our society who actually work hard at the private sector, trying to earn their way home in the evening. Now, at the point of truth, you really shouldn't hurt their apocalypse conscience. I mean, in terms of american terms or in public terms, as the people call it, isn't it our motto now that we have more than less than a few winners and more than a few winners? Well, then, for God's sake, we learned that a professional footballer -- all of his fees included, and that's what we learned -- from the transfer fee to the month, from the month to the month -- has a revenue scale that includes all these fees, which is a terrible number. From this figure, a 15 per cent taxation is not appropriate for the mind, the law, justice, and the principle of equality. In that sense, we really have to be the voice of public conscience. There's no way that kind of instalment is possible. So there's no explanation for 20 per cent of low-income incomes, 30/s, 35/s, plus a tax on athletes, sir, millions of dollars, euros, and a 15 per cent tax cut on the figures. In this regard, really, we want to use our right to criticism very, very specifically. Another important thing: we're going to another college change of name. Now, for God's sake -- thank God we're all here with a certain educational background -- what about Ankara Fine Arts University? Ankara University of Music and Fine Arts, not Fine Arts. I mean, it's like orthopedic and medical school or something. There's always a relationship between content, the content, the content, and the inclusion. It's not Turkey, it's a broad, insightful expression of beautiful arts all over the world when it's made a general definition of good arts. Believe it or not, we're talking about a concept that involves music, stage art, painting, painting, sculpture, sculpture, subsidiaries of other beautiful arts. Fine arts, which started with division. In our universities, this process began primarily in sections, the Department of Fine Arts; then they became facultyed and grew content; as in other sciences, additional contents, additional sub-base branches were added. Then, now, thank God we're getting into college. Thematic collegeization process is a very reasonable process. So the University of Health Sciences, the University of Social Sciences, the University of Sciences, but the University of Fine Arts, that's what the way of mind requires, and that's what the way of knowledge requires, but it's really counterintuitive to try to judge it by taking a branch that's covered and taking it in front of it. What about the fine arts? If music is a priority, then let's not call it good arts, let's call it the University of Music. If it's indispensable, it's Ankara University of Music Sciences, but when you say Music and Fine Arts University, it's absurd. On the other hand, in terms of music, I'm saying that it's well thought out in terms of thought, but such a name change doesn't really respond, or, of course, in a very general cultural definition that includes music, one of the things we can't do is, of course, there's always a place for music in the culture of a nation that's been filtered through its centuries, in the culture, in the tradition, in the tradition, as well as there is a place for vision. So the most general concept, which covers the idea of culture, but as a smaller concept of beautiful arts, is that there is a concept of music, and it's not really a very acceptable thing to do, to bring it in and use it as a pre-inclusion of a science branch, and to use it as a prerequisite for music and fine art. Respected MPs, one of the other important things that we do particularly constructive criticism is that criticism does not mean "yes" or "no" or "yes," or "yes," or "no" or "no" or "good" or "bad" or "bad" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good" or "good." We have our measurements here. If it's really in the country's best interest, sir, as the National Movement Party, if there's a troubling expectation, of course we'll do our best, but in the name of truth, we have to tell the truth. Now, one of the other things that we're concerned about, is that this is the Trustee Committee of the Dolphin Emre Foundation and the Board of Directors. Now, look, we've had a lot of discussions here about the Board of Trustees, if you remember, we've had a lot of discussions about the foundation, and we've even discussed it with the Maarif Foundation. What was on the agenda in particular? We said, yes, there's this foundation, considering a number of decent international foundations that exist in other countries. Sir, the foundation's name is very accurate, its mission, its vision is very accurate. So in the 13th century, Yunus Emre was a very important Zatimuhterem who actually contributed a great deal to Turkish language, Turkish culture, Turkish thinking system. So this foundation, which is called Jonah Emre, has a high ideal, a high vision. What's that? Teaching Turkish language, introducing Turkish culture to the world in the international arena. Now, wouldn't such a high-profile foundation, for God's sake, take anyone from the subject experts, neutral NGOs or institutions to the board of directors? Look, we even said, this is a high mission. He'll teach the Turkish language in the world... there's a limitation of competencies here, who'll teach him. He'll be an expert once in a while. So, like everything else, we're going to consider the merit and expertise here. What else? Well, we have very competent institutions. We actually have a very important hundred-year-old institution that has a mission to teach Turkish language, to promote Turkish culture, to spread it. So why don't we get some logistical support from them or some support from the decision-making mechanism? I mean, what's wrong with the Turkish Language Foundation entering these committees? What's wrong with the Turkish Historical Society being part of these delegations? If the Institute of Ataturk Culture, Language and History is in this delegation -- look, our friend who represented the head of the YKK yesterday, we want the NGO to have it, too. What's wrong with him? Or what's wrong with having a TUBA to represent the SEC? Now, at this point, we really, really, really, really create a sense that it's an entirely political-advantage foundation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is, indeed, an obstacle to our activities of purpose. There is no such structure in the operation of the Goethe Institute. There is no such arrangement in English culture, American culture, or Rockefeller Foundation. Of course, our government's rulers should have a say in the matter, but what is the activity? The activity, the introduction of our cultural and linguistic values to the world, the movement. Then why don't they say: "You have these boards of authority, why aren't they in this foundation?" We'll lose our credibility. What's wrong with that? The Turkish Language Foundation must be present at the decision-making point, the Historical Institution is found, someone representing the ÜBA or the ÜK. At this point, we've expressed our offer yesterday, and we'd like to repeat it today. Yes, his mission is a high foundation, his vision is high, but we all go abroad from time to time, for God's sake, sometimes we meet a delegation of representations so far away from driver's license and integrity that it does more harm to have a foundation represented by people who are incapable of using Turkish language or Turkish culture. In order to address such problems, we have to make constructive warnings. Honourable MPs, we started in Dolphin, we continued with Jonah, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish with a dolphin anecdote. Really, we come from a culture that, as we know, knows that we don't know. So Jonah Emre says that the person who does nothing wrong is the person who does nothing, and the biggest mistake in life is that he thinks he's right. So we're wrong because we're trying to do something, but the greatest virtue is to turn away from the mistake we've made. I salute your high council with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0131par0190	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0132par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in particular, I would like to express our thoughts about this bag of laws in 506 rows, before expressing our opinions on our party's behalf, about some allegations of bribery, which have remained up-to-date in the last few days, which should be resolved by the jurisprudence. Obviously, what's in terms of political power in the country is the process of taking whatever crime is and taking it into a low blow, and putting all of its problems -- problems, bribery, corruption, political staffing -- on top of a parallel state structure that the political government itself has made a monster of. It's a parallel state structure at the beginning of each sin, which, as this power travels arm in arm with them, the social opposition has stated that this parallel state structure will eventually plague this country, but this structure, which the political power has raised and monsterized, will also blow against 80 million people, and this parallel state structure will also become a means of covering up the sins and sins of political power. For some reason, the political government is trying to sweep away all their crimes, all their sins, under the rug of the coup. So much dirt has been swept under the carpet that this parallel state structure has been swept under its carpet that the carpet is swollen, it's become a huge mountain pile. As if it was a coup, the political power was given a suit of immunity from sin and criminal license. If there was a coup somewhere, the political power that was exposed to that coup would not be involved in any crime, the armor of sin would be granted, and serious allegations could not be dealt with. Let's put it this way: there's not only a parallel state structure that's been brought in politically and put this state in trouble, but this political power has also produced economic barons, these political power rant barons. He has entered into unregistered economic relations with both domestic and foreign barons, and at the very moment, some economic rant barons he's trying to escape the judgment of the internal justice he's now politicizing -- whose powerful claims he's partnered with political power remain in the middle -- the crime of destroying international justice or some countries in other countries -- then what is it after that? It's called a frame-up. What is it? It's called assaulting a national will. Now, imagine, there will be a huge amount of talk, and these will be taken off the record, where the people of this country will be able to go commercially, to be transformed into the food of their own people, their own children, their own personal wealth, and their collective wealth, but when the end of it is touched by political power, which does not need to be touched by serious claims, with serious documents, where the political government is the owner and co-owner of this business. As long as they don't go over them, this theft, this bribe, this curtain of rant will not be opened and this black spot will not be lifted over political power. As our esteemed Co-Chair expressed in a speech a month before his original political coup, the political power claims he is not a thief, and if political power claims there is no corrupt, corrupt government, there is an easy way to do it; and the work of those mentioned and mentioned with serious documents has been established, and you will lead to the judiciary. Unless those mentioned are brought to trial, you will live with it unless they are judged by an impartial and just judgment. Political power claims he's not a thief. If he claims that he has nothing to do with bribing, corruption, stealing the beneficiaries, and he wants to be cleared of this, then all of those mentioned should be brought to justice immediately, which is under the obligation of political power. What is it? Panamanian documents. No sir, our Prime Minister has nothing to do with the money transfers to Man Island? No, our President and his relatives had nothing to do with it. The case of Reza Zarrab, which you traded for years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years and years, and years and years and years and years and Sir, it's a setup. We don't see it that way. There are some serious allegations in the middle, whether these are real or false claims, or whether the political government rejects them, or whether they alone can help us expose them and keep them on the agenda with their documents. In this way, he faces the responsibility of the politicalised judiciary to be immediately neutral and independent and to be judged by those mentioned. Now, think about it: it's called corruption. It's called corruption. It's called conspiracy. It's called "pumps." It's called "stealing." It's called "stealing." It's called "stealing." It's called "stealing." It's called political staffing, it's called the wrongful export of the Academians, it's called the fallout of the Academysians, and the spear of this political power, which is driven into the middle of that vortex, is no longer in the bag, let alone to remove itself from this vortex, which is increasingly credible. You can't take everything away and attach it to the 15th of July's low blow or call it an attack on national will. I don't see it as an attack on me because in this commercial movement, neither our party nor the social opposition, nor the interest of 80 million people. Here, the other day, Deputy Prime Minister says: "Reza Zarrab is there to reveal state secrets, to reveal secret government information and documents. " They don't ask the man: If he really reveals state secrets, there are serious secrets, information and documents. How did he get this information, the documents? We're not interested in whether Reza Zarrab had disclosed state secrets and slandered political power; we're interested in how the political government had access to these secrets, these secret documents, secret information. How did someone who later became a citizen of this country get such classified documents? But we know how he got it, and on one hand, we remember the Prime Minister of the period, and on the other, when he entered the privacy of this country with the ministers. I'm closing 15 percent of the country's foreign trade deficit. We remember the days when it was said, or when it was given superior rewards by ministers -- not more than 20 days ago -- not for its life, but for its health, but for the country's sixty-five years of NATO allies. All of this will stand in the middle, huge allegations will be made with serious documents, but what's it gonna be called? Sir, we are not on that ship, we are not just in the power will, which is defined as that national will. Dear lawmakers, the other issue is the Solidarity Platform with the opposition parties today, the unfair destruction of their homes, the signing of documents that will provide them with a very small amount of money as part of troubled publicisation, the forced removal of their homes, and the cost of the homes to replace, they face the reality of the fact that there is not even 10 percent of the money presented to them. In the middle of winter, the people of Tyre are condemned to homeless. It's still in memory, two years ago, when the dead prime minister said, "I'm going to do Toledo on the Sur. " Now that prime minister's place is in the wind, and political power and old roadmates have thrown that prime minister at the wolves' table. He's the prime minister who can't even give conferences at colleges where he's been studying for years. It's either a little loyalty or something. One of them comes out, and another one in power, and this guy, he's the prime minister of this country, he's written books like bricks, he intends to make Toledo some part of the country. Now he's come to the days when he can't express his mind, how freedom of thought and expression is needed for him. That's what it's like to have a person face their work. You've been the prime minister of many young people -- Turkish, Kurdish, Alevi, Sunni, uniform -- and, oh, don't, things that can be solved through dialogue. You said, "No, we'll crush it." And now your will, your honor, is being crushed, and one person from your party doesn't take care of you. This must be what power drunk looks like. The guy who took over the seat thinks he's gonna protect it until he gets to his grave. No more than a year and a half ago, the prime minister of this country, one of his most valuable academics, the books he wrote like bricks, didn't mean much to us, but he was drawing a foreign policy dream from North Africa to Central Asia, which was wrapped up in him with four hands. Now, he can write a new book, and he can't share it with his students, with his people, that's power. Dear lawmakers, when I took my word in accordance with the Interior Charter 60, I said again: Three hundred ninety-seven days ago in this country, there was a coup to the real politics, civil and democratic politics. On November 4, 2016, a black spot fell on this country and fell on political power. Think about it, the prosecutors of five different counties have detained two co-chairs of a party, deputy leaders and lawmakers at the same time, making them political hostages today. Even the deaf sultan knows well that even those who voted for the political power know that because they said, "We will not make you president, not because they are involved in a crime, not because they have a criminal claim; but because they do not think like political power, because they criticize political power's policies that harm this country, because they are defending themselves, their friends and party members, because they say, "No" to the regime of one man, "We will not make you president." There's no neutral and independent judgment at any stage, not a shred of universal law norms. Three hundred ninety-nine days later, two days later, our esteemed Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, and tomorrow, our esteemed Co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, will be arraigned. This document is an example, it came out today. Ankara 19. The court, which arrested our Co-Chair, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, said that the trial will be held in the prefabricated courtroom at Sincan Prison compound, not in Ankara Courthouse where he was arrested. Political power has been prefabricated by a sense of justice and has made itself helpless. Political power has transformed the conditions of a healthy trial into a way of building court halls, corrosion, degeneration, which is physically present in its own mentality and soul. It's a shameful thing to do. Voicing that this country has increased its resources, the political government will judge the Co-Chair of the 2nd major opposition party of this Parliament in a prefabrik courtroom of 20 people. As we have already claimed from the beginning, this is actually part of a fictional game -- just as their arrest is part of political genocide operations -- I don't want to insult the theatre today -- but it's not in New York, it's in Turkey. Those arrested for their own thoughts and opposition to power will be tried in prefabricated courtrooms with a fiction, so to speak, with a sleazy theater. You've already been condemned, condemned to consciences. Go, convince an AKP people first. Everyone knows that the arrest of Demirtaş and his friends had nothing to do with the charge of crime, that these operations were carried out by political experts, and that there was only one man's regime and AKP power at the head of this. Just Turkey? The whole world is watching with an example. Now, in all these environments, colleges are being established. One time, you said a coup, and then, with the KHK, you can't pass the law, the process of appointing the rectors by one person, just as you put it into effect... think of it, the rectors who will run the entire universities are determined by one person. Even a day care center can be taken with a more serious procedure.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0133par0210	Elections cause unrest, so...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0134par0211	Let's get rid of the election, Ibrahim.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0132par0212	It's the way of those who don't believe in democracy, who have nothing to do with democracy, who have broken their ties to freedom, who have surrendered their souls to the custody regime. What happens if the university is founded? What happens if there's 500? Now, Mr. Secretary is also an academic. When the AKP came to power, what was Turkey's number of universities among the first 500 universities in the world, and how many are they today? Stop with the colleges here. What if we had 5,000 universities? What if we had 50,000 universities? What's our number of broadcasts in the top 500 colleges in the world that are being scanned in the international index? We're not very interested in the opening of a new university in a reality where one person has taken over the entire country, academia, university understanding. And I'll tell you something else: during the AKP, the number of universities has doubled in 15 years, and the number of university students has increased by 2.5 times; you can brag about it. Did the budget for higher education increase in 2002? No. College's going up, student's going up. As you're very proud of it, academics who don't think like you are being expelled are being brought in and made academics, but there's no increase in the budget. What kind of college understanding is that? It's about degenerating universities, politicizing universities, making universities dependent on power, taking universities out of being the home of free thought.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0135par0215	It's not that bad. There are 7,000 universities in America alone.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0132par0216	You're confirming me.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0135par0217	Seven thousand.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0132par0218	But you're confirming me. So, what's the budget for universities in America, and what's the share in Turkey? And if you leave them now, if you make them banned, if you release academics from this country who are not allowed to work because they were expelled by the KHK, there's a wad of world universities that can accept them in one breath. You'll expel academics who don't think like you, thousands of them. Why? Because they signed for peace, the social memory of this country, its glory, its insights are able to solve this country's 100-year-old problems through dialogue. Because they said that the path to conflict is no longer the way of the 21st century, this is the unforgivable sin of the academics because they said they did not think as if they were ruling on the Kurdish issue. What is it, he's been propaganda, and some of them have even been tried for organization membership? No matter who boasts about all these practices as a student at the university for twenty-one years, I express my shame on these practices only by greeting free-thinking academics. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0136par0223	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0137par0225	Mr. President, Mr. Yıldırım used the expression "politic coup" in his speech as he described the situation regarding the trial of some HDP MPs. This is basically an open insult to the will of the House, beyond the AK PARTY, and I demand a statement based on 69.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0138par0226	Oh, hell, no! Are you offended?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0139par0227	How did five separate courts come into play?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0140par0228	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0141par0233	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, it is our duty here to obey the rules, the Civil Code, the law. The Civil Charter 66 refers to the speaker as not to leave the subject, and Mr. Yıldırım knows that. Basically, it would have to be a judgment and assessment of the law that we're talking about, but it's very broad, it's very out of the question, and it's been brought up here by Mr. Yıldırım in the past, and I also want to express to you how inappropriate and illegal it is in the context of how I find the definition of expression wrong, and how I find it very embarrassing, and how it is in the outcome of processes that he's talking about. Now, where did these judgments come from? The MPs have immunity.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0142par0236	Come and have a look at the exhibit upstairs, Mr. Naci. Come and see the exhibit upstairs.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0141par0237	Not just the AK PARTY Group, but the vast majority of what we call the will of the Parliament, which is called the will of the nation, opened the way. You can object to them in the past, but why did the vast majority of you make the decision that constitutes the will of the nation, and what is the situation here? You need to make an assessment, both political and legal assessment. That's what you have to do first.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0143par0238	Did we do it, Mr. President, you did it. Don't forget your ministers, four ministers...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0141par0239	Mr. Davutoglu is the owner of the blood policies. He says Mr. Yıldırım. We know how the bloody policies are implemented by whom we are in this country. Go to the public, ask them, wherever they are in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...who owns the blood policies? Say, he will give you the answer.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0144par0242	They call it authority, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0141par0243	What the government does, what the government does, what the government does, is not only ours, but the dignity, honor of all power, what it has to do, to take care of this country's well-being, to fight the legitimate powers of the state for the welfare of the people against the owners of bloody policies.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0145par0244	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0141par0245	You can't describe this struggle like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0145par0248	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0146par0249	Mr. President teased me that he found part of my speech inappropriate and embarrassing.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0145par0250	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0146par0253	There's a good thing about my speech. Apparently, Naci Hodja is too uncomfortable and can't feed them and can't touch them, so he's trying to get rid of it in some way. Whether you accept it or not -- there are lawmakers among us -- someone should say that within the legal and judicial system, there is an institution in which Turkey's five separate districts of the republic has the authority to operate at the same time, at the same time, at the same time. If it didn't happen, the same day, the same time, the same time, the five separate provinces are acting as the president of the Republic, the name of the operation is not a political coup, it's a political coup, it's a political coup. Anyone with a little bit of a legal acquish will not be able to take action at the same time as the state prosecutors in Turkey's five separate districts, without any direction from the political mechanism. I've told you before, and I'm telling you again, if you're afraid of iron, you're not getting on the train. He is so afraid of the trial of Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, he is so afraid to bring them to court, he finds reasons for the prudence, and I can't guarantee his public safety. If you say so, you will not perform this operation. Even the deaf sultan knows that the AKP is the owner of this political operation. I can give you dozens of examples like this. Like I said, your caliber, your vision is the size of a prefabricated. If you're judging the co-chair of the third largest party of this Parliament in a prefabricated room of 20, I'd say it shows your horizons, your caliber, your vision. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0147par0257	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last speech is for the Republican People's Party Group, and belongs to İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to begin my speech by greeting the meaning and importance of December 5th, and I'd like to say happy 83rd year for the Turkish woman to have the right to choose and be elected. No movement in the world has ever succeeded without women behind it. There is a beautiful saying in Asia Minor: "The woman shaking the cradle shakes the world. " I greet our women with these feelings. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, the bag of legislation we're discussing today is a picture of our basic shortcomings in three fundamental issues -- the situation in our tax system, the situation in our educational system, the situation in our foundation. If we start paying taxes in the order of the law, then the tax system in Turkey is basically destroyed by the tax system. Forgive those who don't. If some people don't pay taxes for a while, they'll get a pardon anyway. However, the arrangement for the tax you bring here is an arrangement that will also hurt their conscience. Here you extend the tax on the income of football players in the Super League to 15 per cent. The tax ranking from European footballers is: 56% in Norway, 47 per cent in Germany, 50 per cent in Austria, 56 per cent in Portugal, 45 per cent in England, 15 per cent in Turkey. Now, they asked Hoxha Nasrettin what is 2 times 2? He said: "What is the tax system, what is the tax rate according to the AKP government?" When it comes out of my pocket or when it comes into my pocket? (Applause from CHP rows) There's no sense, really, such a wide range of tax systems, or rather systemlessness in any country in the world. Football players, of course, are supported by Turkish sports, but within the general income distribution in Turkey, within the tax system, lawmakers, for God's sake, when you're taxing even the minimum wage, you're taxing 18 per cent from your engine, from the people's, middle income, teacher's, engineer's salary, tax revenues to 35 per cent of the year, what conscience do you put into the tax reduction of million football players? (CHP cheers) I'm waiting for an answer from here. Unfortunately, when we looked at the tax system in Turkey, we saw that a few weeks ago, when you took the tax tax from 20 to 22 per cent from 20 per cent to Turkey, the ruling environment and the palace environment established their companies abroad so that you wouldn't pay taxes in Turkey. Members of parliament, the tax paradise for the ruling part of Turkey is Malta. Man Island is Turkey for the footballers. Beşiktas footballer Pepe explains why he came to Turkey: "The tax rate was higher in the PPPV, so I came to Turkey because I would not pay taxes. For them, the tax paradise is Turkey. Good luck with that. Congressmans, the second issue: a new university is being established. Turkey has 186 universities, 187. Who says no to starting a new university? Of course it is. The Love Foundation is starting Lokman Doctor's College. We wish him well, we support him, Turkey needs more educational institutions, but when we look at the general picture at universities, there are now 300,000 quotas empty in Turkey. Once upon a time, young people, when you think about studying in college, being a college graduate in a serious form of identity, imagine if today there are 300,000 quotas available at universities. Mr. Secretary -- there's no Minister of Education here, but he has valuable assistants -- said we're very successful in the education system. Of course, so much success in the educational system is measured by the constant number of changes in the exam system, I don't know about it, but after changes made just two months ago in the exam system every week, every 15 days, students began to think that after the changes in the university exams, they began to think: "Is there any change in this system until the exam is finished?" They began to think about it now. While the education system has really turned into such a sabbatical, the main concern of the National Education Commission is what should we call colleges, how many should we do? If it's limited to the number of universities, we've seen what the result of the training you've made yourself, lawmakers. Of course, the foundation... this bag of legislation is being changed by the way the Dolphin Emre Foundation governs and by the people who will be involved in the administration of this foundation. Once again, I want to emphasize the danger: if you continue to establish foundations, associations, which are so unsupervised, out of control of state institutions, that only one person can manage, be prepared for new parallel structures. For the purpose of the establishment of the Dolphin Emre Foundation, lawmakers... this foundation, founded in 2007, would introduce Turkey to the world, introducing Turkish language, culture to the world. It's not said what this foundation does in these areas, but let only one person determine the leadership of the foundation, just the palace, the only concern we have is these MPs. Now, there will also be representatives of the Turkish Maarif Foundation to take over the administration of the Yunus Emre Foundation. What is the Turkish Maarif Foundation? Turkey's Maarif Foundation... is to restore schools abroad to Turkey through this foundation. But not to Turkey, unfortunately, but only to be restored to the ruling community, there's no other concern.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0149par0277	There's no such thing here. I'll fill you in next week, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0278	I propose to lawmakers from the ruling party: enter the website of the Turkish Maarif Foundation. It says: "The last number was about 230, the new form of these schools, the ones that we took over from schools in the world that used to be owned by the city. Congressmans, there are nearly 2,000 schools in the world. Just a few years ago, you're flying in and out of those schools that the state elders started, and now you're going back to them, and you're saying, "We came three years ago, when we opened this school with the government elders, these were coupgers, these were terrorists." For God's sake, give it to Turkey. Can't you? Can't you say... give it to Turkey's basic Ministry of National Education? No, not the government...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0149par0280	It's the foundation. Whose foundation is it?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0281	...you intend to build a parallel new structure.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0149par0282	Mr. Balbay, the foundation is your national education.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0150par0283	Isn't that the government's foundation?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0284	Enter the list of executives of the Turkish Maarif Foundation, the representative of TÜRGEV on the management list, who worked in the youth branches of the Justice and Development Party in the past; there is no one on the outside, I claim, look at the list. You have created a one-man, one-coloured structure, and now you dedicate it to Yunus Emre. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, don't make Yunus Emre. Yunus Emre is the name of tolerance, of loving Jonah Emre, of embracing those who are not like Jonah Emre, but what is this foundation that you have established abroad to promote Turkey? Bring Turkey to a positive place in which country, let's see, but it doesn't exist. What? You're now narrowing down the administration of the Dolphin Emre Foundation. Who are you narrowing it down from? Congressmans, you are removing the president of the Turkish Language Foundation from the administration of the Yunus Emre Foundation. Is this the president of the Turkish Language Foundation a person appointed by CHP, bringing another power, and changing it? Is that because the president of this Turkish Language Foundation is from opposition parties or another coalition partner in the past? No, it's your own appointment... to establish a palace staff... and the current structure is not enough. You're discharging the SEC representative. And since we approve of the SEC representative, it's not necessarily good with the RCC representative, but you're taking it out and changing the structure of the Dolphin Emre Foundation to create a foundation that the President will choose.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0150par0286	There are undersecretaries, undersecretaries.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0287	Yes, but you're completely changing the current structure again, lawmakers, you just changed it six months ago. And this foundation that you have established in 2007, okay, has opened diplomatic missions in certain countries, but what are we going to introduce Turkey? When you look at it, you've established the Dolphin Emre Foundation outside the country, it's beautiful, but we want to introduce the Turkish Foundation, there's so much good stuff on culture, on the history of this country that we're going to introduce them. It's called the delegations, when the executives outside the country, when people want to put a list in front of it, unfortunately, they won't find much. Our President-General stressed today that while addressing all of Turkey, Erdoğan, the leader of Justice and Development Party, said in 2002, "Is Erdogan the same as today's Erdogan, weigh it?" Erdogan was going to bring Turkey into the European Union at the time, and now he's turning Turkey against each other. (Applause from CHP rows) Erdogan was attracting the capital of the entire world to Turkey, the land of freedom, and we opened up to the world. What's Erdogan doing today? I declare the fugitive a traitor. He says, "I declare him a traitor who takes money out of the country." He sees that the money is very bad, he's burning badly, this time I didn't say that, that's what he has to say. Congressmans, here, in Turkey's own conditions, we shape our own country, our own media, our media tells us what we want, other than that, you're in a hurry to make Turkey look like a rose, but the last painting shows that it's not. Now, I just stressed it. The state of the Republic of Turkey, which you are unable to satisfy, has called terrorists, but we don't think so. I'm counting the names of the countries that say: Ghana, Nigeria, Madagascar.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0151par0291	They don't say that in Nigeria, I just got here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0148par0292	No, it's still... Congressmans, let him go, there are already more than 200 schools in America. Come, put your hat in front of you. See how this painting was created and how we got out of this painting. For you to get out of this painting, first think about what material we're going to give to the members of Turkey's Dolphin Emre Foundation in the world, members of the Dolphin Emre Foundation, who are going to introduce Turkey to the world. One of the things you're going to give them is that no one is in prison because of their opinion in Turkey, and no journalist in Turkey is in prison, and no deputy in Turkey is in prison. You have to be able to say, "No one is in jail." Otherwise, what is the value of these institutions, even if you add to the Yunus Emre Foundation, and add Haci Bektas to it? And then you take out the representative of the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges of Turkey from the Dolphin Emre Foundation. I wonder if he's turned to opposition, too. Are you worried about the future of someone other than them? As you narrow down this staff, you get smaller and smaller. As you reduce it to one color, you're actually hurting both Turkey and your own power. Congressmans, of course, in these purposes of the Dolphin Emre Foundation, of course, there are a lot of things that we approve of, which we wish were such a foundation, and in many countries of the world -- Germany, America, Japan -- all of them, you've established your own university in the past few months, for example. What did he come to Turkey with? The Japanese Foundation. He's coming with a university that introduces his entire country. So are the other countries. But I'm afraid this attempt that you've started with a beautiful purpose, is in the near future, narrowing down the administration of the Yunus Emre Foundation, and I'm afraid... it's a different thing, of course, in the international world, with dark ends, but you're creating other power centers here. We also see representatives of other foundations in Turkey. We see that the foundations that benefit from the possibilities of the Ministry of National Education have already established separate organisations for themselves, creating separate positions for themselves, lawmakers. All of this, of course, again, especially the foundation of the Yunus Emre Foundation, we said we'd separate it from this law, and we'd evaluate it, but the Commission was in a hurry, so let's finish it right now, and let's finish it by noon tomorrow... but you had to change all the laws you've made in such a hurry six months. Look, that's what happened at the Yunus Emre Foundation. Once this law is passed in a hurry again, you will have removed all the foundation administrators from the House. What's it gonna be? Then you'll be reassigning. And your new recruits will be out of your league again. Because that's it, all of it. When you say "I," you can't possibly come to any conclusions here, Mr. Lawmakers. Currently, in particular, the tax system, the education system, the foundation system are the main pillars of each country -- not just Turkey. Come, review this tax reduction of football players from the Super League, especially in this tax system -- in this bag of legislation -- you've put everything in it. Give up more taxes than you can get 35 percent for some, 15 percent for others, less for the very rich, less for the very rich. The more colleges we open in the education system... it's not the number of schools, it's the amount of signs, it's not the number of signs. Come, gather an educational service in the education system, but relocate the training with representatives of all parties. That's not a distance to take with the examination, we've done the testing system, we've changed it. It's not a distance to be taken with the MPs. Come, in this foundation... In all the democracies of the world, there are three basic principles: accountability, clarity, sharing. None of this is in your understanding of governance right now. In this foundation, right now, it's like the Ministry of National Education used to be a picture of people from the past, of public education, of people from the past, of education, of all the mature institutions that you've gathered in a separate foundation, of people from all around you in the whole area of life. And there's no end to this method that you're now implementing, lawmakers, just like the failed results came out in the PISA, which you did not trust the PISA again. It's positive, of course, that you put this bag into the law, especially the Optians and the Glassmen's Association. We ask that these troops of the Optians and the spectarians bring themselves to higher ranks in their professions. Other than that, the last thing I want to emphasize is the establishment of the Fine Arts University. Congressmans, just six months ago, you made the teachers of the fine arts high schools out of norms -- from Mr. Vice Minister or Minister -- who taught fine arts on May 10, 2017 -- and here I expect an explanation from the minister -- you removed the regulation of the fine arts education. Now, of course, you're building a university, a university is a positive form, no matter what, but when you eliminate the good arts in schools, there's a fight against drugs, lawmakers, there's a fight against any kind of negativity. I want to complete my words with Jonah Emre. I say to all of you, if your heart is broken once, it's not a prayer. It's not a prayer. It's not a prayer. It's not even two nations.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit03spe0152par0303	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0152par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal No. 506. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Karabuk MP Burhanettin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0153par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of all of our proposals to change some Laws in 506 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. The bill aims to ensure that the period of implementation of Article 72/12/2017 of the IRS Act No. 193, under which the payment of income tax for athletes, which is considered a fee and a fee, will be extended until 31/12/2019. The name of Ankara University of Fine Arts is changed to the University of Music and Fine Arts. I think this university will become a musical university with a addition to the name of the University of Fine Arts, and therefore will have a phase of going to thematic universities. I'd also like to point out that it's a good decision to go to thematic universities. The basis for human development is education. As EC PARTY governments, we consider education an investment in our future from a long-term perspective. We see education as a process that improves the quality of our people's lives, that makes our country's human resource competitive with the world, and lasts a lifetime. We're constantly trying to make our education system better, more efficient, more efficient. Opening universities in every city in Turkey is very important for the development of the qualified manpower our country needs. If you look at the pace of development of countries investing in higher education, you will see what a wise decision it is to open new universities in Turkey. Increased political, economic and technological competitiveness of our country, which is moving with confidence towards becoming a regional and global force, is mandatory to invest in higher education. When the EC PARTI came to power, the universities, which were only in 40 counties, were opened between 2006 and 2008, and were spread across the country, especially with state universities, with at least one in every city, and as of 2008, the country was without universities. As of today, we have a total of 184 institutes of higher education, including 112. Our number of students has reached 7 million 764 thousand. Adding the University of National Defence and the University of Turkish-Japanese to our universities, we have reached 186. The next phase of this growth process in our higher education system over the last decade is even greater in quality and quality. In this regard, the quality board, the mission change and residency, regional-based universities, research universities, research in primary areas, and 2,000 Ph.D. scholarships have been implemented by the Higher Education Board for this purpose. New universities will lead to competition, diversity, employment and the creation of new information. In order to contribute to meeting the demand for higher education for the young population, it has also been planned by the Ankara Foundation for Love to establish a new foundation university called Lokman Hekim University and to open an engineering university within the university and to produce tools and instruments used to identify and cure medicine in this engineering school. Isn't it a contradiction, especially when they talk about the inadequacies of newly opened thematic universities, that some people are talking about the lack of qualified attendings at the hospital? Another amendment was made to the Social Services Act, and at an active living centre among social services agencies, there was already service for disabled individuals in order to improve the quality of life for disabled individuals, to contribute to their active participation in social life. In addition to disabled individuals, it is possible to provide services at active living centres for elderly individuals. The EC PARTY government meets the requirements of being a social state, one by one, mentioned in our Constitution. The proposal also aims to go to a simplification of both the Trustee Committee and the Governing Body, which was established in 2007 and operates in 2009 and operates with 54 central and 100 liaison offices in 43 current countries, and is a very important foundation for the Yunus Emre Foundation, with its mission and vision. The Trustee Committee of the Yunus Emre Foundation, which operates to promote Turkey, Turkish language, Turkish culture and art, and the Governing Body are intended to redefine its structure. He will be the head of the Trusted Committee of the Yunus Emre Foundation, which needs to be decided very quickly, and he will be the Minister of Culture and Tourism, and he will be replaced by the ministers of the Trustee Committee of the same ministries. This is the result of the gains and experiences of the Yunus Emre Foundation over the course of ten years. Thus, the foundation's decision-making processes will accelerate, become open to direct control, co-ordination and co-operation with public institutions will be facilitated, and opportunities for foreign activities will be increased. I wish the changes brought with the proposals of the law good luck to our country, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0154par0021	Thank you. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. Dear AKP MPs, strange things have been happening in Turkey lately. In the past, the people you work with either deceive you, sell you, let you down, or you choose to walk the road with them knowing what they are. An example? For example, GER. What was it at the time? It was Fetullah Gülen Hodja. Now, what happened? ▪ He became a terrorist. Assad? What was Assad? Assad is a brother. Then what happened, Assad? It was the murderer. Apo? At one point, he was the peace ambassador, and then he became a traitor again. And then there's Zarrab, the philanthropist, not long ago. Now, what happened? It's been a spy. I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding these relationships of yours. And Mr. President, the president of your party, what does he say? She calls us the mother-in-law party, the traitor party. When the arm was easy with the arm, when we warned you, you said to us, "Hain"; and when we warned you about dirty talks and negotiations in Oslo, you said to us, "Hain." This man Zarrab, when we called him a cheater, a briber, you called us a traitor; he was a philanthropist, we were a traitor. Friends, when I say betrayal, I think of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, like many others. Look, the Oslo talks were a betrayal; the relations with ▪ were a betrayal; the dirty relations with Reza Sarraf was a betrayal of this country; I wanted to remind you of them. Congressmans, there's a case going on in America now that there are such strange relationships... that there's an ad where people want people, they make Halkbank, right? That's the biggest lie I've ever heard. In advertising, I think they'll tell the truth. We thought the People's Bank was a public bank, not a state bank, a private bank, the bank of Reza Sarraf. You know, even the general managers paid a lot of their wages, bribed everyone at the bank, and the bank worked on it. And what's he saying? What has the people done for the people, and what has the people done for the people? He dropped the interest? What did he do for the people? But Reza Sarraf did what he wanted, was sanctioned, political power instructed, and you will do it. He said, "Ha, take your reward and your rights." Now, look, the developments there... last Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım said the right thing, and I like Binali Yıldırım, he's telling the truth when he talks. What's he saying? ▪Riza Sarraf sold us out. It's true, I agree, Reza Sarraf sold you out. He does not say that Sarraf has slandered us. He says that Sarraf has sold us out. It is true. If one of the two former partners complains to the tax office after the partnership is broken, it will be called selling. Now he's in front of the U.S. court, and he's looking at it, and it's expensive; he's out, he's bribing who, he's laundering the money, he's laundering the dream exports, he's bribing who in Turkey to get out of prison, he's putting a question mark on it, I think he's going to tell it. I don't know how uncomfortable you guys are about this, but I'm ashamed of what this guy has to say. There, yes, it's about you, thank God, not us. We haven't caused trouble to men like Reza Sarraf, but in the end, as a member of the Republic of Turkey, we, as citizens, have been working with bribes in the outside world.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0156par0032	When he died of curiosity, he even gave him a note.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0033	Sure, honey, I told you that here, after the note was given. See, now, America is about to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, isn't it? Give me a note, do you have enough heart? Sir, what happens? He would have cut off ties with Israel, if America had known Jerusalem to the capital. It's like, if you hit me, uncle, I'll be angry with your son. It's like a strange understanding; it's impossible to understand. Come on, give me a note.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0157par0035	Did they give it to you for the note?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0036	Sure. Mr. Bostancı, did you give the U.S.A. a note for the extradition of Mr. Secretary, did you give it to him?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0158par0038	Musical note?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0159par0039	Reza is worth more than Jerusalem!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0040	Look, there he is, the terrorist leader, trying to stage a coup. Didn't your government, who gave you two notes for consent, give you one note for the return of Fetullah Gulen? We're waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0160par0041	They're wondering if he's missing.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0161par0042	And they gave him a reward, a reward, for Zarrab.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0043	Now, you know there are documents that Mr. General President recently announced in the group. You remember, before the papers were released, they insisted on documents they didn't know about, right? On the fake, Allah says that your party's spokesman is still a fake. The government spokesman says something else, the President never mentions the forgery of documents; he says: "There's no money, there's money coming. The people want to know this, if the money has arrived, if it's gone, it's important in the second degree. The point is, how did this money get made? It says there's a trade relationship. By God, what did you buy and what did you sell? I wonder, what did they buy and what did they sell, buy donkeys and sell horses? What's the trade? How does $15 million come and go in exchange for the trade of a one-pound company? How do you earn this money, where do you get it? Look, let's take a look at the people who sent these coins. Now, these people are special people, they have something in common, Mr. President, they all have a special relationship with Mr. President. Who? Like his son, for example. Well, I wonder, my friends, Burak Erdogan was just a brother who was studying on scholarship until yesterday. Now, I'm asking my brother Burak here, Brother Burak, if you could make $3,750,000 in wire transfers by collecting scholarships from charitable uncles.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0162par0045	Mr. Ozcan, let's not bother with the character, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0046	Okay. There's also a statement of goods from our President when he was elected President in 2014. It says: "My son Burak Erdogan owes me 500,000 liras. When I saw this, I said, Burak, since you have earned the money, I thought you should have paid your father first. Who's the other one? Brother-in-law. Who's the brother-in-law? Retired teacher. My dad's a retired teacher, too. I looked, retired teacher Ziya sent $5 million. I went to my dad, and I said, "Dad, I think you're a lot of money, and you're a retired teacher, so give me five grand; look, he's making $5 million." My father said, "Son, I had five million dollars, five thousand dollars, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan said to cash it. We cashed it five times a day, fixed the roof with the money we bought." Congressman, look, what are we talking about?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0163par0049	Mr. Tanju, the minister who gave the award to Zarrab is here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0050	Yeah. Now, lawmakers, we're having the most important days of Turkey's recent history, as far as I'm concerned. At the end of this period, we wish for some enlightenment in Turkey. Let Turkey get rid of this pollution. And don't say one thing at a time, and look, I'm very uncomfortable with this: I'm the ship when there's no problem. When there's a problem, we're on the same boat. Either, friends, we're telling you over and over again: we're not on the same boat with the corrupter and the devourer, we're not on the same boat. (CHP) We are not on the same ship as the traitors. Sometimes when I get angry, the words don't work out the way I want them to. So we're not on the same ship as those who made dirty negotiations with the terrorist organization in Oslo. We are not on the same boat as those who walk arm in arm. We are not in the same boat as those who laundered the ministers who took bribes from Reza Zarrab. So once you're stuck, there's a national interest. Don't say that, don't mix your personal interests with your national interests. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's or your personal interests are not the national interests of the country. We -- with all due respect -- can't defend our national interests by defending the briber, the corrupter. You can't do it, and you can't make us do it. Yes, I also -- at the beginning of my promise -- Mr. Secretary, you know, Israel declared Jerusalem its capital 70 years ago; no one knew it. America is preparing for recognition. But Mr. President -- I don't really understand this, if you make a statement -- says: "If America recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, we will sever relations with Israel.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0164par0053	When it comes to power, you do it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0155par0054	Why can't America give a note for Reza Sarraf, who recognizes the capital of Israel as Jerusalem? I'm waiting for an answer. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0165par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0166par0058	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0165par0059	Mr. President, Mr. Tanju basically gave an insulting speech from the beginning to the end. Her usual attitude...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0166par0060	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0167par0064	Mr. President, you should have asked me what I said. You ask us every time.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0166par0065	I'm listening, I'm listening, Mr. Ozcan. We invite you to the subject, but unfortunately, no one's getting into it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0168par0068	Tanju Bey has a way of speaking. You see, in the logic of those metaphors, there's actually an idea of order, a logical reasoning, basic norms, very far from that, but in the form of a sort of Vectism of calling out to the cheerleading team.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0169par0069	He spoke to the consciences, Mr. Tanju, to the consciences.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0168par0070	So on the basis of reason, you're saying here, it's wrong; you're saying it here, it's wrong. An answer like that, that logic doesn't deserve the logic you have, Mr. Tanju. In fact, such a language in parliament's negotiations is not a language that CHP has applied to as a group. We're all here together, and I've been here since 2011. Tanju Bey Sui generis is an example, a unique example. I think he's got a cheerleading squad, using a language like that to give a pep talk. This Sarraf case, December 17th-25th, these are... look, the bribery issue of these things is basically a fishing line. If I had a little attention, a little interest, a little justice, a certain interest in how this case works in the U.S., you'd have to read about what's there, the common destiny of this country, and the future of this country, and you wouldn't jump at it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0170par0073	Hodja, tell me a little bit about the content.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0168par0074	But that's not Tanju Bey's problem. It's not Tanju Bey's problem, it's the interests of the country, it's the imperialist politics of the United States, it's how I speak to the AK PARTY from here, in a cheap way. Good luck, Mr. Tanju. He's got a character that doesn't even deserve an answer, and yet I've been promised nothing to leave in the void. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0171par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0172par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0173par0079	One second... one second... and I'll make a reminder. Mr. Ozkoc, I promise, I promise you, but I have to make a general statement. Dear lawmakers, this does not belong to any individual or group. We are the people who are dedicated to the work of Parliament. We've got the Civil Code, we've got the regulations. We've always reminded each one of us to use our statements more carefully, given the style of speech here, both the regulations of the Civil Code and the presence and dignity of the Covenant. See, Article 65: No interruptions in the General Assembly, no engaging in personality and disorderly conduct. You list so many people who are not here; it is injustice, injustice. Second: There is a principle of commitment to the agenda, which must be kept on the subject. Article 66: The statement of the member of the Court can only be interrupted by the President to invite him to observe the Court and not to leave the subject. He wrote the procedure again if he does not return to the subject. Article 67: If the president immediately insists on speaking in a clean language and not using a clean language, he invites anyone who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly to leave the bench. The president, if necessary, can remove that person from the hall in the union. Again, there are similar provisions in disciplinary provisions. Please, dear MPs, I mean, we're not in favor of cutting back on the talks, we don't want to have to intervene, we don't want to have to interfere. Let's not use hurtful statements. So, what happens, if possible -- not if the Civil Code commands us -- you have to talk about whatever you're talking about, and if you don't want to talk about it, we can interrupt you on the stand. But, look, no congressman of ours is doing this, and we're paying the same attention. But please, please, please, each of us, each of us, with his power, his opposition, and when we speak to him on this stand, I say, let's be careful what we say, and let's talk about where he's going. Again, thank you for your sensitivity. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0088	Mr. President, with all due respect to the office of Speaker of Parliament, the language spoken by the Republican People's Party is not ugly, but their relationship is ugly. So you're teaching the Republican People's Party, based on the ugliness of relations described by the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0173par0089	I say it's rude and hurtful, yes, it's hurtful.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0090	I'm asking you, it's just...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0173par0091	If he's using something that's not possible to use on people who aren't here, it's a wound.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0092	Sir, you've given me permission to speak, so if you'll excuse me, I'll speak, and then you can talk.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0173par0093	Come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0094	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party will not bring anything that it can't prove in any way without a document to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0173par0095	Do you have a court order?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0096	This is the seat of the House. We bring in our claims, you do whatever you can to prove our claims.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0175par0097	What claim have you proven so far?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0098	You can rule the courts, you can rule the time of our conversation here, but you can't rule the will of the Republican People's Party, Mr. President. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm asking you, my friend, what...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0176par0101	I'll listen to your friend.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0102	Is that so, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0176par0103	I'll listen to him too. However, I made it clear to you by reading the articles of the Civil Code. Not only for the Republican People's Party, but for all MPs and all groups, this is the right of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament to lead this session. And so far -- and I've just expressed -- we're trying not to interfere, but, please, please, there's a working procedure in the House, which is a completely internal charter of the House, where we all have to comply and we all have to function at the same time. I've talked about these things.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0174par0105	I've offered our position, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0176par0106	Sir, yes, thank you. Appreciation is public opinion.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0177par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0176par0108	Let me listen to Mr. Bostanci, and I will listen to you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0178par0109	Sir, it was our turn.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0176par0110	I'll listen to you, I'll listen to you, Mr. Ozcan, just a second...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0179par0111	Excuse me, you have to promise me that. I just made a promise to keep it on the record.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0178par0112	What do you mean by that, as a congressman?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0179par0113	Tanju Beye, yes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0180par0114	To the MP, Mr. Ozcan... Go ahead, tell me.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0179par0116	Mr. President, we're talking about the fact that political claims have been made, as if they're wrong to use it in a manner that's been passed on to legal records, legal records, an impression, an emotion, an idea, in a language that creates an opinion. Otherwise, of course, the opposition will make its own criticisms within political arguments, but the argument is different, the subjugation is different. It's wrong to try to fill the distance between these two with language. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0181par0117	Just for the record, sir. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0180par0118	Please, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0181par0119	It's like what we're saying didn't happen, and we're making it up, Mr. Group Vice President. Mr. President, the Republican People's Party has submitted all documents concerning the offshore companies of the Prime Minister's children and the offshore companies of the President's relatives to both the law and the General Assembly. It is the AKP Group who rejects this. If they had, they would have been convinced if they had allowed a search here with the MPs elected by the House. We're trying to get the General Assembly to see what's on all the records that we've published the document. And one more thing, Mr. Group, we'd like to ask the Vice President very much. He talks really hard, and sometimes he uses words that we don't understand, but please, let him get down to our level. I'm asking him, we're having trouble understanding him. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0123	Thank you. Now, lawmakers, there's a universal code of law, which is bound to prove every case, but this isn't the place to prove it. You'll talk... about someone coming out the day after tomorrow... one day at a time or another about you, whether it's baseless, irregular, or not... about a matter we don't know, without a court order, would you like it if they found something very different about you? It's not like that. It's not enough to say that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0181par0125	Why do you have to answer that?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0126	What I'm saying is that we have to empathize, each and every one of us has to empathize.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0181par0127	I get it, but the group's deputy presidents will answer that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0128	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0183par0131	Sir, Your Honor, at least ten times, the orator has mentioned my name, and jumped on it, like an oath.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0132	Here you go, two minutes, and I promise you for teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease. We'd appreciate it if we could stay in the frame we just talked about.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0184par0134	Mr. Tanju, I didn't call you aamigo.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0135	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0185par0137	Mr. President, first, I want to thank you for reminding us of the regulations of the Charter. However, one of the executive provisions of the Charter was also ruled that the deputy speaker could not participate in the debates in parliament.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0182par0138	But it tells you where to join, which is where I joined.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0185par0139	However, I particularly like you, you know. However, unfortunately, as Acting Speaker of Parliament, I would like to express to you as a friend that you are acting as the deputy chief of the group, not to mention the point of neutrality.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0186par0140	It's coming from over there.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0185par0141	The second issue, Mr. Bostanci, is my style, how I speak; it is not your concern. My language may be different from yours. I didn't come here from the college bench; I came here on the street working politics, working hard, with my teeth, with my nails, from village to village, from town to town. They didn't find me in the court of the palace, and they didn't bring me here, and I came out of the chest, with my hard work.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0187par0143	We condemn that language, Mr. Tanju, and we condemn it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0185par0144	Thirty-four years later, as a member of the Republican People's Party, I came to this point, working hard, doing one-on-one politics. So I'm not going to learn from you how to talk at this age, I respect you. Secondly, Mr. President, the issues we're talking about have been discussed here for days, as a motion for investigation, not more than two years ago. Votes have been made for sending these ministers to the Supreme Court. A portion of the sensitive AK PARTY MP voted, "Yes, let them be judged, let them go to the Supreme Court; and if they are acquitted, let them be acquitted there." These issues are not new, but we've discussed them. If we could take these ministers to the Supreme Court, if we could send them to the Supreme Court, if we could get them to stand trial in the national judiciary, we wouldn't have to watch that trial in America today in shame.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0188par0147	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0189par0148	Mr. President, I believe that all the MPs here have come to work, to work, to communicate with the public, and to take their lands. No one has ever come from anywhere in a taxi. Lawmakers are also working, and people who operate in other institutions of this country come to them by crawling. One of them is the university bench. Mr. Tanju Özcan, I believe your husband was mistaken. It's not easy to get there either. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0188par0150	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're going to do the QA in 20 minutes. I'll give you the first ten minutes of these 20 minutes as a question, and I promise the government to answer in the next ten minutes. I promise you one thing at a time. Mr. Depboylu, come in.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0190par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are around 850,000 subcontractors. The new bag of legislation is scheduled to recruit subcontractors. How many of them will be cast? By what criteria will the recruits be evaluated if they're not all taken? Will they be cast by consideration of their knowledge, skill and experience, their merits, or will they be cast by subcontractors who have signed up for the Justice and Development Party's organizations or approved by these agencies or trade unions? If this bag of laws is adopted, will the subcontractor system end now? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0191par0160	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0192par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, virtual money has begun to be valued as a digital currency used all over the world. It is stated that an independent crypto money can produce different problems without being dependent on any centre or institution. What is your assessment of the government, which is defined in the online environment as digital currency? It is stated that digital money can be used in money laundering and drug trafficking. Is there an arrangement for this money that becomes a virtual entity when it has no legal basis? I think the view and approach of the government is important to Bitcoin. Is there a study of this subject conducted by your government? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0193par0164	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0194par0165	Minister, the attempt to reopen the channel in Efes Ancient City within the district of Selçuk of İzmir will bring with it some problems. Such a channel is not found in the current approved zoning plan for protection. The planned channel project is run by the Ministry of City, Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and its cultural assets are not considered. If the channel is made, it may be that we have a crisis in UNESCO, perhaps it is possible that Ephesus will be taken to the endangered World Heritage List. The tender must be halted in order not to happen, a new approach with the Protection Council, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, including the excavation should be on the agenda, the excavation must be priority before the canal, and the management plan must be implemented. I'd like your sensitivity in this matter.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0193par0167	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0195par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, today is the 83rd anniversary of the right to choose and be elected to Turkish women, and also the World Women's Rights Day. In our country, violence and abuse of women are becoming more and more common. In our country where women's murders took place almost every day, 27 women were killed in November alone, 29 children were abused, 39 women were sexually abused. There's no way to avoid it with Hamasi lectures or optimistic expressions. Our relevant institutions, especially the Supreme Assembly, must take immediate measures to prevent this course of action, as well as deterrent punishments, but at the same time a public awareness must be opened up. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0196par0172	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0197par0173	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, in our group meeting today, we'd like to show the Prime Minister about 17-25 December eight months before -- well, I'd also like to show it to him -- what is the reason why he's doing illegal operations on Reza Zarrab, and that your government is connected with the ministers of that day, and that it can do a great deal of damage to the government, although it's said that a position on the government of the National Intelligence Agency has not been created by your government, rather than by your government today? We'd appreciate it if you could shed some light on that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0196par0174	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0198par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is no asphalt road in the village of Bozır, Düzce Province, Yülca Province, and the citizen is a victim of this. At the same time, again, there must be a bridge on the Yulca-Asar turnoff. Since the bridge wasn't built, again, this Broken Village is a victim. Even though the residents and headman of our Yuğülca district have had intensive applications to both the subsidiary and the municipality and the governorship, these problems of our Broken village, which is in our Yülca district, are not being resolved, the Yulcas are constantly victimised. At the same time, the road between Yulca and Düzce is very narrow. Accidents happen all the time because it's tight. When will the expansion of this road take place? When will this sacrifice of the heap and the broken village be removed? They're waiting to hear from here. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0199par0179	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0200par0180	Thank you. December 4th is celebrated as World Miners Day in our country as it is in the world. In hundreds of meters below the ground, in dark depths, our miners, without sunlight and under a great deal of difficulty, are making significant contributions to the national economy while their children are earning their livelihood by risking death. The sector, which is considered dangerous and very dangerous, is the most active area of business accidents. I celebrate the Day of the Miners of the World, the Peace, Healthy, Job Without Accidents, honor and mercy of all our fallen miners, who have endured a great deal of strength to bring a handful of bread home to their homes so that they will not be helpless.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0201par0183	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0202par0184	Mr. Secretary, residents of Eces village who have not been paid for publicisation as part of the Northern Marmara Highway Project in the district of Izmit, my constituency district, and many more of our villages are victims. Even in a single village, the government must pay 60 million liras. Our villagers have long since taken their money, and because they can't farm their land, they're often victimized, and then the authorities they're looking for keep pushing them around and stalling. After we visit the village, the head of your party's Izmit County says that 70 million came to them as if they were dealing with the issue, which will be paid. Now, I'm asking you: were these 70 million AKP district presidents sent to the State's institution? The villagers who haven't had their money in months are going to get it from the AKP County President? When will the victims of the villagers be relieved? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0201par0186	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0203par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are 20,000 staff commitments to the appointment of teachers, and our teacher's deficit again is 100,000, according to the Ministry. Will this right request be met by our teachers who are expecting at least 40,000 appointments? Is there also a removal of the interview to address the injustices related to the interview? If it's not going to be removed, will the camera go into the recording system? My second question is that we all know the importance of sports. The girls' football team has been stripped of 2,000 liras per game for the away game by TFF. This, in particular, has led to the victimization of a girl's team of athletes with no parents. Will they be supported again in that sense? There's a special request for that, so I'll pass that along. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0204par0191	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0205par0192	Mr. Secretary, the MIT warned the Prime Minister in 2013, but you didn't listen. Earlier, Muammar Guler knew his father, Huseyin Zarrab, because he was in trouble with the gang as a result of a drug smuggling operation and was kidnapped. Why do these people lie in front of these people knowingly, knowing their dirty relationship? Is it right and right for these people to place this state before these people, to bring this shame to this country? The Minister gave this person an award at the time. You knew these people pretty well, but you humiliated the government because they were going to bribe you with a dime, a nickel, and transfer money to your foundations. You had no right whatsoever.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0204par0194	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0206par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, December 3rd was the day of the disabled. Therefore, a motion to investigate the disabled who were just given by the opposition party has been rejected by the AKP. I would like to point out that the audio library established by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality in 2014 under the Support for the disabled - Mr. Minister, are you taking notes? - has been shut down by the trustee assigned to the city. Can you explain the reason why disabled children have blocked access to audio books, which are being uploaded to the municipal website, which are being read and available in all Kurdish dialects to ensure that they can access the children's stories in their native language?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0207par0198	Mr. Gürer, you have 30 seconds. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0208par0200	Mr. Secretary, for the past two years, there has been a delay with the staff regarding subcontractors. In the last month, there have been explanations that will be resolved. Finally, there's a statement made by Mr. President. The conclusion was that there would be an arrangement between the subcontractors that would cause separation. National Education workers, family physicians, expect explanations of their situation as subcontractors. Besides, what about the temporary workers working on the highways and the Candy Factorys? How many subcontractors will it cover? Is he going to hire municipal staff or municipal companies to do the arrangements? Will the deals with sub-contractors in public institutions be eliminated by this subcontractor arrangement? Is it considered a study that will cover the entire expectations of subcontractors? Will there be equal wages and staff for equal employment? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0207par0202	Thank you. Now, I'll leave the word to Mr. Secretary to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0209par0205	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you very much. First of all, if you'll excuse me in the order of questions. As subcontractors, about 450,000 subcontractors, 400,000 subcontractors will also benefit from the scope of our subcontractors in municipal and municipal private administrations. The people of 4/C will come to 4/B status. In addition, the duration of their work period will be about six months to ten months. The final detailed study envisions that seasonal workers will be covered again. Our Ministry of Labor and Social Security is about to finish a thorough study of this matter. Another important issue is the question about digital money. Bitcoin; you know, right now, some of the countries support bitcoin, some forbid it. Doubts, doubts about bitcoin in the world have not yet been resolved. In addition, the Central Bank and the Istanbul Stock Exchange continue their work closely following the Bitcoin market. We don't have an official position in that sense yet, but research is being carried out. The subject is constantly evolving, the approach to this is changing, and I hope it gets to a certain point. I mean, some countries see bitcoini as a savior, and some people demonize it. We're following this course as Turkey. I also received a very careful note of his warning about the channel project in İzmir Efes. We'll work closely with our friends on the relevant issues. In particular, we will not tolerate taking any steps that will allow UNESCO to change his attitude here, and I would like to be known. I don't know, I'm going to tell our interested friends, our interested friend. Again, it is a matter of publicisation in the province of Kopeeli, which Mr. Hurriyet said: it is a waste of money to be distributed through the AK PARTI district presidency. Perhaps our friend there might have said it for political purposes or he came to our district. He would have said something. It's impossible to even think about.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0210par0212	How does he know the state's vault, sir?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0209par0213	I mean, it's not like he's gonna show up in the county, it's a waste of time, so would that happen? Now, hopefully we'll have 20,000 teachers appointed in the year 2018 regarding the appointment of teachers. Between 2000 and 2014, 459,000 teachers were appointed, and from 2014 to today, 102,000 teachers were appointed. So there was a 561.451 teaching appointment during the AK PARTY rulings, which is a big deal. We want our hearts to be free of any of our fellow teachers, but I think we all know that this is very difficult in terms of the possibilities of Turkey. Dear friends, there were some issues that came up in the talks about the Maarif Foundation. The Maarif Foundation currently operates in 68 countries, with 87 schools in 15 countries, 1,241 local and Turkish teachers, and nearly 10,000 students benefit from training under the training umbrella of our Maarif Foundation. There's also the question of why the audio library in Diyarbakir is not being used. We'll get some information on that, too. This audio library thing is one of the things we care about as the Ministry. If there's a hitch here, we'll go over it and find out the truth. Now that the bill on the Dolphin Emre Foundation is on the agenda, I would like to share a few issues with you about Jonah Emre. The Yunus Emre Institute is one of the key elements of Turkey's soft power, one of the institutions Turkey values in terms of public diplomacy. It is not only the development of Turkish language and Turkish literature, but it is an important organization that also operates in the spread of Turkish culture in many places around the world. There are 54 cultural centers in 43 countries, 85 Turkology departments in 46 countries and we operate at 139 contact points in 61 countries in total. Dear friends, last week, we opened the Yunus Emre Institute in a very beautiful building in the city of Hartum, Sudan. Here at this institute, students who had previously performed their activities in an old-fashioned way, not in the new building, spoke to the participants in an excellent Istanbul Turkish language, read poems, and also read letters...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0211par0219	Is it because of GER?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0209par0220	...in a place like Hartum, they gave an example of how beautiful Turkish can be taught, and some of the issues related to Turkish culture can be met. In many countries I've been to, I've been trying to keep up with the work on this issue. It is with great maturity that the Yunus Emre Institute raises all of our proposals to a further point. This organization needs to go further. We are now teaching Turkish to nearly 100,000 foreigners. Again, last year's event, which the Yunus Emre Institute hosted here in Turkey, with more than 800 students taught Turkish in their country, was extremely important for about two months. Especially today, when some negative perceptions of Turkey occur around the world, 800 Turkish friends come here and travel through many cultural centers for two months, above all recognition. As long as we increase our resources, let no one doubt that we will increase the power of Jonah's Command. In addition, our Yunus Emre Institute does not only teach Turkish, but performs an important activity in their own country to promote Turkish culture, with exhibitions, with conferences, in some way. Again, for example, recently -- for example -- in the hall of our Yunus Emre Institute in London -- one of the two people -- who had been Britain's ambassador to Baghdad for five years, and one who had also served as a UN Permanent Representative in the past; another, his teacher, a Kerkuk-based Turkmen -- we opened a spectacularly beautiful line exhibition, and with an extremely high-level turnout, we opened that exhibition together. Thus, the Yunus Emre Institute is carrying on in a serious way, which will increase its activities further in the process. Again, we're inviting 800 people in a year. About 2,705 people who have learned Turkish in their own country so far come and travel here in the summer months, and they are able to get to know Turkish culture, the beauty of Turkey, the hospitality of the Turkish people much more closely. The Yunus Emre Institute, you know, has a grand council of advisors. This Council of Counsellors is an extremely serious advisory board with people from various fields and ideas related to the territory of Turkey. We strive to maintain the very vocal property of the Council of the Dolphin Emre Institute. In Turkey, we invite our people from various NGOs -- both from the academy and from serious unions -- to the Council of Counsellors and benefit from their knowledge. There's also an Inspection Board at the Yunus Emre Institute. Once again, I would like to say that the Yunus Emre Institute is also a representative of the Republican People's Party on the Inspection Board, and I would like to say that the ruling party is also a representative of the Justice and Development Party. I'd like to state that all activities of the Yunus Emre Institute are subject to inspection, and that the Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Finance is in charge of the audit. Our board, as of all its activities, is open to control at the Yunus Emre Institute. Especially Mr. Gazalci, representative of the main opposition party, I believe his mandate has now been renewed... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0212par0229	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0209par0230	The Gazalist is also on the Governing Body. So the Board of Control is open to everyone, and all our activities are open to everyone. I say it's a debt of respect for all your positive support, and to make the Yunus Emre Institute a world brand with such offers from you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0212par0232	Thank you. So the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 7th article. The first statement on behalf of the groups who wanted to speak on the first chapter belongs to Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0213par0240	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute the General Assembly. In the meantime, we'll discuss...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0214par0242	Mr. President, there's a hum in the living room.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0215par0243	Mr. Ersoy, just a minute. Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall. Please, let's not ruin the heart's reputation.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0216par0245	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group, I'd like to share our thoughts on our approach to these issues with you, the General Assembly, and the followers of the beloved Turkish nation, in action from the new foundation university and the Yunus Emre Institute, established in the relevant provisions of this bill. Members of parliament, first of all, we would like to say that the university should not be the place of the transfer of information, but the place where science is produced, and the center of common intelligence and common ethical and moral values as a result of the combination of differences in searching for facts. This universal definition makes the university universally condemned. In a country where knowledge is not transferred, but through knowledge, the way of truth is developed. Well, how does that work? The only way to do that is by reading and understanding, by becoming his follower. Nurettin Topçu, who was seriously followed by Turkish conservatives in this regard, criticised by an intellectual from his era who pondered our fiscal case: Today, demand has become a degree hunter, not a journey of knowledge. All right, is the process of learning to become a degree hunter the fault of the student, the failure to put a vision in front of him, and the blame of the administration? Is this just a matter of the governments that provide the transitional period, or is it our problem in education that cannot sit down and become a political state policy? First of all, in order for us to find the point of origin, we have to be able to get Turkey out of this deadlock by side with our employment policy based on production and labor, based on the sweat of our foreheads. We say that the healthy walking of the way of knowledge, the way of truth, will both reach a degree and reach bread with a degree. Look, I want to give you an example. The history of Turkish civilization held 150,000 books together in Harezm, in Merv, in the 14th century, while there were only 78,000 books in the Sorbonne, and in the Vatican. The same ratio today is against us. Let alone the West, America, Europe, China increase the number of broadcasts at a rate of 15 percent per year, and with the potential to reach the top in ten years. Dear lawmakers, whoever has many books and reads and reads these books and develops an attitude based on understanding of it has power, and the one who has power rules and rules. Again, as we remember the late Nurettin Gunny, I would like to transfer a statement of Peyami Safa. On September 4, 1959, I expect the comparison between what Peyami Safa had said and what was said today. Is this really something that we need to think about by putting our heads between our hands, or is this something that we need to get out of the debate floor, out of the polemite by bringing criticism to each other? In that regard, I invite you to consider today as you read the word of Peyami Safa. The deceased says: "Victor Hugo, who opens a school, closes a thousand prisons." As schools grow, we need prisons because we don't have a system of discipline that rises above spiritual foundations. We don't think there's any moral merit in giving information alone. Let's not put all this weight on the fallen shoulders of the maharaf. We need to refresh the spirit of the country. Let's open the windows wide. We're being poisoned. We're about to lose our heads. Now, we're sitting here, from Mr. President to the Council of Ministers, we're all called education, education, education, education.../ Culture, culture, culture.../art, art, art... It's a result, my friends. Culture is a consequence. The result of what? It's a result of the process. Without interference, these results have the potential to take us seriously to social dissolution, decomposition in the middle and long term. Another issue, in the same context, was the result of a very important vision of the Yunus Emre Institute, just like the TİKA The state has taken the initiative, institutionally, and it's done its job. Turkish foreign policy was created only to perform a cultural diplomacy from diplomatic embassies and attachés, and in a serious way to conduct our state's fifth arm operation through culture. We sincerely support the reason for this creation, but of course we have criticism that the content of these institutions is more qualified. Now, who's the friend who runs the Yunus Emre Institute? I don't know his name, but I know he's a German expert, a German philosopher, I hear. Is that correct, Mr. Secretary? Yunus Emre is a representative of Turkish, aesthetic and Turkish culture. At the beginning of this Institute, we would like to have a person who has had a history of Turkish, Turkish culture, Turkish art, Turkish aesthetics, Turkish philosophy. The change of the trustees here, to make the coordinator I'm talking about healthier, it makes sense to have these cultural officials abroad who have a mission abroad, but to make it even more meaningful, there are serious scientists who know the concept of cultural diplomacy as a side of this, who know Turkish sociology, culture codes, Turkish folk scientists, Turkologists, and Turkish civilization, who think about it, and who think about what can be done for the sake of culture, just by turning them from books and studies into actions, in terms of culture, in terms of what can be done for the purpose of revitalization. With these, we need to be careful what we can do there, coordinated. Teaching Turkish to strangers is an important mission. Exhibitions, fine arts, importantly important activities related to the representation of Turkish culture, but look, how foreigners take this subject seriously and follow it: I want to give an example: No need for a foreign mission chief's name, a member of a foreign mission chiefship in Turkey congratulates our friend who has a doctorate in Syria, and they follow books published through ISBN codes, and they take statistics and databases of thesis in Turkey to his country and foreign policy. There is a school in England called SOAAS (School of Asian and African Studies), where I stayed for four or five months. In fact, I was able to observe the process of transforming into our own state policy by doing fine works of the culture of the British Empire, which is culture-based, or rather, the culture of the target masses. There are some very important people here who are going through this from very valuable lawmakers. Why can't we do this in our own country? I mean, we've only expressed Turkish culture through demonstrations and representations, and we're proud to see the Yunus Emre Institute in Shanghai, especially in Western countries and in Central Europe and the Balkans. What kind of moves can we make to that region through the Yunus Emre Institute on the cultural reflection of Chinese politics? We have to rephrase the contents of this. Because we have a responsibility. If missionaries such as the Maarif Institute of Yunus Emre can't do their job well, we will have to compare the state with the structures of a gang, a terrorist activity. They compare the power of the Turkish state with the power of a gang operation. If the gang has done better before, if the Turkish state can't do better, what will it be? In serious consideration of this sensitivity, he says it is necessary to put in place men, men of integrity and intelligence, friends, and never, never, ever, near of it, to be paid more seriously, not as missionaries for the representation of Turkish culture and civilization, and I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit04spe0217par0256	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0217par0001	I open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Tuesday (March 5/12/2017). Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erkan Akçay Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. 1) The draft of the 2018-Year Centre Management Budget Act and the 2016 Central Management Act for Computational Accounts (DB) will be on the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly (Special Age): 1st and 2nd, and budget talks 11/12/2017 Monday (13 p.m.). By the end of the talks on the budget and the final bill bill, the official holidays included, 11 p.m. every day. Continuing work from 00 to the completion of the daily program, 2) The completion of the talks in 12 days is the final day of the budget talks, 22/12/2017, at 14 p.m. on Friday. Starting at 00 and continuing to work until the end of budget and final billing in this merger, 3) In the beginning, the entire budget is limited to ten minutes (except for groups and the government's presentation speech) when personal conversations (which can be used by more than one speaker) are limited to ten minutes, 4) The completion of talks on the budget and final accounts of public administrations in nine rounds, the printing of the programme, which marks the days of meeting budgets and final accounts of public administrations, the drafting of budget and final account law bills after the end of the tours, 5) Under Article 72 of the Civil Code, the five minutes of personal talks can be used by the individual speakers, one in each round according to Article 61 of the Interior Charter, one in favour of two members, one against one against the other, and one in the 7th round, sixty minutes on the 7th round, and 50 minutes on the 9th round -- this time can be used by more than one speaker -- the five minutes of the individual talks -- in each round, one in favor of Article 61 of the Civil Code, and one on the other against the entire budget, and one on the other on the entire budget alone -- or at the end of the entire budget. 6) In budget talks, questions are asked without justification and the question-answer process for each round is limited to ten minutes of questions, ten minutes of answers, 7) A commitment to groups and government for one hour at the end of budget talks -- which can be used by more than one speaker -- is the ten minutes of personal conversations in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 506. The commission and the government are in place. The second word on the first part of the proposal is for groups, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0218par0034	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in fact, have just been quoted as saying that the trial of our co-Chairs is tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. In this regard, I'd like to share with you once again how much progress has been made so far and how far the Council's approach to this matter is far from acceptable, how desperate it is. You know, in the last few days, all over Turkey and the world, not just in Turkey, but there's been a lot of fuss going around. What he said, what he did, who he blamed, who he bribed, who he was involved with before, we all have to follow them from national channels, not from pool media, not from Internet accounts, because it concerns Turkey directly, not just the world. However, a severe censorship policy continues to be said about birds, insects, documentaries. There's also a new trend; the NATO alliance, the United States alliance. Zarrab was a philanthropist until yesterday, you know, when he was a citizen who was given plaques, he confessed today, he became a slanderer, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, we're listening to this. Only those who say that, you know, look inside your own house, look inside your own house! You refer to the court there as a court of law, where, strangely, prosecutors are investigating the New York prosecutors on Saturday, but so far, one of the judges he said had bribed is in the Supreme Court. I'm not giving you a name so you don't hurt your personality rights. This judge is now a member of the Supreme Court. I gave him a bribe to get out. He says. Why isn't there an investigation into that Supreme Court member? Is there an investigation into the prosecutor who lifted the restraining order? He says he paid 50m euros for the waterfall. Why aren't the prosecutors taking action? That's where we stop to think about judgment. What is this judgment based on? That's how it works. Co-Chairs of a party, Figen Yüksekdağ, one Denizhattin Demirtaş. I can't say that Mr. Yüksekdağ Sincan will appear in court the next day at Demirtaş da Sincan, in three hundred and ninety-seven days, because it's not being released because there's an order from the Ministry of Justice, and there's an order from the Justice Department to identify his statement. We are waiting for an answer from the Minister of Justice. There is no statement from Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament at the time. He said, "I have met with the Minister of Justice." But so far, I have not instructed the Justice Department or the Government. I have opened an investigation into the judge who signed that signature. There is no statement because they have given instructions. What's this? I'm reading here today, folks, just two days before the trial: the issue of the trial or the case: the unlawful meeting and demonstration march, the regulation, the participation in their actions, the propaganda of the terrorist organization, the public provocation of crime. There's notice, the number. There will be a hearing in the prefabricated courtroom at Sincan Prison Campus. This room -- the lawyer friends left before noon -- 20 people in the living room, 20 people, you didn't hear wrong. Demirtaş and Yüksekdağ have almost 2,000 official, notary notarized lawyers. I've left the audience, how will thousands of lawyers stand in the hall for 20 people? The co-chair of a party... let's take a look at the date. That's not the end of the law. What happened? On November 4th, a joint operation was carried out in the five counties, and they were taken by plane from Diyarbakır to Edirne, Kandira Τya, and Silivri. Is the judgment independent? No, it's not, it's not. It's not like that. Did the judge decide that for himself? The private planes have been brought up on trial? In front of the lawyers, the judges said that on November 4th, we were all in court: let's be quick, because the plane is leaving. The bailiff says so, and we hear the bailiff with our ears. The private plane was scheduled to be prepared and taken by plane. So, what happens next? After Edirne, all were kept in solitary confinement for three months, and were kept alone. Then, as lawmakers, we can't visit our friends, our co-Chairs. People from CHP are leaving, bringing us greetings. We can't leave even though we're lawyers. What's the reason? No pleasure, no answer, no answer. Against the law, we're being obstructed by bullying, illegal visits. That's not all. The trial was launched seven months later in Diyarbakır. Months later, they said, "We can't guarantee Demirtaş's safety, we're sending it to Ankara." He came to Ankara. We did, okay, he's gonna stand trial. Ankara 19. Erdogan spoke, he said Yasin Börür, he said 6-7 Ekmet. The judge decided on the same day, he said: "Let this case be joined with the Yasin Böra case." Would it be so coincidental? Of course not. I mean, we live in this country. I tell this to the public, to the citizens of Turkey. I'm doing it to tell you how one party was held in prison by another political party with a huge amount of violence and a breakthrough in lawlessness. Then, luckily, the discrepancy went away, came back, came back, finally 19. It's been decided in the High Criminal Court. Fireball, nobody's taking this case. The last one went to 19. Then they said, "You can't come to court." Why? Demirtaş was a special person, he was known, they couldn't take security. Oh, my God! The President of the AKP is coming here with thousands of guards. Can't the government and state in this country take the safety of a trial? Can't he surround her? Why does a government that controls all sides take the representative of the will of 6.5 million people to court? You got it from Diyarbakır, there's no security in Ankara, there's no security in Sincan, there's no security anywhere. Then what are you after? Because you don't trust the allegations, because if Demirtaş speaks, because if he speaks, all these lies will be revealed, because they will be judges, not judges. You know that very well, and in the face of history, you will answer for it. You will all answer for this in Turkey, but it is in the international judicial mechanism. How is Demirtaş different from Bakili Bey? What's the difference between Kilicaroğlu and Mr. Bahçeli? They're all leaders, heads of their party. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). Would you be so comfortable if they were arrested today? You're trying to make the HDP forget, you're changing the subject. In this Parliament, MPs and presidents of the third group are hostages and the judiciary does not judge them. The AKP has seized the power to meet its own political accounts, and it is not being judged. Why would the co-chairs of a party be tried in a room of 20 people and a prefabricated place in a country where a murder suspect, a rapist, a accused person, can be tried in a room of hundreds? And you won't be ashamed to say that there's a tent court in New York. You can't even build a tent court! The court has turned into a toy. I apologize to the theater people, and I won't say you're doing theater anymore. You've set a world record for lying in front of our eyes. I don't suppose there's anyone else who's made such an unrealistic statement to this country who believes that. I'm asking the AKP Group: Why the prefabricated court? Why won't he go to court? Why is that court being prevented from being watched? Why were all televisions instructed not to show the HDP? Why isn't there a HDP on any TV channel? Explain these. You've done all this, you still can't download it in 13 percent of the HDP. We'll grow and grow and continue to be your nightmare. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0219par0045	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0220par0046	Mr. Mush, I promise you from your place to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0219par0050	Mr. President, thank you. I've watched the conversation very carefully here, but first I'd like to point out that while we're here critical of the law, everyone will look in a mirror first. Look, Mehmet Selim Kiraz, the prosecutor, was murdered in his office.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0221par0053	Did we kill him?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0219par0054	The DHKP-C terrorist organization killed him.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0222par0056	What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0223par0057	What's that got to do with anything? Answer my questions!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0219par0058	The DHKP-C terrorist organization killed him.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0223par0059	Answer my questions.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0224par0060	What a strange man you are!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0225par0061	He's not answering the question.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0226par0062	The secretary stated that the terrorist group supported them and that they thanked them.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0227par0063	Don't lie shamelessly! Don't lie shamelessly! Don't lie!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0226par0064	Such a character has nothing to say or criticize us on the matter of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0227par0067	Don't lie! Don't lie!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0228par0068	Get out of the arms of the child!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0227par0069	You're a liar, you're a slanderer!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0228par0070	You get out of his lap. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0229par0072	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0230par0073	It's hopeless!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0231par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0232par0075	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0231par0076	Mr. President, he's making it sound like he's got something that doesn't exist, and he's making it clear to the General Assembly that he's taunting our orator with a slander, a lie, a manipulation of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0233par0077	I want to prove it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0234par0078	Yeah, you're full of shit!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0233par0079	I can prove it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0235par0080	What are you gonna prove?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0236par0081	We want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0237par0082	Here you go. Please, let's not challenge a new taunt, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0236par0084	Find new lies, new lies.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0238par0085	Yeah, yeah, new lies.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0236par0086	Find new slanders.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0238par0087	Mr. Lightning, you've had it, these are reality, we'll show you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0090	Mr. President, thanking an organization, whether it's a terrorist organization or not, is not in the Turkish Penal Code, but to take 50 million bribes from Zarrab, to place him in institutions all over Turkey, to lie in front of him...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0240par0091	Where is he? Where, where?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0092	... awarding him with plaques is a crime all over the world, and you commit it knowingly and willingly. Right now, until yesterday, you've declared the man you've given two notes to today a slanderer.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0241par0093	They gave me a plaque.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0094	You're the party that put the Fetullah organization in trouble for this country. The terrorist organization was all on your arm yesterday. Explain your relationship to ISIS, to ا, to Zarrab, to a thief, to a con artist. I don't care if you guys can't explain things like gum in your own way. You're in power, you're in power, but remember that one day, you'll turn around, and you'll sit in that defendant's chair.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0242par0095	That's what Demirtaş said.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0096	You know, yesterday, when you set up new courts to escape December 17th-25th, when you fired all the judges and prosecutors, the New York court uncovered all the dirty laundry. That Zarrab you trust so much, the world sees what a terrible government Turkey is ruled by as we speak today.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0243par0097	Oh, you sound like a bunch of people!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0244par0098	He speaks with his mouth.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0099	You're protecting a thief, you're protecting an ISIS, you're protecting an Islam, and you're still protecting one of them. You object too much, I think you're one of Fetullah's aces.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0102	You're a militant of the PKK!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0103	That's the main reason why you object so much.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0104	You're a PKK militant, PKK!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0105	You're hurt, you're hurt, you're hurt.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0106	Look, I'll show you the scar.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0239par0107	I say you'll pay the day after tomorrow, and I thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0109	I'll show you the wound in a minute. Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0246par0111	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0112	Mr. President, I've been picked on here. If I'm saying anything here...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0246par0113	If you want to talk about bullying, be my guest.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0114	I'm gonna ask you for some rough stuff, but...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0246par0115	Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0116	Over there, I'm thinking about what I can do to convince you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0247par0117	You're caught red-handed.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0245par0118	Let the General Assembly hear his testimony here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0119	Mr. Mush, it belongs to the Hati... Would you please... You can't...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0249par0120	Mr. President, look, what did you promise?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0121	Mr. Mush, I'm sorry, there's no way I can make you listen.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0250par0122	Wait a minute... Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0123	If you want to talk about bullying, be my guest. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0250par0125	Mr. President, I'll make a promise, of course, but how can I convince you?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0126	Okay. If you want a word, go ahead.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0128	Mr. President, based on what? Please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0129	Every time the vice president of the group asks for a word, I turn on the microphone, Mr. Yıldırım. Then I'll tell you why his microphone was turned on...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0130	No, Mr. President, you opened it without asking!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0131	I turned it off.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0132	Look, you promised without asking! We don't mind you promising anyone.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0133	How do you know he didn't ask for it? He hacked into the system here, hacked into the system.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0252par0134	Mr. President, I'm on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0135	No, Mr. President, when I stand up here, do you open the microphone?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0136	Mr. Lightning has entered the system.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0137	You can't rule so wrong! Please...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0138	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0139	Look, you turned on his microphone without asking!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0140	Look, from now on, I'm not gonna make any promises when I've seen your commitments in the system. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0141	No, Mr. President, I don't mind your word. He didn't ask for your word.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0142	I see him.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0143	On what? He didn't ask for it!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0144	Yeah, I promise...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0145	He didn't ask for your word!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0146	Mr. Lightning, sit down.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0147	Look, look at the records, what did you give them without asking for a word?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0148	The word is required in writing or verbally.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0149	No, Mr. President!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0150	The system's here. It's in the system.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0151	Check the transcripts, he doesn't have that request from you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0152	You don't know what you're talking about right now, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0153	Mr. President, he didn't ask you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0154	He entered the system on verbal demand, and I saw his request in the system, and I met his request. You, please take your seat.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0156	He's been running other vice presidents for three weeks, and he's been treating everyone equally, so to what do you owe your bias? Please...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0253par0157	The president's getting even.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0158	You're saying that because I'm neutral, you wouldn't say that if I were biased.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0159	It's not like that! No, give him ten minutes, let him speak, but according to the Civil Code, rule!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0160	I will continue to rule objectively, and despite your provocations, I will continue to rule impartially.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0251par0161	Take the Law of the Civil Law, and the Civil Code will bind you before us!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0254par0162	Mr. President, I'm on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0163	Wait a second... Mr. Yıldırım, look at the Civil Charter, learn this Civil Code. Come and forgive me.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0165	No, we've been listening to other vice presidents here for weeks!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0166	How is the word required? He's in the written or verbal system, he's got a verbal request.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0167	You can't run the House with this much bias.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0168	Okay, if you'll just get into the system from now on, then we'll be in touch.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0169	What, you're not gonna give it to me when I'm in?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0170	Why do you scream so loud when you promise to get into that system?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0171	Are you threatening me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0172	I'm not threatening you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0173	Go ahead, then talk from there!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0256par0174	I'm on the stand, Mr. President... Mr. President, I'm on the stand.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0175	Well, for God's sake, know what you're saying, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0176	You know what you're saying!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0177	Until today...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0178	Look, Mr. President, I'll have a formal discussion! You can't do that!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0248par0179	You can't start a formal debate about this...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0257par0180	Mr. President, the speaker is on the stand. There is no such procedure, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0255par0181	I'll open it. How can I not open it? You're leading it sideways.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0258par0182	The preacher's on the stand, President.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0257par0183	Mr. President, is there such a procedure? The preacher's on the stand. Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0259par0185	Is there a nonverbal way of making promises?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0260par0186	Let's go back to your place... look...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0261par0187	He didn't want any promises! For God's sake!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0260par0188	He's in the system. Mr. Lightning, why don't you understand?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0261par0189	No, if he wants it without teasing, why are you promising him his place, Mr. President?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0260par0190	Please... please, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0261par0191	Your administration smiles a lot, she smiles a lot.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0260par0192	This is all the practice we've ever done, and we're opening it to a member of the group who's been in every system. Why are you so upset?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0262par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0261par0194	You're giving it to me from there and without teasing me? Is there such a thing? Has it ever been implemented in the House?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0260par0195	I gave my word according to 60 things, and when I asked for a word, I gave it without taunting. Here you go, Mr. Mush. Two minutes... Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0263par0199	It's a shame!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0201	Mr. President, this place is run by the Speaker's Court of Parliament, not run by a group's vice president. Everyone act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0263par0203	You tell me, tell me your stories.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0204	You can't work here, you can't be right, you can't be right, you can't be right, you can't be right.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0205	Answer our questions, answer them.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0206	Look, like honey, DHKP-C... before the June 7th election, I heard it, and I've got surveillance here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0207	Say something else, something else.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0208	Look, there's an attack on county and county buildings. The Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, says that the DHKP-C.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0209	You have done it, we know it, you have sent ISIS, you have carried it out.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0210	So, the vice president says that DHKP-C is not the address we expected. They explained their support to us. We thank them.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0211	You sent ISIS there.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0212	What kind of support did they give you?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0213	No one's ever given us...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0214	Financial? Did they become witnesses at the polls?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0215	Explain the ISIS people you sent.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0216	Vote? By bus? Your rallies? What support did they give you? Explain that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0217	Send, send...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0264par0218	Second: Look, it's the general president's party, the PYD, that's got his back on PYD.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0265par0220	It's the same thing!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0266par0221	Have some decency.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0267par0222	The PYD army of heroes, that's what you'll see.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0223	In Rakka, you saw how the DEA and the PYD jointly acted, agreed, and how it brought out the DEAS terrorists. What's that got to do with anything? You know what this looks like?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0269par0226	Tell me how you turn borders, boundaries.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0227	Sounds like a Hursit Külter lie, Hursit Külter.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0270par0228	You tell me about ISIS first, ISIS.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0229	For three months, the government destroyed him. They said, "He came out of the mountain."
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0270par0230	Tell me who you sent to Adana.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0231	So we're going to lie, we're going to try to get up too loud, we're not going to do this, we're going to put the facts out there.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0270par0232	Tell me where you sent ISIS.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0233	Look, for one thing, there's DHKP-C, there's MLKP, there's PKK.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0271par0234	Yeah, answer the thefts.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0235	After that, when you practice law, is there such a law, such a judgment?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0272par0236	Answer the thefts, theft!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0237	It's very clear what I'm saying.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0272par0238	Bribery, bribery! Declare Zarrab, Zarrab!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0268par0239	Anyone who thanks a terrorist organization, a member of the judiciary, a terrorist organization who murdered a prosecutor has no right to stand up and criticize us with the law, and he has no right to do so.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0272par0241	You're a prefabricated citizen. Why don't you answer?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0273par0243	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0274par0244	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0273par0245	He teased our group from the beginning to the end of his speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0274par0246	Here, you have my word for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0273par0249	Now, we have the answer of the terrorist organization ISIS, and the official document, which the Ministry of Economics has given to our party's deputy group leader, Idris Baluken. Tel Abyad ISIS is in possession of Tel Abyad from June 2014 to May 15. He asks: "What is the volume of your trade between Akkale and Tel Abyad? " The Minister of Finance: $7.4 million.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0275par0250	What did you give ISIS, explain?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0273par0251	Trade document with ISIS, business relationship. Go to your Ministry of Economics, ask your Ministry of Economics, what amount of trade did you make for $7.5 million in 11 months between June 2014 and May 2015 based on ISIS? You want a document? That's where the political power-i.D. relationship comes in. And we're used to your style: "Let's stretch out the council." Two, let me warm and reheat sentences that have been given me to avoid questions and criticism of my power. Let me put them back in circulation. We're full. You are responsible for changing the social perception that has arisen whether Zarrab speaks or doesn't speak: you have a government that is struggling with corruption, bribing up to the neck in this period of power. Whether Zarrab speaks or doesn't, you're the proponent of this social perception, and if you want to distribute these dark clouds of bribery, theft, corruption, you have to bring them all to court and open the way for their trial. Otherwise, if Zarrab talks, it's just a declaration of knowledge, nothing else. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0276par0256	Mr. President, according to 60...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0277par0257	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0276par0260	Mr. President, what I'm saying is very clear, and just as the PKK is a terrorist organization, the DEA is also a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0278par0261	Then why did you do the trade? Explain why you did the trade, explain it, explain the trade.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0279par0262	Who did the trade?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0278par0263	Here's the document, here's your answer, what are you saying?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0280par0264	...the DHKP-C is also a terrorist organization, and MLKP is also a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0281par0265	I thought they were going to the Turkmen. Where are they?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0280par0266	Now, there's a government called Syria, where they take the work of Syria, the work of Syria, and they do the work of Syria. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on the other hand, I'm being made to memorize something and I don't come here and say it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0282par0268	You can't get rid of your memory.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0280par0269	I believe, and according to our party, I'm obliged to express what's right here.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0283par0270	You're definitely having an affair with Fetullah.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0280par0271	Look, let's take all your speeches, put them next to each other, they're all the same. God damn those who are close to him and those who are close to him.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0284par0273	We know what you're doing with it. We know what kind of trouble you are.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0285par0274	I'm sure you're having an affair.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0280par0275	You've got PKK, close.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0286par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0287par0277	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0286par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Our talks are not the same because the government, who gave the United States a note to the United States a month ago for concern about its health, today it is slander, confession, a bunch of words that they count and ascribe to themselves that change our agenda.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0288par0281	Not at all, not at all. Don't let God put anyone in this position.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0286par0282	When the Panamanian documents, the Man Island money circulation were discovered, we took the responsibility of pursuing those who stole the people's capital.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0289par0283	You're hoping for help from other countries.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0286par0284	There'll be new agendas, new corruption, new bribery papers, and we'll keep asking for them on behalf of these people. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0289par0287	We've seen a lot of people asking for accounts.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0290par0288	We'll see you, we'll see you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0291par0292	The last talk on behalf of the groups is for Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0292par0295	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in my opinion, and in my interest, it concerns my profession, my expertise, Article 1. A provision is made in the interim Article 72 of the First Amendment, which extends the implementation period to 31/12/2019. What's being extended? The league-based sports include 15 per cent for the top league, 10 per cent for the lower league, a 5 per cent tax for the lower league, and another 5 per cent for the other leagues, and another 5 per cent for the other athletes. The amount that was paid to athletes was described as a fee by 61/6 of the IRS Act. Normally, it's called a fee, when professional athletes are supposed to be taxed at 35 per cent, and we're taxing professionals -- top level -- like football, Super League football players at 15 per cent, that's what it is. So instead of 35 percent, we get 15 percent taxes from football players or basketball players in the Super League, etcetera. This has been going on for a long time, and now we're going to extend it for two more years. So, why are we dragging it out? The friends who offered the law should also come up with a number of these benefits, and we've seen these benefits, and we really support Turkish sports, and we continue to support it. I wish they'd say that. There's no such thing, there's no such thing. So far, we're not sure how much we support Turkish sports, Turkish football, Turkish basketball, but we're doing it by heart again. Dear friends, if we want to support Turkish sports, we have to get the sports law out, we have to get the professional clubs or club law out. There's not much point in continuing this with apps like this, there's almost no point, there's no point. The bidders need to see it, understand it. Our job was to extend some laws in the House or correct the mistakes you've made in the past. We're always either stretching it out or fixing it. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is here, dear friends. That's right, we have to do meaningful things. We need to make good use of the proposals and the plans. There's got to be an analysis of the proposals and the blueprints. ▪ It has provided these benefits, so that further extensions will provide these benefits. There's no such thing, but I'll try to tell you something about it. Now, this is about taxes. Tax is a means of financial policy. As an instrument of finance policy, the tax must be used correctly, and the right job must be done. And when it's used correctly, tax returns the right results, dear friends. This tax policy intervention that we're doing on this issue is right, which results in what, there are questions about it. So no one can say that, yes, it's the right thing to do, our clubs are very useful. We can't say that. Let me put it this way, the First League -- I'm sorry, it's not the First League anymore, we used to call the First League -- do you know how many professional footballers are in the Super League now? About 500 people, that's like a thousand people in the basketball league or something. About half of the football players in the Super League are foreigners. But because foreigners have more gains than Indians, 75 percent and 80 percent gains are granted to foreigners. So by making this change, we're going to be at Talisca, in Beşiktas, in Quaresma, in Fenerbahçe, in...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0293par0300	Van Persie.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0292par0301	...in Valbuena, Galatasaray... we give them advantage, we don't take advantage of our clubs, we don't give our own children advantage.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0294par0302	Who are Galatasaray?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0292par0303	I forgot the football players' names. Unfortunately, we had a team recently -- let's not name -- 11 players are foreigners. Now, we don't know our football players when we're like this. But the support we're bringing in right now is related to these foreigners, which we support. I mean, look at England... the most stable countries in the world right now are Britain, Germany, France, Spain and Italy. In these countries -- I looked at it specifically -- the taxation of professional athletes between 47.5% and 53 percent. We get 15 percent, our clubs are in the middle. We don't do the right thing with our clubs when we don't have a club law, when they're not being properly audited. So this isn't about supporting our clubs, this is about what we're doing. It's less taxing from strangers. As a result, foreigners -- that's 250-something -- only the money taken by the foreign football player in the Super League -- you know -- are now represented by how many million euros or billions of euros. We're supposed to get at least 20 percent, 35 percent, but 15 percent, we're not getting a billion-dollar tax. For what? Not to support Turkish sports, I'm afraid. And football and basketball have been less about sports, more about the theme, more about show-direction activities. It's not a sport. That's what's outweighing it. We don't support amateur sports that much. So we're making some mistakes in the application of tax policy, we're making flaws, dear friends. We need to know the consequences of your actions. Now, tax is a serious issue. You know, in the last few days, the tax is still on the agenda because of the issue of Panama Papers, Malta documents, or Man Island. Why would we go to these tax paradises and start a company? Why would you do that? Because you don't want to pay taxes in your own country, you don't want to pay taxes if you do this; if you start a company in a tax paradise on Man Island, you'll pay zero taxes there -- but you'll pay a price -- or you'll pay 1 percent tax for your activities. You'd be hiding all your activities. You have company partners, you have company, these are hidden, and you launder money, the money you make. It's probably money earned by trading influence through the political-commerce bilateral, which you'd be hiding. My dear friends, we need to do the right thing about tax paradise. If our former Prime Minister and our current Prime Minister's relatives are to be charged with these matters, these matters should be taken seriously. The countries that take taxes seriously are developed countries, institutionalised countries, decent countries, honest countries, ethical and ethical countries. Tax policies are things that need to be taken seriously. Let me tell you something at this hour, like a joke. I think it's King V of France. There is a story attributed to Louis. He's gone, asking what tax should we receive? One queen said, "Let's get a mental tax." Nobody admits they're stupid. Everyone comes voluntarily, pays the tax of reason. I'm exempting you from the tax of reason. Is that all right? Taxes are not taken from all matters, they are not exempted from all matters, they are not exempted from taxes; and if they are brought, they are brought to a single conclusion of what the consequences are, they are made clear, their problems are presented. Right now, Turkey, unfortunately, has a lot of problems with tax paradise, tax policy, my dear friends. The 2018 budget will be on the agenda on Monday. Do you know how much taxes are expected for 2018? 600 billion; 599.6 billion taxes are envisioned, and the actual, direct, indirect part of this is not over 50 billion. We're saying we're going to get 600 billion taxes, 50 billion, look how low a fraction of it is, the tax based directly on the statement, the tax the state can get, the other, unfortunately, the taxes we get from the fuel here and there. This is a matter of great use. I salute you all on this occasion.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0295par0311	Thank you. The first statement on behalf of individuals is from Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0296par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious MPs are going to the general election in 2002, Turkey, the newly established AKP is posting posters on all the walls of Turkey: "The State of Emergency will be lifted." ▪ Democracy and freedom will be ended in all kinds of terms. There will be a disparity and independent judiciary. There will be an end to the conflict and violence. There will be democracy in the country.The AKP President of Turkey will drink the calfing poison and solve the Kurdish problem, etc., etc. and so on and so on. Those were nice words. The State of Emergency was in several provinces at that time. The AKP really removed the State of Emergency from those provinces in 2003. He then ruled the country together with the country until 2013, and then the power struggle, the conflict of interest, and the ropes broke. After that, we were tricked, God and the nation said, "May God forgive us." We arrived at the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, followed by the AKP declaring the State of Emergency throughout Turkey. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, when the State of Emergency was declared, we declare the State of Emergency against the state, not against the nation. Again, Bekir Bozdağ, who was then Minister of Justice, promised that the period of the State of Emergency was three months, and we cleanse the aftereffects of the coup. Our goal is to remove the State of Emergency in a short period of three months. These were good words. And that's what happened? Of course not, Turkey has become a country of bans. So many, so many different bans have been put on the agenda, I'll count some of them: no faith centers of the Aleki. Bankruptcy is prohibited. No theater. No festivals. Freedom of speech and press releases are prohibited. No workers who want to strike. State-of-the-art panels held at universities and especially law schools are prohibited. No open, closed meetings all over the country, no demonstration walks, no tents, no stands. No environmental protection activities allowed. We're not allowed to publish the child abuse report. Forbidden, forbidden, forbidden... in short, the country has returned to a land of bans. Just bans? Of course not, it also turned into an export country, Turkey, exported 152,000 public staff. 4,302 judges and prosecutors, 5,717 academics, 6,470 soldiers, 3,106 gendarmes, 22,984 police officers, 33,138 teachers have been expelled and the contract of 21,000 teachers has been annulled. Is it over? It's not over. Of course it wasn't going to end because the AKP also built a totalitarian regime with no democracy and Turkey turned it into a big prison. 13 HDP MPs, including our co-Chair, and 1 CHP MP have been arrested. 5 HDP MPs have been demoted. Ninety-five of the co-chairs of 103 HDP municipalities have been relieved of duty and the trustee of the AKP (AKP) has been appointed in their place. Tens of thousands of citizens were illegally imprisoned in prisons. Our party's periodic political genocide operations against HDP and opposition political parties continued and continue. The judiciary surrendered to the palace, the impartial and independent judiciary was over, and the age of custody and instruction began. 120 journalists were arrested, 800 journalists fired. Dozens of newspapers, news agencies, radio, magazines, and televisions have been turned off. Women's murders and work killings have increased by 100 percent. Unemployment has risen. One out of five young people are unemployed. There was an army of unemployed graduates. 46 hospitals, five medical schools closed. After all, a conflicting process has begun with neighbouring countries. The Kurdish phobia and the Kurds should not see their mother. All Kurds have been declared enemies through their understanding. The Neoosman dreams, which began with the process of Tunisia, Libya, Syria, Algeria and Egypt, were buried in Sochi, and again returned to the point of my brother Assad. In short, the AKP left a heavy balance sheet at the end of the fifteen years; the democratic, legitimate political floor was destroyed; the people's hope was exhausted, democracy suffered a severe wound, while media and freedom of expression, especially freedom of expression, was put under the influence of fundamental rights and freedoms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the beginning it does not last for three months. The State of Emergency, which is called "The State of Emergency," is now being carried out by only one person in accordance with the decree of the law; a fifteen-year summary report card of the AKP (AKP). I pay my respects.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0297par0327	Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0298par0328	Mr. President, from my position, according to 60...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0297par0329	Here you are, Mr. Mush, according to 60.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0298par0332	Mr. President, as an EC PARTY, we take authority from the nation, and we use it without sharing it or sharing it with anyone. We never shared or shared the authority to rule the country with an organization or a structure or any other element. Turkey's governing system is a republic and democracy, not an authoritarian regime. When the time comes, the elections are transparent in Turkey. The state of the Republic of Turkey considers Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) an enemy, and is fighting relentlessly against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Kurds are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Just as 80 million are all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, there are many elements in it, Kurds are equal rights and citizens of this country, as are other elements. We can never agree that operations against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) should be made to look as if they were being conducted against Kurds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish my vows.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0299par0337	And ye burned Ataman the gift, and Ataman the gift. Did you know that a 37-year-old poor woman was burned alive?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0300par0338	Please complete, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0298par0339	As I said, operations will be carried out in the PKK, and they will continue to be carried out after that, but it is never something we would agree to by trying to create such a perception, to say it to the Kurds as if it were being done to them. A Kurdish citizen has the same right as I have in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0300par0341	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0301par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. All those parties who are political under the roof of Parliament take power from the nation in the same way, and the nation chooses them. According to the political government, citizens are divided into two, regardless of Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Sunni, and property -- one, those who support power without account, and one, those who are persecuted for criticizing the wrongs of power. This becomes an academic, becomes a press member, becomes a student, becomes a laborer, becomes a Kurdish, becomes a Turk, becomes a Sunni, becomes a Sunni, whatever; I say citizens who are impatient with criticism and opposition are the disadvantaged citizens of this country, especially in the last two years. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0302par0347	Thank you. The second and final word on their behalf now belongs to Konya MP Leyla Şahin Usta. Here you are, Mr. Hawkmaster.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0303par0354	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to make changes to some Laws in 506 rows on behalf of myself. Yeah, we're doing a good thing with this law, starting a new university, starting Lokman Medical University. As a member of the National Board of Education, obviously... And I'm also proud and honored to have given such a speech on December 5th because I'm a person who was kicked out of college years ago, and now I'm proud and honored to be a person who supports this law at the starting point (Applause from the AK PARTY desks) as well as to have earned the right to speak from this bench.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0304par0357	In the meantime, tell me how many lecturers you've thrown out.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0305par0358	The peace academics had a case today. You have cast out Abraham Kaboğlu, and you have appointed Abraham Kaboğlu.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0303par0359	We, the AK PARTY, have opened the way for all kinds of freedoms, from the day we came to power, without saying men, men, children...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0305par0360	You've thrown out thousands of academics, you're still talking.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0303par0361	...we've always developed these policies, believing that everyone is equal and has the same law. Yeah, we've changed a lot in this country before, from science, from science, from the way people dress and dress, from the universities that they kick out of college, we've improved, we've built new universities, we've increased our numbers, we'll continue to increase our numbers. If we didn't increase it, why didn't we increase it? Why would we criticize it again? Why do we increase it? You say, "Why do you increase it?" Again, we criticize it. We're in power, we're responsible. We are in charge of serving this country. We are people in this country who are obliged to make all kinds of innovations and changes that will respond to the demands of young people who want to study at higher education. And of course, we will be proud and proud of the work we've done on this subject. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] December 5th is the 83rd anniversary of the right to be elected and elected. But look, not only were the headscarfs removed from the universities, but in this House during February 28th...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0306par0365	Is there any other world country that's firing 5,000 professors?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0307par0366	Why? So he supported terrorism because they were terrorists.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0308par0367	Back in the day, they called you terrorists.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0309par0368	Please, let's not interfere, members of lawmakers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0369	...a woman who was chosen by the will of the nation was also expelled from this House because she had a headscarf. Turkey has changed a lot; Turkey is walking on the trail of a government that is on its way to serve, on the contrary. That's why people trust us and vote for us. No matter how much you try to frame us with lies, slanders, false documents, false documents, it's nothing. You only comfort yourselves with it and keep yourselves busy and humiliate yourselves. If these people didn't trust us, they wouldn't have voted for us. We've been in power for fifteen years, and from now on, hopefully, we'll seek power. We are a government that has proven ourselves by our service to this day. The heart would want you to support every law we make. Stop putting this nation's stand on the stand of terrorists.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0311par0372	Oh, shame, shame! What kind of talk is that? Shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0373	Come, say what you've done for this country, for the young of this country, give us one example, and we'll applaud you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0312par0374	What he did to you yesterday, you're doing to others today.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0375	I wish you could show me one thing you've done for the women of this country. We're doing it, and we're gonna keep doing it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's the AK PARTY power that saves this country from all kinds of custody, junta, media bosses, don't forget that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0313par0378	You've got it all tied up, of course. You've got it all tied up.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0379	Today, if the opposition is free to express itself...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0313par0380	What opposition, what opposition, what opposition?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0314par0381	You're talking!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0382	If he speaks his own opinion and defends it, he owes it to the AK PARTY, so don't forget it. You're talking today because of the people you call dictators, and you're here today in this House, so please don't forget that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0313par0384	We took the right to speak from the people, not from the dictator.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0385	I will continue to serve this country with great pride and honor, along with all the innovations we've done in many areas, as I've been given the opportunity to take advantage of our elderly day-care homes, which will be implemented within the law clause of our newly established university. Even if you stop it, we'll keep working.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0315par0387	If you're here, you're here because of the person you curse, because of the person you call a drunk.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0310par0388	We, like you, will continue with the trust of this nation, as a government that unites and protects the rights and the law of all. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0316par0391	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0317par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. The president said a lot of things by returning to our orator group, but I won't take any promises without picking on him. I was an academic on February 28th, and I've been investigated for signing the headscarf for students. But we're sad to see that the oppressed of the past era have become the oppressors of today. What is it? A congressman was expelled from the Parliament because he had a headscarf in 1999. Because some lawmakers differ from power and do politics, 10 members of this country are inside, 10 members of those Assembly. What are we doing for the women of this country? While no party's parliamentary seats in this country have reached 20 per cent, we are a 40 per cent female party. I say, however, that power is particularly busy delegating our female surrogates. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0318par0402	Now we're going to do the QA in 15 minutes. I'll use half as a question and half as an answer. Yes, Mr. Kayan, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0319par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a 30km road between Lüleburgaz and Pınarhisar, which belongs to the Highways and crosses five villages. Here all the loads of Pınarhisar Cement and another cement factory and two cement factories are carried this way. It still runs through villages. And because it goes through villages, it does enormous damage to either the buildings in the villages or to individuals. This needs to be prevented and taken to the freeway as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0320par0407	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0321par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Minister, it's December 5th, the anniversary of the day we won the right to choose and be elected as women. As elected women's MP, I am grateful once again to the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has led the right to be elected before many countries in the world, and to convey my respect and thanks before the General Assembly. In this bill, Mr. Secretary, is the establishment of a foundation university. We've brought this up in a lot of our talks -- the immune structures of foundation universities, the special incentives, and the growing resources that have been going on lately. But the tuition is especially high when we really look at the economic conditions of our country.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0322par0412	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0323par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there has been a shift in farmers' agricultural loan co-ops and their debt to the Agriculture Bank, but this includes farmers who are included in the Farmer's Recording System and who are insured in TARSIM, while because of seasonal problems, there are many farmers who are victims of droughts, frosts and so on. Because these farmers did not insure the Farmers' Recording System or TARSIM, they are also suffering the loss. Unfortunately, this new arrangement does not include them. Since the farmer's victimhood is documented and problems have been detected, will there be a transfer in debt for them? Will such improvement be taken into account during the harvest period? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0324par0416	Now it's your turn, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0325par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this is a document issued to the Iranian bank and individuals who were married to the artist Ebru Günş Sarraf. Do you know about this or not? Why didn't the Prime Minister take precautions, today we're dealing with Reza Sarraf? The government is troubled; the name of theft, corruption has become the secret of the national state. What's this about? Can you give us any information on this document? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0326par0421	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0327par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the National Ministry of Education Guidance Service regulations, which organises procedures and requirements for the duties, powers and responsibilities of the staff in the institutions, has been published in the Official Gazette. With this regulation, even non-teachers are meant to be counselors. We believe that regulations will have devastating consequences not only in the education system but also for students and educational workers, which is what NGOs, unions, are thinking about, and they're suing for it. The rape incident at Ensar Foundation's home, while the fire disaster in Aladağ Home has not yet healed the wounds, we believe that such regulations will open the way for those who do not have pedagogic formation to function under the name of the schools and the members of the congregations. Is your conscience clear about this regulation, or does it not bother you? Do you intend to cancel this regulation that opens schools to everyone but the teachers? What measures do you intend to take against their caution? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0328par0425	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0329par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, today at universities, 5,644 academics have been terminated. Of these, the academics are peacemakers. Is there such an example in the world? Is there a world example of them being suspended from their universities for signing a peace declaration without any administrative and legal investigation? For example, Edward W. Said, do you know, for example, the case of De Gaulle and Jean-Paul Sartre? How do you assess the expulsion of these academics today when we cannot find qualified professors at our universities today, when the number is increasing daily, and today more than 25 per cent of our college graduates are out of work? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0330par0429	Mr. Gökdağ...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0331par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. He said $30 billion was spent on the Syrians. This money is collected by the tax of our poor people, the tax of workers, peasants, pensioners, employees who don't work. Our president insists on where this money is being spent. The President insists that he refrains from responding. It's Turkey's right to know the answer, all our citizens' rights. Why can't you answer that? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0332par0433	Mr. Özdemir, next time it's your turn, it's unfinished. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0333par0435	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Minister, I'd like to ask you the following questions about the increase in the resources of the foundation universities and the high monitoring of their student fees: Is there an arrangement for the status of these foundation universities to change into private university status? And about their fees, you know, the Council of Ministers each year determines the student fees of state universities, determines the rate of increase. But could such an increase for the foundation universities be prevented from viewing these student fees at a very high level by comparing them to public universities? Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0334par0438	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I'll leave the word to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0441	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Kayan. Mr. Kayan has a demand that two cement factories in Lüleburgaz have damaged villages to carry their cargo, so this place will be brought back to an environmental road. I'll pass this on to the Minister of Transport, saying he's also subject to the Roads network -- the construction of the circuit roads is still within the scope of the Department of Transport, the Department of Transport. Mr. Özdemir..... can the fees of the colleges be made into high, private universities?......... We've announced that we're going to start private universities in both our government and our election statement, but there is a constitutional obligation, a constitutional amendment is required. If the Republican People's Party really supports the establishment of these private universities, we're prepared to propose a constitutional amendment. You know, as a government, we want to ensure as many opportunities as possible in education. What is this equal opportunity? We're giving you free books. What is this equal opportunity? We're carrying it for free. What is this equal opportunity? And in the homes, We provide means. What is this equal opportunity? We provide scholarships to orphaned children, to nearly 200,000 of our people, not our Ministry, not the Credit Homes. Again, you know we've removed the tuition for college students. Again, we support those who go to private schools by the head, so that private schools can live and...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0336par0445	The fees haven't been lifted. They've been postponed, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0446	No, sir, no, we've removed the tuition. If they stay overnight or in bilateral training for a period of time, then so be it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0336par0447	We put it off, we didn't pick it up.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0448	No, tuition is definitely not available at the moment. Therefore, we support the establishment of private universities. If there's an offer from the Republican People's Party in this direction, we'll support it very clearly. Another issue is the farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank. The Agricultural Bank, even though it's not insured and it's the seasonal conditions, both because of the drought and the frost, but somehow it's the same thing in Sivas. In Sivas, they actually put one on the report in the Kangal, the other on Gemerek, because of the frosting and the drought. So they also have demands to be met, and we deliver the same demands to our Ministry of Agriculture. In the end, however, Turkey's ability to afford these damages is a bit of a resource business, a little bit of a budget job. Thus, Turkey supports agriculture as much as it can afford, as well as the harms of our farmers against such natural events. Every year we postpone, every year we postpone as long as possible, as long as the budget allows. Another thing Mr. Tanal said was about Reza Zarhrab, and in 2013, there was a document that MIT had sent to the Prime Minister. This is information that someone transferred money from Iran to China and Dubai through the banking system, so it's called a precautionary measure. I agree, the state must take precautions, I agree, but my request is that Zarrab, you know, when he was in prison, his conversations were last deciphered, and the lawyers backed him up. Zarrab says: "I can tell all kinds of lies to get out of here. " They gave me lawyers. So, please, don't put everything Zarrab has to say in the same way as a successful businessman, it's the first sentence.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0337par0452	Why did you give him a medal?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0453	Now, after yesterday's lawyers filed a petition against Zarrab, the U.S. court removed these records, deleted the records from the prison, and I'm saying as much as I've been following the press. So I'm going to find a loophole from his new speech and then I'm going to go back to him...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0337par0454	Why did you give him a medal, Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0455	Zarrab is now being used by the United States, see, not against the AK PARTY, not against our politicians, but against Turkey.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0337par0456	I get it. Why did you give him a medal?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0457	Therefore, we need a national stance here, regardless of the party's distinction, and I'm making it very clear.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0337par0459	Minister, why did you give this a medal? Why?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0460	Another thing, what Mr. Hurriyet said, is that we've drawn up the code of reference.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0337par0461	Minister, look, do you see the medal? Your Minister gave it to you, did my father give it to you?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0462	You said so yourself, there's a lawsuit. I pledge that whatever decision is made in this case -- right or wrong, good or bad -- we will comply with anything that comes out about stopping the execution of substances or canceling certain substances. Do I feel comfortable with this regulation? I'm the one who signed for you, I'm the one who sent you to the PM, so I wouldn't send you into me if it didn't feel right. Another thing was dismissed from university professors, and there is no document on them, there is no law on them, so just because of a statement... we say for him: We have carried out the object mechanisms against the procedures of the state of emergency.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0338par0464	What mechanism is there, Minister?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0465	Yeah, yeah. Look, as a lawyer... believe me, I'm not saying this to be political or rhetorical. I've been a lot of lawyers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0338par0467	Where can they apply?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0468	Everyone, obviously... why? Don't say that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0338par0469	But there isn't.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0470	The law is delayed, but it'll always find its place.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0339par0471	That's right.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0472	He'll be late, but he'll find his place. So look, there's a commission...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0340par0473	Late justice is not justice.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0474	And look, just now -- I'm following you again from the press -- Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, the president of the HDP, was acquitted of a case, wasn't he? I mean, I've been following the press again, and you've been... well, as you can see, there have been cases where no one's ever been acquitted. I assume he's been acquitted in a second case? It's like two.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0341par0475	70.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0476	So here's my general principle...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0342par0477	Does that mean your law is working?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0478	I mean, justice will be delayed, but it'll be done, just a little patience.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0343par0479	It was a very ordinary case, a very ordinary case.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0480	And Mr. Gökdağ is said to have spent $30 billion on the Syrian people at work, and we've never been told where it was spent. There must have been a press conference with Deputy Prime Minister Recep Akdağ, who was responsible for our AFAD. Thus, at this press conference, detailed information on where each was spent. There's no secret to it. Well, according to the international criteria, if you've assigned a container town here, you could rent it somewhere else. You guys put paramedics in here, you put an instructor in here, every one of them... so that's what happens when you do the math. Thus, with Turkey, it should be proud to open its door to people who are crossing it, finding sure of another country while its own home is really on fire, while its own country is on fire. If you speak of this nation, its rights, its law, its tax, its rights, its rights, and if you speak of it, believe me, it is not right.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0344par0481	Minister, where did you spend it?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0482	Look, this isn't right. We're human beings first. Look, leave the I.D. aside, Syrian, Turkish, Iranian, Caucasian, Balkan, release. A human being has been here. Will this person have health care? It will be. Will this human be a training service? It will be. We'll bring whatever human service this person has...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0344par0483	Minister, that's not what I'm asking.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0484	Here's what we've done.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0344par0485	Madam Secretary, if I may? Why did you spend it? We don't ask, where did you spend it? 30 billion dollars, 120 quadrillion...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0335par0486	Well, okay. It's all there. Look, I'm telling Mr. Recep Akdağ how much of this 30 billion dollars went to health, how much went to education, to the settlement... look, we're building container cities, building tent cities, here, we're giving them school supplies, we're hiring teachers to teach them in Turkish. So, he takes them out as one pen, and I think he explained them to you at the press conference, but in writing, I'll make sure he tells you that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0345par0488	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0346par0490	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0347par0491	Mr. Minister, in my district, Turkey is the largest Syrian residence in Gaziantep.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0348par0492	Five hundred thousand or five hundred thousand?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0347par0493	In Gaziantep, let's go and see what happened to the Syrian people who claimed to have spent 120 quadrillion, all of them miserable together.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0349par0494	Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Ozkoc has entered the system. Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0350par0496	Look at Europe, when they can't share a thousand people, when they don't know what they're going to do, Turkey is providing the best possible service to three million people who have taken refuge, and look, I attended the last meeting of UNESCO. With the president of UNESCO, the entire UNESCO...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0349par0497	Minister, I have promised Mr. Ozkoc, let him speak, if necessary...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0350par0498	The last sentence... If there is only one country that has fulfilled its human responsibilities as a state against the people who are sheltering in UNESCO members, Turkey is the only one who accepts it, the world accepts it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0351par0501	Yeah, we have no objection to that.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0352par0502	No corruption.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0353par0503	Where's the money, the money? Where's 30 billion?
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0354par0504	I'm asking you something else.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0355par0505	Therefore, there should have been three members of UNESCO in Europe. One of them was Portugal, another one was Finland, but Germany was an island like us, Germany couldn't be elected, Turkey was chosen.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0356par0506	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0355par0508	So I think there's a response to the work Turkey has done in front of the international community. Thank you.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0356par0510	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0357par0514	I didn't want to interrupt the Minister. Minister, I'm really looking at it. You held the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey for six years with the secret testimony of Şemdin Sakık, the number-one prisoner of the PKK. On that day, the generals and officers you appointed made a coup attempt, 250 martyrs. This is your ruling. Here, in the General Assembly, it's so comfortable that justice will find its place. You say the word, and I look at you astounded. Let alone six years, I wonder if you would still have that smile on your face if you'd ever been thrown into that cell with the secret testimony of a millita, where the sewer pits were.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0358par0516	Then why are you defending December 17th or 25th? Same prosecutors, same judges...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0357par0517	Mr. Secretary, are you with the Fetullah terrorist organization...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0359par0519	Mr. Ozkoch, please complete.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0357par0520	I'll finish it. While you're arm-in-arms with the Fetullah terrorist organization and you're arm-in-arms with the Fetullah terrorist group, while Bank's opening of Asia, while Fetullah's aiding the terrorist organization's schools, the entire opposition here is not true. You're aiding a terrorist organization. They called them all traitors. Now, really, without any blush on your face...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0360par0522	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0361par0523	Please, Mr. Ozkoch, let's be careful with our sentences.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0357par0524	Please. ...as part of the government that fought side-by-side with the Fetullah Gulen organization, justice comes, but it's too late to say that thousands of academics, thousands of teachers, thousands of turbans... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0362par0528	Complete, please.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0357par0529	I wonder how you find this comfort when you're dragging thousands of innocents into prisons. My last word to you, Mr. Secretary, is that justice is late, but one day when justice comes to light for you, this nation will suffer an oh. I want to see your face then.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0363par0531	It's not justice that's late.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0364par0532	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0365par0533	Mr. President...
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0366par0534	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0365par0535	But you'd better give me a collective answer, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0367par0536	Mr. President, there's no such procedure, no questions, no answers.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0366par0537	Come in, Mr. Secretary, we're listening.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0368par0539	Mr. President, I'm telling you, when we say, "Let's get rid of the judges of the land." When we say, "Let's get a law out, we'll go to the Constitutional Court right away before it's published in the Official Gazette."
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0369par0541	You are in violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0368par0542	After a coup, after a coup, the head of this terrorist organization will form a union, you will build a bank like this, you will support the bank like this, you will become a member of the union. When the government says that it is the first reflex of a terrorist attack, let's cut off its ties with the state, and let's cut off all the people who put money in the bank to support it. When he says, it looks like he's taking care of them, and he knows who's defending them after the world knows they're terrorists. I mean, have a heart! Look what you've done, and after that... people know, don't doubt it.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0370par0543	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0368par0544	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit05spe0370par0545	I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2017-12-05sit06spe0370par0001	I open the Sixth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 506. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 457, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 385, which is ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made, on Wednesday (December 6th 2017), at 14 p.m. on Wednesday (December 2017) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
