ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda... [[Rumors]] Quiet. We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Mrs Esther Capella i Farré, I ask Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u2	For the freedom of the press and exiles, for the Catalan Republic, for the legal empire, yes, I promise. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u3	In place of Doña Teresa Jordà and Roura, I ask Don Joan Margall Sastre if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u4	For the freedom of the press and exiles, for the Catalan Republic, for the legal empire, yes, I promise. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u5	Doña Carolina Telechea i Lozano and Don Joan Margall Sastre have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u6	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Andalusia on the transfer of resources of 19,99 cubic hectometers from the Hydrographic Demarcation of the Red, Odiel and Stone rivers to the Hydrographic Demarcation of Guadalquivir. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of Andalusia, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom we welcome. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. For the presentation of this initiative, Mr Julio Jesús Díaz Robledo has the floor in the first place. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent so that we can listen to the speaker. [[Rumors]] Until there's no silence, you won't be able to start. Go ahead, Mr. Díaz Robledo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Leonardo da Vinci said that water is the driving force that moves all of nature, and with that we can certainly agree. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today I want to talk to you about water and also about life. Today, on behalf of the Parliament of Andalusia, I have come to present what, for a large majority of the Andalusian House, is a solution of the possible - of course, it is not the panacea - that wants to guarantee the future of Doñana and of human activity and agriculture in the area. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the water reaches the surface of El Condado will mean, on the one hand, the closure of the wells there and the natural filling of the 27th aquifer, that aquifer that nourishes water - and therefore life and wealth - to the world heritage that we treasure in Spain: Doñana; on the other hand, it will also provide water security to the activity in the area. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who live there know that Donana has always faced and will face challenges, and now we need to know how to combine the challenge of preserving this world-wide protected habitat with the coexistence of human activity in the same ecosystem. Ladies and gentlemen, water is certainly wealth; it is vital in the fight against climate change and also desertification. Doñana brings us a heritage of all and a protected natural wealth, recognized and awarded worldwide. It generates employment, research and wealth as well. Agriculture, in turn, brings employment and a fixed population to the territory. Therefore, in order to combat depopulation, we need an agricultural activity that respects the environment and also human health, a responsible agriculture with a rational and efficient use of water. Ladies and gentlemen, this normative text, this proposal for a law, reflects that there is solidarity and agreement between the assigning and receiving basin, ensures compliance with all existing regulations and guarantees the protection and conservation of the resource and its environment, the proper uses and ecological flows of the assigning basin, prohibiting the allocation of resources to urban development, new irrigation or illegal irrigation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is fundamental. It is therefore a solution which has always sought agreement and consensus and which has broad support in the Andalusian Parliament and on the part of the actors concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I ask you here today, on behalf of the Parliament of Andalusia, only two things. The first is that they take this legislative text into consideration and that they improve it, if they see fit, in their parliamentary proceedings; it is certainly possible to do so. The second is that you always bear in mind that our work is inextricably linked to solving the problems of the citizens and that doing so means transforming problems and difficulties into opportunities for the region and singularly - and this is very important - for Doñana. In conclusion, I said at the beginning of my intervention that water is the motor of everything, which is life. In our hands it is that this surface water helps us to preserve a unique space, as is Doñana, as well as provide us with the water security that human activity needs - and, singularly, the agricultural one - in the region. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we will find a way to make this possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u8	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Manuel Andrés González Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet the farmers in the area of Doñana, El Condado Onubense, who are accompanying us this afternoon in this parliamentary debate. As you can understand, it is an immense honor that my first intervention in the Congress of Deputies is to defend Huelva, and in particular our farmers, who are the true architects of our prime agriculture being ambassador of the Spanish brand throughout the world. And I want to highlight the farmers in Huelva, especially now that they are having a very bad time because there are political representatives, without going any further in this very House... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u10	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u11	... who do not know the Onubense camp and who are committed to generalizing isolated complaints that in no case are representative of the sector we defend. Having said that, it is, as I said, an honor for me to come to the place where the sovereignty of the Spanish people resides to claim a vital infrastructure for my province, the second transfer to El Condado; a second transfer of 15 cubic hectometres, which needs a law to be put into effect and which therefore needs the support of this House. The previous government of the People's Party has already carried out the first transfer to El Condado of 4.99 cubic metres during the last legislature, a claim that for decades the Onubense farmers maintained and that was never decisively supported until 2011, when the government of Mariano Rajoy gave the definitive back to this vital work for the Onubense agriculture. Since then, more than 200 million euros in just six years have arrived in the province of Huelva to boost and realize the hydraulic works that my province demanded and that have allowed, and of course continue to allow, the definitive take-off of this agricultural sector; an unprecedented investment and that with all merit has turned the government of Mariano Rajoy into the government of water in the province of Huelva. Today we are here to demand a second transfer, the definitive solution for the Onubense field and for our red fruits to remain a fundamental engine of our economy and a pillar of employment for Huelva. That is why we ask the new Government not to stop the water train for Huelva; a change of Government cannot assume that the key to the passage of such a necessary water will be closed. And I say this because in recent months we have listened to the now President of the Government of Spain's bet on the desalination of transfers. Mr Sánchez's words generate an uncertainty that now surrounds the future of a transfer that was already initiated by the former People's Party government. The Ministry of the Environment has been working on this for a long time and we already have the sectoral technical reports that say that this transfer is possible and feasible. Therefore, it is time for us all to push in the same direction and show loyalty to rule. They are more than thirty years of historical demand for the province of Huelva; hence the need to continue to bet, as the previous People's Party government has been doing, on the development of sustainable agriculture based among other elements on investments in the irrigation and innovation sector. In the province of Huelva the arrival of surface water is vital to relieve the Doñana aquifer and to give legal certainty to our farmers. Therefore, it is time to continue. This transfer is good for agriculture, but it also serves to protect Doñana and to protect the environment. Our farmers, Huelva farmers, have shown that they are the first to preserve our environment, to protect Doñana and to protect its aquifer. Farmers have suffered criticism from some, unfair competition from others, and indifference from some governments, mainly socialists. It is therefore time to do justice to a model and decisive sector for the Onubese economy. The farmers of Huelva hope that today we will agree and carry forward a transfer that is necessary, that is respectful of the environment and that, above all, is fair for the province of Huelva. I do not want to conclude my speech without first thanking Fatima Báñez, who has been the true valour of agriculture and farmers in the province of Huelva in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u12	Thank you very much. He now has the word Don Francisco Jesús Fernández Ferrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. With your permission, I would also like to convey a greeting to the municipal representatives, to the mayors of Moguer, Rociana, Lucena del Puerto, Bonares, to the mayor of Almonte, to the president of the Provincial Council of Huelva, to the councillor of Environment and Ordination of the Territory of the Andalusian Junta and to the farmers of Huelva who accompany us today, who come from the county of El Condado, where the arrival of water is hope and life, both for the recovery of ecosystems and for agriculture in Doñana. I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the Andalusian Parliament, the proposing group of this initiative. Our intention is to send you this bill for consideration and subsequent processing and approval of the water transfer of 19.9 cubic hectares from the Red and Stone Hydrographic Demarcation to the Guadalquivir watershed. It is a bill prepared by the Council for the Environment and Planning of the Territory, promoted by the Parliament of Andalusia and endorsed by the groups of Citizens, People's Party and PSOE of Andalusia, whose purpose is to restore the water balance in the aquifer of the natural space of Doñana. It is a transfer of water considered to be smaller between two hydrographic demarcations in the same province, the assigning part, that of Tinto and the Stone, managed by the Junta de Andalucía, and the receiving part, that of Guadalquivir, managed by the State. This transfer has as its fundamental axis the sustainability of resources in a space that has been and must continue to be compatible with the protection of ecosystems, with the population living in the region and with the economic activity that is taking place in it. Ladies and gentlemen, believe us when we ensure that the greatest guarantee in the preservation, conservation and protection of the natural space of Doñana are the families who live there. We are aware that we have in our territory the greatest and most important ecological value, and not only of the province of Huelva, not only of Andalusia or Spain, but of Europe, to which, in addition to maintaining, we want to improve. The political action of the Andalusian Board through the Ministry of Environment and Planning of the Territory is to work multidisciplinaryly on the recovery of the Doñana aquifer. It is worth highlighting as a tool of consensus between administrations - state, autonomous and local, on the one hand, and agrarian and ecological organizations on the other - the Special Plan for the management of irrigation areas located north of the forest crown of Doñana. This plan, which improves the control and distribution of water extractions from the aquifer, directly affects the protection of natural, environmental and socio-economic values through the management of agricultural space. The processing of this bill, initiated by the Parliament of Andalusia at the initiative of the Socialist Group for its debate in the General Courts, is the solution to avoid the consumption of groundwater through the use of surface water; to recharge the aquifer; to recover the ecosystems in Doñana; to respond to thousands of families who have established their residence in the region; to create employment; to promote an agricultural, ecological and sustainable model that only occurs in Huelva and supplies the whole of Europe. The agricultural sector places more emphasis on the protection and conservation of the natural environment of Doñana, thus guaranteeing a plus in the agricultural production that makes the Doñana brand unique. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, that with this bill we are guaranteeing the health of the natural space, where the two hydrological plans - the assigning basin, Tinto, Odiel and Piedras, and the receiving basin, Guadalquivir - contemplate the forecast of this intraprovincial transfer; a forecast approved by the Andalusian Junta and the Government of Spain. These hydrological plans have also been transferred to the European Union for the implementation of Community mandates under the Water Framework Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. I ask you to look at Huelva province. Come visit us; accompany our representatives of the municipalities that make up the county of El Condado, will be pleased to show you the potential and possibilities of the area. Ladies and gentlemen, the province of Huelva is lacking commitments that will actually become reality. It is eight years of continuous abandonment that we have been suffering. They support this bill that seeks the conservation, protection and recovery of the Doñana aquifer, which supports an important biodiversity associated with a rich ecosystem. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor in the position-setting round by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Andalusian Parliament, to the proposal you have put forward on the transfer of water resources of 19,99 cubic metres, from the Hydrographic Demarcation of the Red, Odiel and Stones rivers to the Hydrographic Demarcation of the Guadalquivir, I say to you that we cannot support it. From our group we have always been very critical of the policies of transvasion between basins for essentially agrarian uses. We can come to understand the need for exceptional and timely contributions to ensure mouth water in extreme cases, but not to whitewash management errors and poor agrarian planning that perpetuate supply policies and promote overexploitation of water resources. We should learn from the failure to apply this same model of transfer to other points in the geography of the State. For example, it has occurred in Daimiel and, on a large scale, with the transfer of the Tagus-Segura. We have examples that this model does not work; a model that responds primarily to the sectoral demands of intensive irrigation agriculture precisely, without taking into account the disastrous consequences of overexploitation of the medium itself in the medium term. Bread for today, hunger for tomorrow, in many cases. According to the project, this authorization will supply water to crops planted in the northern crown of Doñana and thus stop extracting these same resources from the aquifer. In addition to the 4.9 cubic metres already authorized, which allow the closure of more than 400 underground wells, the sector seeks to complete the water needs of the 9340 hectares recognized in the Plan de rigadios, which is ordered along 64,000 hectares through the municipalities of Almonte, Rociana, Moguer, Bonares and Lucena del Puerto. In fact, the main objective of this proposal is not the preservation of the Doñana aquifer, although it may seem so; it is the justification for a plan for the viability of new irrigations which seeks to amnestize those new farms which, unlawfully and irregularly, have broken down in recent years without any kind of control. They are precisely the main cause of overexploitation of the Doñana aquifer, and instead of penalizing such irregular practices it is intended to normalize this fact; the practice of consummated facts. The solution would be to tackle the problem face-to-face with all its complexity and remedy the poor planning of water demand management. First of all close and eliminate all illegal wells and crops; adapt agricultural demands to Doñana's load capacity, and look for alternatives and comprehensive management models that guarantee a sustainable model of rural development based on their own real capacities, and not models of speculation doomed to failure, as we have said. I repeat, with proposals of this kind, all we do is perpetuate an erroneous model of hydrological management based on the demand for unlimited growth of irrigation, which is above the real capacities of the basin itself. It's a real irresponsibility. On the one hand, we normalize and legitimize unfortunate agrarian planning and poor hydrological management. On the other hand, we generate false expectations about a model that will irremediably end in failure and that will accentuate, precisely, social conflictivity. Otherwise, time to time. Finally, the water pressure on the yielding basin increases, hypothecating the very development capacities of the yielding territories. Precisely - and I am finishing - in the subcommission for the study and elaboration of water policy proposals in line with the challenges of climate change, one of the points present in different appearances was that climate change will have a very important impact on the quantities of water resources in the south-eastern peninsula, to the point that in some appearance it was pointed out that it would be very difficult not only to expand new irrigations, but also to maintain those that are now. Therefore, in this sense from Esquerra Republicana we believe that what is needed is more courage to try to face the challenges that are coming upon us and not to persist in the same model of agricultural policies and water management, model that everyone has seen as a failure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u16	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by welcoming my group to the Andalusian parliamentarians who have come to present this initiative to us today, as well as to the President of the Huelva Parliament, the mayors and the farmers who are accompanying us today from the rostrum. Welcome, everyone. [[Applauds]] Little can be added to what has already been said regarding the need for this transfer of water resources in a province that has three hydrographic demarcations, one of which, that of Guadalquivir, is deficient, a need that is threefold. There is a need for supply, to ensure the water supply of the towns of El Condado de Huelva; there is a need to protect the environment of Doñana, to ensure the balance of its aquifers, overexploited today, and of its ecosystem, and there is a need of a social nature that has to do with thousands of jobs. So, in the face of such obvious needs, such palatable and urgent, one might wonder why so much has been debated so far and so little has been done. A non-legislative proposal was adopted in the Environment Committee of the Andalusian Parliament; the initiative presented to us today was discussed and also approved in the Andalusian Parliament, but in this House it has also been discussed twice in this legislature, in the Congressional Committee on Agriculture, first, a non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group, which was adopted in March 2017 with the abstention of the People's Group, and a few months later, in October, the same initiative was presented practically, but this time by the People's Group. So the answer to why this question has been debated so much is clear: you are hostages of bipartisanism, you are hostages that the People's Party and the Socialist Party are unable to agree to solve the problems of the Spaniards. [[applause]] They have already seen it and are going to see it again today: they agree in the background, in the need to guarantee surface water so that resources, underground aquifers, do not continue to be eroded, but they prefer to follow in what one has done and in what the other has stopped doing, or in whom this law sets out in a political game of which you are the victims. As for the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, who voted against in the Andalusian Parliament, and the ladies and gentlemen of the United Left, who abstained, we shall see whether the latter vote today as their colleagues in Andalusia or if they bow to the discipline of voting, now that Mr Echenique's authority in Andalusia is so questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, we can agree with you that this is a patch, that this law is not going to solve by itself the overexploitation of the Doñana aquifers - of course not - or that we should seek a balance, a development of the rural environment that is sustainable - of course it is - but their policy of maximalism prevents them from voting in favour of a solution that, although incomplete, tries to preserve the wetlands of the Doñana Natural Park and tries to guarantee surface water. [[Applauds]] They will vote against only because they do not think it is the best solution, they do not like it at all, or simply because they have not brought it to this House. In short, the reality is that the previous governments have done little. There was no consensus on the adoption of the first water law of the PSOE of 1985; there was no consensus on the 2001 hydrological plan of the People's Party; there was no consensus on the 2004 desalination plan; nor was there any momentum or leadership in 2017 to make a national pact possible. This lack of consensus prevents the adaptation, planning and implementation of the important hydrological investments that Spain needs. The challenges we face are adapting the National Hydrological Plan to the fight against climate change and curbing desertification, so if the reflection of Mr Sánchez's new government is going to be that of Mr Zapatero's government, it is going to be that of the Government of desalinators and cost overruns, that of the government that did not review the hydrological plans, they better break that mirror and look for a new one to look at. [[Applauds]] We ask the new Government to convene the National Water Board, where we will see who sits, but especially who does not get up. Our group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, is going to support this bill. We make responsible opposition, we want to reach that state water pact that pulls this scarce resource out of the political market and stops confronting the Spanish among themselves. We are against patches and emergencies and we advocate the development and implementation of watershed and national hydrological plans. There is a broad consensus around the initiative; we have only opposed Podemos. The initiative will count on our support because we believe it can contribute to the recovery of the Doñana aquifers, which can help to solve an ecological damage that, if it continues, would be irreparable and because, in addition, it will mean a social benefit for El Condado de Huelva. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Arrojo Agudo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be quick because we've made a mistake in the order of presentation. My colleague and Member of Parliament for Huelva, Isabel Franco, will then explain a number of issues that I had planned to make before my speech. She will review the quick history of what has brought us to the present. In 2014, a consensus agreement was signed by all parties, including the regents, which established, in fact, a legalization of the illegal waterings prior to 2004 and there had been a closure of illegal wells and waterings since that date. However, beyond some marginal and cosmetic closure of illegal wells, the most important thing that has happened has been the purchase of the farm of Los Mimbrales for 53 million euros of public money -50 000 euros per hectare, a real ball -, far above the market prices, that has led, yes, to closing wells that had 6.8 cubic meters of legally granted groundwater; that is, 53 million public money has been allocated to close legal wells, instead of closing free of charge, illegal wells. Even if the aquifer was declared at risk, as provided for in the Waters Act, it would be possible to review, ex officio and free of charge, the allocations in some farms reaching 8,000 cubic metres per hectare, well above the 4,500 mentioned in the special plan. The situation today, in any case, is as follows. According to the latest data from WWF, today there are 6200 hectares active in the area belonging to the Guadalquivir basin that, with the endowment of 4,500 cubic meters established by the current plan, involve a demand of 27 cubic hectometers - remember the number -. The resources available in this area amount to 23 cubic hectares of groundwater, according to the IGME, the Geological and Mineral Institute of Spain, to which the 4 cubic hectares of surface water transferred from the river Chanza, in the west of the province, should be added, totaling 27 cubic hectares. Demand is covered, the supposed deficit that is being talked about disappears de facto. In any case, the role of transvase pretends - they say - to end the overexploitation of the aquifer - I have heard -. I will read you exactly what the bill says: Communityers who join a user community requesting rights for the use of transferred surface waters are obliged to renounce, in favour of the user community, the individual exercise of their rights to use groundwater. Apparently fine. But it draws attention to the fact that these legal groundwater rights, instead of being rescued by the Administration, remain in the hands of the user community, which, as a good user community, will obviously use them. In any case, to a regent with legal condition of groundwater - look well - to use his own well costs him today 5 cents of euro per cubic meter, while the fee and fee to use the new transfer, if they recover costs as it is said, will be of the order of 20 cents of euro cubic meter, four times more. Therefore, all points out that, once the public money is spent on the transfer, the legal regents will prefer to continue using their concessions, so there would be a beautiful surplus of water to legalize illegal irrigation. And if not, for what, tell me? So, instead of solving the problem of insustainability that affects Doñana and the future of the exporting agribusiness itself, the problem will be aggravated by the spiral of irrigation growth that will be driven by this strategy. Allow me one last very quick reflection. Designing the future by encouraging misgovernment, irresponsibility, unsustainability and even the abusive exploitation of immigrants who are already in the press does not build the future but destroys it. I only hope that the position of the Socialist Party, which is going to support the proposal for a law on this subject, as we have already been told, will be the result of inertias from the past and not an expression of the project for the future that the new Government is promoting. Really, heartily, I hope so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u20	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u21	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to greet the farmers who are with us today. Mr Fernández Ferrera, today you are bringing us a bill that sells as a solution the transfer of 19 cubic hectometres, which, as we said in the Parliament of Andalusia, is a farce and a deception. This is because it does not alter the unsustainable water management model that exists in El Condado; on the contrary, the transvase projects an illusion of increased flows that will first increase the supply, which will lead to an increase in the area of irrigation, then it will lead to an increase in agricultural demand, and this will therefore mean more need for water, which has led to the need for a transvase of 4.99 cubic hectometres, which is already 19. If you do not go to the bottom of the problem, explain to me how much the next transfer is going to be necessary. Doñana is the environmental jewel of Huelva, Andalusia, but also Spain and, beyond, the European Union. In addition, the Doñana environment is possibly the most planned environment in Spain. However, as a result of life's paradoxes, all administrations have made a manifest neglect of their functions, which has led us to a particularly complicated situation. Let's make a memory. In 1972, forty-six years ago, the Almonte-Marismas Regiment Plan was launched. In 2003, the Board approved the Potad, which established the need for a irrigation management plan; in 2010 this plan warned that only one third of the irrigation had legal water permits. In 2014, the Plan of the Forest Crown of Doñana, which had an extraordinary consensus even of the regents, amnestyed the illegal irrigation existing until 2004, placed the legalized area at 9400 hectares and pledged to eliminate the illegal irrigation transformed since 2004. Since then, the Administration has not only not closed the illegal irrigation but has not even identified them, even resulting in a notable increase in the illegal irrigation that according to WWOOF today would occupy about 1100 hectares. That aquifer 27 that gives life to Doñana is overexploited everyone knows: the Potad warned us in 2003, told us by Unesco, the European Commission has opened us a sanctioning file and last year even the confederation said it. Even the environmental prosecutor of Huelva said that there was a sense of impunity and corruption historically sustained by some municipalities and by the Junta de Andalucia. [[Applauds]] What County and Doñana need, ladies and gentlemen, is a responsible management that goes, irreparably, by declaring the aquifer overexploited. You speak of general interest. The government in the People's Party took over the public utility to speed up the natural gas warehouse in Doñana and the government of the Socialist Party of Andalusia is taking over the general interest to provide for a transfer that does not have cost-benefit studies or economic, social and environmental viability. What you are doing here today is not thinking of a solution that will benefit farmers or that will benefit Huelva and Andalusia and much less Doñana: it is an electoral measure that only thinks of the next Andalusian elections, that only thinks of yourself. But my group is not going to contribute to this deception because we want the best for Huelva and we also want the best for Andalusia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs González Bayo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to rise to this rostrum to set the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a law on the transfer of resources of 19,99 cubic hectares from the Red, Odiel and Stones hydrographic demarcation to the Guadalquivir hydrographic demarcation, which we are debating here today by the Andalusian Parliament. This initiative emerges as a bill of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Andalusian Parliament because for many years, during the years of the People's Party government, the problem in Doñana has not been looked at; simply promises, passivity. Today this law comes to this House thanks to the Socialist Party. The procedure in this Parliament has been welcomed by the majority of the political groups and reflects the amendments of all the political groups, including those of Podemos. It is due to a demand long awaited by a whole region, which comes to meet the environmental, social and economic needs of a region like El Condado, precisely the three aspects that define sustainability. I would like to welcome the three representatives of the political groups in the Andalusian Parliament, which is also yours. Thank you so much for being here. I would also like to welcome the Minister of the Environment and Planning of the Territory, the Director General of Water, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the mayors of El Condado de Huelva, who have worked many hours with great effort to ensure that this law is here today. [[Applauds]] Nor do I want to forget the farmers in El Condado who are in the guest gallery today. I rise to this rostrum very happy because today the law of transfer occupies the political space of this country. I should have occupied it six years ago, but Rajoy's executive, Mr. Manuel Andrés, didn't want to. When he had absolute majority other transfers were approved but Huelva's did not. Now, you say, which is the government, you have forgotten the 'No water', the 'No water' government to the province of Huelva. I am pleased that, again, a socialist government is going to ensure the water health of Doñana - very happy - and also the development of its peoples because this law is going to guarantee the water balance of aquifers and also of associated systems. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this bill, which responds to an environmental demand from a region as unique as El Condado de Huelva, which possesses the crown jewel of Spain, Andalusia and Europe. We are talking about the Doñana National Park, more than 100 000 hectares protected, considered the largest ecological reserve in Europe. This law comes to protect that aquifer that challenges the water balance of Doñana. We have to act quickly, we can no longer wait, we have lost six and a half years, because if we do not act in the short term we will have problems. The Socialist Group supports this law by responsibility and by commitment to the environment and to the people living in the environment. This has always been our tonic when we rule. It was a socialist government that approved on 15 February 2008 the transfer of 4.99 cubic hectometers from the Tinto, Odiel and Piedras basin to the Guadalquivir watershed, to ensure the supply - I say it loud and clear because there are deputies who do not understand it - of the towns and municipalities of El Condado de Huelva. This transfer is working but is clearly insufficient to meet the environmental values needed by Huelva County. Therefore, the hydrological plans of Tinto, Odiel and Piedras contemplate the availability of 15 additional cubic hectares of surface water of the Huelva system, in the same way as the Guadalquivir Hydrological Plan contemplates the same need to meet the imbalance in Doñana. Then the limbs are placed and it has been the Junta de Andalucia - beyond its own responsibility because it is not an autonomous competition since it is an intra-Community basin but it is of state competence - which, from the concern and always with the idea of seeking solutions, has placed on the table this law of transfer. In addition, the Andalusian Board drafted a water management plan located north of the forest crown of Doñana that establishes the possibility of extraction for the different uses of supply and irrigation of the Doñana aquifers according to the capacity to recharge them; recharge that is analyzed each year by a scientific body, the IGME, to avoid the deterioration of it. Then here you do not work, as has been said from this rostrum, without controls. We work with control and knowing very well what we have in our hands because what we have in our hands is responsibility and is the health of Doñana. [[Applauds]] We have come a long way to get here today with the law of transfers and it has not been easy because there have been many interferences, especially from political groups that occupied the government, but the constancy, the work and the conviction has not removed any socialist who occupied a position of government from the idea of bringing into this House a law of transfers because, ladies and gentlemen, we could not miss this opportunity, since Huelva is one of the few provinces that receives the most rainfall a year. Last year, when we saw the drought throughout Spain, in Huelva we had five times the demand needed for the uses in Huelva. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of all the politicians who make up this House to pass this transfer law because we are going to support Doñana's health, but we are also going to approve the economic development of the peoples of Almonte, Bonares, Lucena del Puerto, Moguer and Rociana del Condado. We are talking about stopping to extract water from the ground, guaranteeing water to the national park, and we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the health of the most important national park in Spain and Europe, but we are also talking about the towns of El Condado de Huelva. I therefore call for the vote in favour of this bill. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Romero Hernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, a cordial greeting to the farmers who have travelled here, also to the mayors of the area and to the farmers of Bonares, Lucena del Puerto, Moguer, Palos de la Frontera, Rociana del Condado and Almonte, among others, as well as to the Minister of the Environment and, of course, also to the president of the provincial parliament. I want to say to the farmers, "Encourage everyone! We will not allow some of those who sit in these armchairs to question and question the honorability and the good doing, trying to throw down what you do in the area of Huelva, in the area of The County, with the theme of strawberry and blueberries. We won't allow it because it's simply a lie. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, farmers in the province of Huelva know well that water is wealth and employment if you know how to work the land along with water. The province of Huelva is the largest producer of strawberries and red fruits in Europe. From Huelva, the entire national market for strawberries and blueberries is supplied and, in addition, 60% of all production is exported to Europe, implying the entry of a large amount of money in the province of Huelva, with an invoicing of almost EUR 1 billion. Fruit production is also an eminently social crop. The minister said a week ago that there are more than 6 million newspapers that generate the cultivation of red fruits and strawberry. In addition, a great deal of labour is needed; more than 100 000 jobs are needed directly or indirectly in the various auxiliary and service companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the county of El Comte de Huelva has been demanding water to continue its work for more than thirty years and that has been asked of all the political groups, but it was Minister Fatima Báñez who sat with them and was sensitive to the requests they were demanding, so we have started to work; she, first of all, and the rest of the Members, then together with the People's Party. For what? To get water. And it was from that moment when the transfer of 4.9 cubic hectometres to El Condado began to take place; moreover, because we thought that it was inconceivable that a province so rich in water was, and that it is also in solidarity with other provinces, had in one of its regions a need for water and could not be watered as a result of the lack of water. That is why infrastructure was needed and that is a reality today. The facts are a reality, not the words, Mrs González Bayo. The facts are a reality and to that we have gone the People's Party by the hand of Fatima Báñez. First, we have made the transfer of 4.9 cubic hectometres to El Condado, it has amounted to more than 23 million euros, 563 hectares are being watered at this time, today, thanks to those 4.9 cubic hectometres. And they have already closed, gentlemen of Podemos, they have already closed about 400 wells of which are pinned in the Doñana aquifer, in aquifer 27; there are some more left as a result of this transfer. It is also a reality as the Trigueros Canal is being auctioned and with it we will have the possibility to water more than 20,000 hectares in El Andévalo, in the countryside and in the county. And it is also a reality the acquisition of the farm of Los Mimbrales, not because of what Mr. de Podemos has said but because that assumes that 6.8 cubic hectometres are deducted from the right of extraction on the Doñana aquifer 27. That's the big reality, that's what you've been mainly trying to do and that's how it's been done. And it is a reality the construction of the Alcolea dam, it amounts to 89 million euros and it will be necessary to water in El Condado, in La Campiña and in El Andévalo. This is reality. The same was true of the El Andévalo dam, which was inaugurated by Minister Elvira Rodríguez and which unfortunately, gentlemen of the PSOE - unfortunately because the Andalusian Junta has not yet done its duties which are the conducts of the El Andévalo dam -, nothing can be watered, it is a great bath with water but the fields cannot be watered. And I ask: Of these realities, which are seen, touched, how many of these realities have the PSOE made and offered to farmers in El Condado? Which one? What play? What performance? What? Just like chickens, poop, poop? Well, it's not just about pooping, it's about having realities, too. Moreover, the only reality that PSOE has given in Huelva has been the special management plan for the irrigation area, located in the north of the forest crown of Doñana. What a problem if the only thing they've done is this! What a problem many farmers who have been cultivating in the area since God's entire life, have been cultivating forever. What a problem with all they've done! Historically they came to cultivate and now they leave them in absolute illegality. But also in the area of El Condado the transvase is essential also to preserve the aquifer of Doñana. I have already spoken before the wells that have been closed and I have already spoken of the need to preserve Doñana as a fundamental value also for the farmer. I have two fears on this subject. First, the fear of the statements of Pedro Sánchez, who in Albacete, a few days ago, has said strictly that our goal is the end of the transfers and to bet on desalination. I ask you, Mrs González Bayo, are you also referring to this transfer? Are you also referring to the transfer from Doñana, the transfer from El Condado? Or are they just other people's transfers and ours aren't? [[Applauds]] Another great fear that I have is the partners that the Government has right now. We have Podemos - you have all heard what he has told us - and the Republican Left of Catalonia, who has come here to say that not in our face. These are the fears of the People's Group, which is seeing that all the work it has done, with the realities we are having, will be thrown to the ground simply because Pedro Sánchez is president with the support of those partners, who do not want transfers or want anything. In Spain there are seventeen transfers and the province of Huelva only wants a transfer of 19.9 cubic hectares. It is not lawful for Huelva to be denied what she herself produces. We are rich in water and, therefore, that is not conceivable. I'm done, Madam President. I just want to tell you one thing, Mrs. Bayo. I remember one Tuesday you said to farmers and the media: If the PP wants, the bill is passed on Friday in the Council of Ministers. It was a lie. I know it was a lie, but you told them. Now I say to him: If that were the case, Pedro Sánchez will approve next Friday in the Council of Ministers the bill of the transfer. Ask him, see if it's true. [[Applauds]] Ask him. And, Mrs. Franco...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u26	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u27	I'm done, Madam President. Mrs Franco, you are a Member of Parliament for Huelva, although you are from Seville. It seems to me a barbarity that you say the transfer to The County is a farce and a deception. It seems to me a barbarity, as it also seems to me a barbarity that has not condemned the words of his colleague from Podemos when he has questioned the honorability of farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u28	Thank you very much to the delegation of the Parliament of Andalusia. Thank you very much to all of you and to the delegation that accompanies us in the rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u29	Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate on the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the reform of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary on urgent measures to implement the State Pact on Gender Violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The State Pact on Gender Violence was approved by this House on 28 September 2017. It has therefore been nine months and after nine months the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House the consideration of the first measure of that pact. Of the 214 measures that the pact has, this is the first to be discussed in this House; a legislative measure, a proposal for an organic reform law in turn of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, on urgent measures for the implementation of the State Covenant on Gender Violence. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all the representatives who attended the subcommission's call for a state pact on this subject, which I have just mentioned, stressed the need for specialized and specific training in this field and practically in all institutional areas: government, professionals, the State Security Forces and Bodies, but above all - I stress, above all - in the area of the judiciary. Paragraph 5 of the Pact, referring to the promotion of training to ensure the best assistance response, specifies concrete measures to influence and strengthen the training of members of judicial and fiscal careers. Action 159 calls for more extensive specialized training in gender-based violence, including for female judges and family and juvenile judges. Action 160 contains a mandate to increase judicial training in anti-discrimination law, including gender perspective and cross-cutting in opposition to the judiciary, in the Judicial School and in the annual continuing training provided by the General Council of the Judiciary, making this subject mandatory and evaluable. It is of no lesser importance to propose legislative reform to introduce specific evidence of gender-based violence as a requirement for competition in specialized judicial bodies. What the Socialist Parliamentary Group - and therefore the Government of Spain - proposes is that, with absolute respect for the judiciary, there is an urgent need to make a qualified leap towards the formative action developed and planned by the General Council of the Judiciary on equality and the fight against gender-based violence. Indeed, this training already exists, but reality shows that it must be adapted to a raw social reality, which requires a greater deepening of content and commitment, as is the case in many other subjects but which is an unspeakable priority in this. The approach of this proposed law addresses training in two different but inseparable phases, initial training in access to the judicial career and continuing training during the development of the judicial career, thus permeating the demands of an increasingly less permissive society in the face of gender-based violence and inequality between women and men. Both Organic Law 1/2004 on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence and Organic Law 3/2007 on the Effective Equality of Women and Men urgently require the improvement of training and acquisition of knowledge in anti-discrimination law by members of judicial and prosecutorial careers. We are talking about study and training in the principle of equality between women and men, including measures against gender-based violence and its cross-cutting application in the jurisdictional sphere, as well as the gender perspective in the interpretation and application of standards. I repeat: interpretation and application of the rules. Articles 310 and 433 bis of the Organic Law on the Judiciary refer to this. Thus, all selective evidence for entry and promotion in judicial and prosecutorial careers will include in its agenda the study of the principle of equality between women and men, including measures against gender-based violence and its cross-cutting application in the area of jurisdictional function. Therefore, in order to meet the specific and ongoing training objectives, it is necessary to ensure the acquisition of knowledge in the above-mentioned fields and to provide the necessary training tools to have the optimal training to interpret and apply the standards with criteria of equality, non-discrimination and gender perspective, and all this in the opposition phase, in the theoretical-practical course of the Judicial School and in the continuous training offered during the judicial and fiscal career. On the basis of the above, the General Council of the Judiciary is responsible for the selection and rigorous preparation of judges who aspire to take up positions in courts specialized in male-based violence. It is therefore necessary to provide for a system of preferential and quality specialization in which they must pass evidence to prove specific knowledge in this field. Those who pass these tests and obtain places in the courts of violence against women and in the criminal courts specialized in the matter, before taking possession of them shall be required to participate in specific training activities which shall be established on a statutory basis for that purpose. The other fundamental pillar of this legislative amendment is the promotion of criminal courts specializing in gender-based violence, either exclusively or in a well-compatible manner with other subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, the state pact calls for the creation of more specialized courts to optimize the institutional response to the problem of gender-based violence. The provision of article 89 bis.2 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, which refers to the specialization of one or more courts in the matter by province, has not been developed in all cases. Of the 345 criminal courts that exist today, only 26 are specialized and do not exist in all autonomous communities. The burden of work and the failure to create new judicial resources in recent years explain the paralysis of the process of specialization of criminal courts. To this end, this legislative proposal proposes the revision of the judicial plant after the report of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the autonomous communities that assume the transfer in the matter of justice in order to respond to the needs of the establishment of exclusive criminal courts of gender-based violence in localities that by volume of cases require it or are judged compatible with other subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, our obligation is to fulfil what we have agreed and therefore to be consistent with the commitment we have made to the citizens of this country, but especially to women, to the victims of gender-based violence, to whom they can leave this hell - they and their children - but also to whom they have not been able to leave, to whom we owe a debt to their memory and to their pain. Any agreement, in addition to the commitment that is made when it is signed, requires the unequivocal manifestation of wanting to fulfil it; that is called political will. This government has it. Not only are gestures and forms important, they are important, but they are strengthened and gain credibility when they are carried out with concrete political action on a daily basis. The first legislative measure that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House once the government presided over by Pedro Sánchez is precisely the consideration of a highly sensitive law, which is much more than a declaration of intent, is the evidence once again that the Socialist Party has been and is a feminist, as is this 21st-century Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion - and I am convinced that we are going to seek the majority support of the House because we are the same groups that have signed the State Pact against Gender Violence - I simply want to tell you that we are making history from and for equality, and of course we are making up for lost time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Cancela Rodríguez, I confirm that the two seats of the Navarro People's Union, of the Joint Group, will vote in favour of this taking into consideration the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary so that the means approved in the State Pact against Violence against Women can be applied urgently. And we'll do it for two reasons. Firstly, a very generic one, because we absolutely believe that it is a scourge that must disappear from our country and because we are signatories to that pact of State, and secondly, because of the very experience - as I will now explain - that we have in the importance of training, especially in all areas of attention to women and their children who are victims of such gender-based violence, especially, as proposed by the Socialist Group, in the area of judicial power. We do not think much less than in the policies that have to do with violence against women someone or some ideology should carry the flag, we believe that this should be of absolute unanimity, and we say this through the facts. The first community in Spain to develop a law - led by Unión del Pueblo Navarro - on violence against women was Navarra in 2001. In 2007, the first major institutional agreement of the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, the delegation of the government and the executive branch was in the Navarra Foral Community, of the Navarro People's Union. In addition, the first community to implement the agreements of the Istanbul Treaty in Spain was the Foral Community of Navarra, in the Foral Law, adopted unanimously in 2015. Some in this House say that social measures or, in this case, against violence against women are progressive, because there has been a political party here that has developed these measures for 23 years, always in alliance with the Socialist Party, in the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u33	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u34	Thank you, Madam President. We know that machismo is everywhere. Fortunately, feminism is already within this House, not only with the Socialist Party but with the majority of parliamentary groups. And machismo is also in justice. It's one of the things we talked about in that state pact negotiation. I would like to take advantage of the limited time I have to justify including this measure in that state pact and to make it the first step in your debate in this House. In 1990 the decision of the Lleida National Court on the miniskirt case came; it said that a rape victim might have provoked the stalker for his clothing. I have set this example first because dress can be a case of machismo, but not the clothing of the victims but the toga, under which this machismo is often hidden. In the year 2000 we have several examples, from the High Court of Justice of Andalusia, which did not consider bleeding to murder a woman with thirty stab wounds until the case of Murcia, where 'zorra' was not considered an insult in a trial for threats. And I want to quote a case from Barcelona, which ended in acquittal and whose sentence I quote textually: The physical aspect presented by the victim in the three acts of the trial, not only arranged but dressed in fashion, with rings, bracelets and large glasses, does not coincide with that of a woman who has spent months of aggression. And so we could continue to the case of La Manada, no doubt the most sonic, but not the only, unfortunately, because, as I have already said, machismo hides many times under the toga. We therefore need that training throughout the legal environment. After adopting that state pact nine months ago, after the drafting of it almost a year ago, today we have the first legislative change of those two hundred measures that we have adopted and negotiated all parliamentary groups. To do this, a motion of censure has been necessary, unfortunately, but today we take the first step so that, at least, the machismo stops wearing toga and the trials start to be a little more egalitarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u35	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start once again my speech at this plenary session of Congress, recalling that today we still have nine political prisoners in the prisons of Madrid, nine good people unjustly imprisoned, without trial, without sentence, for crimes they have not committed; accused of rebellion with a total absence of violence and for a non-existent crime, such as the convening of a referendum. [[applause]] Having said that, Mrs Cancela, we are going to vote in favour of this bill. It is true that a great deal of training is lacking and, therefore, it is a good idea that there is training, specialization and evaluation. It is a necessity when it comes to training judges, magistrates and, in general, those who operate by providing justice. It is noted that this formation is missing and therefore this proposal for a law we like and we will support it. But we have a couple of doubts - and I am short for the short time I have - which we would like to clarify during the period of amendments. The first: Who evaluates the evaluator? That is to say, is the General Council of the Judiciary formed in order to be able to undertake these assessments which, for us, are essential in order to guarantee a fair trial, a judgment without gender bias and which, therefore, protects the victims and goes in line with what has been agreed in the state pact - is redundancy worth it -? Why does the law decline to set minimums? You know that often the devil is in the details and regulation can be a devil. Why, therefore, do we refuse the possibility of setting minimums in the law itself in relation to what has to be contained in this evaluation process that will be held by the General Council of the Judiciary? This would be the first of the doubts. The second would be the budgetary issue. If this law progresses, Mrs Cancela, I understand that it will not be applicable this year, in view of the budget. I say this because it is good that on a subject such as gender-based violence - indeed on all issues - we give the victims a clear message and schedule when it will be possible to implement all these specialized criminal courts, which we trust will exist and can be implemented, but obviously we need budget allocation. The second question, therefore, is how we schedule the victims to feel that this law is going to be effective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u38	Thank you very much, President. Already in 1995, the United Nations recognized that violence against women is an obstacle to achieving equality, development and peace goals, also stating that such violence violates and impairs the enjoyment by women who suffer from their human rights and fundamental freedoms, in turn defining the syndrome of abused women as assaults suffered by women as a result of historically unequal power relations between women and men, manifesting itself in three fundamental areas: abuse within the framework of partner relations, sexual assault in social life and harassment and discrimination in the workplace. In the face of this drama, the public authorities cannot be alien and to this they compel us not only civilizing principles, but also clear constitutional mandates such as the content of article 9.2, which obliges us to remove obstacles that prevent women from fully enjoying their fundamental rights, such as freedom, equality, life, security and non-discrimination, all of which are enshrined in the same Constitution. Faced with this structural violence, which is the most brutal manifestation of inequality between men and women, it has been responding from the public authorities and also from the same society in a growing and constant but also insufficient way, as it continues to occur within our society and, therefore, remains an outstanding task. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law that we are now considering is another step that comes to add to other steps that have been taken in the struggle to eradicate this stigma that accompanies us as a society. I would now like to recall in a unique way the Organic Law 11/2003, as regards its measures concerning gender-based violence; the various amendments made with regard to the Criminal Code; the Law 27/2003, regulating the protection order; the Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection against gender-based violence, in which, inter alia, the most important courts of violence against women were created; the Organic Law 3/2007, on effective equality between men and women, in which, through its various additional provisions, more than thirty laws were amended, including the Organic Law on the Judiciary, in aspects such as, inter alia, those relating to the training of judicial and fiscal career and the specialization of criminal courts in the area of violence against women, which the proposal now under consideration seeks to expand and improve. Finally, I have to refer - as other speakers who have spoken before me have already done - to the State Pact on Gender Violence, adopted unanimously by this House on 28 September 2017, which revived that consensus which also included the above-mentioned Organic Law 1/2004. All this in order to address a problem such as gender-based violence, a problem which, as has often been said, is global and structural in our society and which needs to be resolved through the 213 measures contained in the State Pact, of which approximately 41 relate to the field of justice, both in substantive and procedural areas and in those relating to the judicial and fiscal career and its governing bodies, as well as to the rest of the staff in the service of the Administration of Justice and also the so-called administration of the Administration of Justice. The legislative initiative now under consideration aims to comply with some of these 41 measures concerning the administration of justice. In particular, measure 104, on the better enforcement of the specialization of criminal courts, calls for the effective enforcement of the current Organic Law on the Judiciary, which provides for the specialization of one or more criminal courts in each province, of which there are currently only 26 out of 345, and not even in all autonomous communities. Secondly, the proposal implements measures 159 and 160 contained in paragraph 5 of the Pact, which concern the promotion of training to ensure the best assistance response, which, as regards the administration of justice, calls for the extension of the specialized training of professionals in the administration of justice. It also calls for the introduction of specific evidence as a requirement to compete with specialized judicial bodies, as well as for the expansion of anti-discrimination law and gender agendas in opposition to the judiciary, school and annual continuing training. And, lastly and thirdly, the proposal raises the need for evidence of specialisation for access to judicial bodies specialized in violence against women, extending the route already initiated by article 310 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, introduced by the Organic Law 3/2007 on Equality of Women and Men, which required that all selective evidence for promotion in the judicial and fiscal career should include the study of the principle of equality between women and men, measures against gender-based violence and its cross-cutting application in the area of jurisdictional function. Now, in the proposal, selective evidence specialising in violence against women is introduced for those aspiring to occupy judicial organs specialized in this kind of violence, ensuring that those who overcome them are judges specialists in violence against women, with a preference for the provision of places in those courts, although this condition of specialists will not be sufficient for the taking of possession once they have obtained the place without having previously participated in specific training activities organized by the General Council of the Judiciary. I'm finishing up, President. The Basque Parliamentary Group of the PNV will vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposed organic law. We can say that we could have gone further in the implementation of other measures of the State Pact relating to the Organic Law on the Judiciary, but this should not be an obstacle for us, in fulfilment of the constitutional mandate contained in its article 9.2, to take without delay any measures that affect the improvement of the judicial response of victims of gender-based violence: women and minors. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u39	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law that we are discussing today, and which we hope to adopt, on urgent measures in implementation of the State Pact on Gender Violence, was proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group when it was in the opposition. Today, with a different scenario, we think that this discussion should go beyond the proposed objectives. As far as the bill itself is concerned, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya will vote in favour, as it has always voted in favour of all those issues relating to gender equality. Having said that, we welcome the beginning of action in relation to the judiciary, which, among other things, often did not give women credibility before their aggressors and seemed to always seek to mitigate their claims and justify the unjustifiable. Effective training and specialization in gender-based violence among professionals working in this area is therefore essential to ensure a prompt and correct judicial response. We have repeated this on several occasions: although the pact is not perfect, we are aware that it is the opportunity to start working with determination and conscience. We doubt that with the budget left to us by the People's Party, which is being dealt with in the Senate, the measures provided for in this bill can go ahead. The envelope provided for in the compact should be increased. We also call for the implementation of many of the measures of this pact that do not even require a budget; they are simply improvements in prevention and in the awareness or revision of protocols or training. We repeat: macho violence is not only the fruit of intolerant and savage personal attitudes, it is also the consequence of a society in which violence and machism are implicitly and daily lived and legitimized. The struggle is not just the eradication of macho violence, but the eradication of machoism, and we hope that one day it will also be the eradication of violence. To conclude, and speaking of women and justice, I just need to add: Freedom for Dolors Bassa and Carme Forcadell. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u41	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u42	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not start as well as we would like, and I regret to say so, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. They bring us a proposal for a law to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary, improving the formation of the judiciary and the prosecution in the area of anti-discrimination law and gender perspective. All right, but what they bring is one of the measures that we include in the state pact, something that is already voted on and approved by the Joint Group, by Esquerra, by the PNV, my group - Citizens -, the People's Group and also yours, the Socialist Group. This was agreed and approved by all except Uniti Podemos, who abstained; even so, all of us who are part of that subcommittee know that, like the rest of the groups, they agreed and contributed different points of view to the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, they are the current government of our country. Are you really aware that you no longer have excuses? Time is pressing; you said so, Mrs. Cancela. Do you think that this is the quickest way to launch the state pact, with a proposal for a law to debate something already debated in the plenary? Do you intend to bring all the measures of the state pact back to one another? Now you are already a government: you have other means to put it in place more quickly. I already know that it requires procedures, of course, but perhaps - perhaps only perhaps - it would have been faster if it had been taken as a preliminary draft law with the reports corresponding to the first Council of Ministers, or the second, do you not believe? It is a very concrete reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that was debated intensively. The subcommittee was attended by the president of the Gender Violence Observatory of the General Council of the Judiciary, as well as other officials. I think they would have had no problem having the necessary reports quickly. For other issues, they have been seen to be much faster, such as lifting control of the Generalitat's accounts. [[Applauds]] This gives us an idea of what their priorities are, and of course we do not like them. It is true that the People's Party, while ruling, did not move a single finger to implement the state pact, and precisely because of this delay that we are dragging away now this is more urgent than ever. It's been nine months - I repeat, nine months -. Stop all the propaganda, turn around, and get it going as soon as possible, please. Moreover, Citizens are already asking from here that, if this initiative is approved, which is to be approved, it should be dealt with through the urgency procedure. The victims shouldn't wait a second longer. Aside from that demand, despite having debated for weeks and weeks in the subcommission, I will go back to the bottom, of course. You record the initiative when the judgment against The herd is handed down, a ruling that outraged many women and many mothers and fathers - look at the date - of this country. I personally also include myself among them, because I am a woman and have a daughter, a daughter I want to educate in freedom and not in fear. Respecting the separation of powers and also knowing that our system has legal guarantees through the way of appeal, I must say that there are issues arising from this procedure and other similar ones that, as legislators, we cannot avoid. We had to read certain phrases through which an absolute lack of gender perspective and empathy towards the victim is clearly observed, and this should not be the case, it cannot be the case. But we must not charge any judge; we must assume our responsibility and correct it with laws that ensure that specific training is needed to understand what sexist violence is and how it manifests itself. This is what this initiative seeks. Like you, Citizens also raised this need. I repeat, we would like the citizens, and all the victims above all, to know that this is something that is already overly debated, agreed and agreed by all groups. We do not say this because we want to annoy the propagandistic action of the Socialist Party, no; we say this because we believe that it is very important for these women to know that there is unity in Parliament to combat macho violence. The image we project from here can be an incentive for them to ask for help. That's why we're not gonna get tired of repeating it. As you bring this initiative that has been raised in this context in a case of sexual violence, I want to say that we still have a great deal to do in this area. As you well know, my group's intention was to expand the 2004 Gender Violence Act, because sexist violence has different ways of manifesting itself, and not only occurs within the partner or ex-partner. What do we find ourselves considering during the negotiation of the state pact? All kinds of restraints from the Socialist Party, which the People's Party certainly supported. It was always a point of discord with you all that had to do with amending the 2004 Law against Gender Violence, perhaps because it might stop calling itself Zapatero's law. It is a law that has been in force for more than twelve years now, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. They have to adapt to the times. It is necessary to extend this law to all forms of violence, but not only in its definition. We must also put in place the measures to combat each of them. It cannot be that a victim of sexual violence is a second victim, that he is not served in a specialized court of violence against women, a court close to his home, with specialized professionals. We must ultimately ensure that women who suffer sexual violence are not continually revictimized and receive the same support as another victim of male violence. This is something that could have been resolved in the pact. Too bad, but it wasn't like that. - In this we agreed with the United Group We can. From Citizens we will continue to work for equality and the eradication of all these forms of violence. I'm done, President. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, do you already count on the money? Well, it has to come and be approved, but in principle there's the pact money in the State's General Budgets, which you voted against. Be responsible, let go of so much slogan and propaganda and get to work on forced marches so that the pact is implemented as soon as possible. If they do so, do not hesitate at any time that they will have the support of Citizens, but do not hesitate that from the follow-up committee we will ensure their compliance and we will be vigilant so that the money committed goes where it has to go, to the victims; because contrary to what the current Minister of Equality says, that money is someone's; that money is exclusively theirs and for them; do not forget it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u43	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u44	Good afternoon. Mrs. Cancela, let's support your initiative, it would be more! Indeed, we are faced with the first initiative that wants to advance equality for women; the first initiative because this country has suffered seven years of People's Party in which women have been excluded from public policies; seven years without policies for half the population. Since the signing of the State Pact against Violence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, forty-eight women have been murdered in our country. Therefore, welcome be this initiative, urgency to talk about women and, above all, urgency after knowing these judgments that blush not only to the legal world, but to Spanish society. Sentences that have to do with the macho look that our courts have; sentences that judge us, question us for how we dress, how we walk, if we walk alone at night; sentences that are questioning our sexual rights. Therefore, welcome be this initiative. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mrs Cancela, we do want to point out that you are now in the government. We would have liked them to have already taken the necessary steps to take credit changes. You know that significant amounts of money are missing to reach the 200 million euros of the State Pact against Violence. He knows, moreover, that this measure does not include in the pact itself a cent of euro for the Ministry of Justice and for the Ministry of the Interior, then we will have problems if we are not able to make that modification of credits. I was telling you, Mrs Cancela, that there is no doubt that there is an urgent need to improve the training of legal operators, but we sincerely believe that this proposal for a law is very short, especially because it departs from the Istanbul Convention. You know that it has been in force in our country since 1 August 2014 and, as the honourable Members of this House know, obviously what the Istanbul Convention seeks is, in the broadest sense, to train each and every legal operator. In this proposal you choose two issues: one, to train a part of the legal operators, with an amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and, two, the amendment of the Plant Law to create specialized criminal courts. We are aware that the creation of specialized criminal courts is like a populist formula - if I may express it, it has at least a name - but we actually believe that the needs are elsewhere. We say that it violates the Istanbul Convention precisely because in our legal system it governs the accusatory principle, as you know perfectly well, and whenever it governs this principle, if we lack the proper training specialized in gender by the Public Prosecutor's Office we will obviously make mistakes; not to say that the particular accusations - that is, my profession, the lawyer - if they do not have that prism, that gender look will obviously make mistakes. We would like, and we will do so in the course of amendments, that the look, the openness of feminism in training to legal operators, in compliance with the Istanbul Convention, be improved. It is not only short on the mandate of the Istanbul Convention on this issue, but also this initiative takes away the mandate of the Istanbul Convention. As you know, what you're telling us is that we achieve all the forms of violence that spread against women. By opting for specialized courts, what you do is exclude a criminal typology that remains outside of this legal training - gender - which is absolutely essential. Crimes committed against sexual freedom, not within the sphere of the partner or the ex-partner, which are to be examined by courts that are not involved in this matter, crimes related to genital mutilation, crimes related to trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and also crimes related to forced marriages, will be excluded from this legal training. Of course it remains to take the initiative and, without a doubt, Mrs Cancela, we will strive to improve it. As I said at the beginning, each and every one of our country's investigative courts, throughout the State, will, with its proposal, remain outside this necessary formation. If I may, Mrs Cancela, the principle of equality in the protection of women is also broken, because every time you have an education court where your professionals do not have this training, we will give women second protection. Very quickly. We believe that the look in the formation must be different. It has already been said that secondary victimization or revictimization of women who suffer violence in the judicial environment must be avoided as a matter of urgency; obviously, gender must be placed as a primary factor of discrimination - it is clear - and, above all, empathy and the improvement of the skills of judges when they approach the investigation of these crimes. Why do we say that? Because we all know that in legal practice the filing of complaints becomes a real calvary for the women of our country because of that treatment, which is sometimes not the right one for the legal professionals, by placing women, victims, in a huge risk position. Mrs Cancela - I am finishing - of course we share this initiative, but we would like the look to be wider. Just as the compañeras of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea are working, I know that soon they will present a very ambitious law and with a technical team of the best that will defend and treat precisely each and every one of the violence that, in an integral way, we women suffer. This is the way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - to conclude - in this country the 8-M there was a democratic revolution; from the 8-M our society changed. We cannot defraud them, we cannot defraud neither society nor women, who are crying out in our streets two things: first, we want to live, all of us, and secondly, we want to be free. The time of death is over, the time of murder; we want a new and feminist time in which we do not have women in fear. We want free, happy women who can walk the streets. In short, we want a tomorrow without deaths, a tomorrow without fear, without machismo, a tomorrow with life and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos will always be helping the Government of our country to fight against macho violence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u45	Mrs Alba Mullor has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before the PSOE initiative we should remember what we are talking about and why we are doing it. First, we discussed the need to take measures to boost the training of members of judicial and prosecutorial careers to ensure the best judicial response, all within the fifth axis of the State Pact against Gender Violence. State Pact which, ladies and gentlemen - I will repeat until it is internalized - is not just of this House. It is not this House of Congress of Deputies that signed the State Covenant. It is not in my mind to diminish the importance of the work done, ladies and gentlemen, but the Congress of Deputies is not the State. The pact was not approved on September 28, 2017, contains measures subsequently introduced by the Senate and was signed by the autonomous communities, municipalities, the General Council of the Judiciary and social agents. [[Mrs. Álvarez Álvarez: No]] You forget that your greatness lies precisely in having added all wills and not having reduced yourself to a statement by this House which is to what you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, confine yourself to, a statement signed in September 2017. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the agreement reached among so many does not remain important, which goes far beyond what could be agreed here, unless they do so to justify their rhetorical speech that nothing has been done in the past, even if to justify that speech we have to twist the reality. We can forgive Podemos and his confluences that retort reality, as I have said, because, after all, they did not even sign the pact, but the party that is in the government must be required a minimum of rigour from which this proposition suffers in its first exhibition. You are basing your bill on a fallacy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not a receipt; you know that the People's Party government was in time to present the legislative amendments to which the pact refers. I would also like to tell you that we will soon register our own proposal for a law to reform Organic Law 1/2004, since the work for its drafting was completed in time, I insist. [[Applauds]] The People's Party is fulfilling its commitments and even more so in this area, which is a priority for us. That leads us to wonder how long the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to bring its legislative amendments to this House or whether they will be able to meet the deadlines that they insistently reminded the People's Party government, even if they start from an incorrect date. Secondly, we spoke and discussed this because the People's Party and its chairman made this fight a priority objective, and we were able to agree on a text with a series of measures that we all - well, almost all - share. To this end, the 2018 General State Budgets have been endowed with the greatest amount ever recorded to combat gender-based violence and intended to comply with the measures contained precisely in the state pact; those same budgets that you have described as rickets, antisocials and jibaros in social spending - words that yesterday the minister had to swallow in the Senate, defending there what it seems here was ethically indefensible. [[Applauds]] Thanks to this commitment of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, the Government will have the greatest amount ever devoted to combating violence against women and do not hesitate, as has already been indicated to you by another group, that from the follow-up committee we will exercise our functions, especially those collected in measure 212, to carry out the monitoring and evaluation of these budgetary appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you still want to point out so much at the expense of the state pact. They did so with the proposed law on pensions for orphans of gender-based violence - by the way, this is not the first proposal that is brought about by non-compliance with the State Pact against Gender-based Violence; it is the second, and the first is theirs but, apparently, they have already been forgotten because, moreover, it was an issue that was included in the pact. You do it again now and there is one question I want to ask you about with today's data: How are you going to solve the problem of the 0.16 contract, which wins today? You have been calling for a response from the Government for months, a government that you now occupy; therefore, you are responding to an issue of concern to all victims. If they do not, do not hesitate that from the People's Parliamentary Group they will be reminded every day of their ineptitude, their slowness, their lack of commitment to the victims and their feminism of posture. [[Applauds.- Mrs Alvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we assume that it was the haste to bring forward this proposal for a law that motivated the poor wording of the text presented. It becomes difficult to know who can access what at some point in their proposal. It is not possible to unravel what knowledge will be appreciated in the promotional tests and, above all, we wonder why there are only judges in its text, but there are magistrates and magistrates. Perhaps for you, for the PSOE, equality goes with promotion in the judicial career and does not reach the judges or the judges, apparently. [[Applauds.- Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez utters words that are not perceived.]] In conclusion - I quote a Member of this House - it is not your group that should have brought this proposal to this House, no; it is the Government. Why? Because the Government is bound by the laws and, article 561 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, states that everything relating to this text must be submitted to the General Council of the Judiciary and, therefore, everything relating also to the Statute of Judges and Judges, which we are seeing here. What's going on? That it's better not to ask for the council's report than to open a melon and let's read it. We can say, and you will agree, that you have wanted to circumvent this requirement, since it is now in your hand to do so and have preferred to move forward. It is clear that you are governed by what I say and not what I do because this was Mr Campo Moreno's argument in the debate on the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary in the matter of permits and licences of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It seems that it serves for some does not serve for others. We expected a little more rigour from him, I insist. Madam President, I'm done. We will vote in favour of taking into consideration its proposal for an Organic Law on the Reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on Urgent Measures in Implementation of the State Pact on Gender Violence, since we have worked from the People's Party to implement the measures of the Pact from the Government, and we will continue to do so to the same extent from the opposition, introducing the amendments that we hope will improve this legislative text to strengthen the training of judges, magistrates and prosecutors and, ultimately, give a better response to women, their children and their daughters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u48	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the prevention of digital gender-based violence among youth. Mrs Dueñas Martínez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I rise to the rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend this non-legislative proposal, which aims to continue to promote measures aimed at eradicating another form of violence against women, which is known as violence 3.0: digital gender-based violence. [[The lady]] I'm going to give you three data. According to the latest annual statistics of the Observatory of Domestic and Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary, last year the juvenile judges prosecuted 266 young people who had not yet reached the age of eighteen and had already made the life of their girlfriends hell. The last report of the Attorney-General's Office had already noted as worrying the significant increase in digital gender-based violence in his last report. I came to outline the prosecution's report that social networks - I think we can all know some close case - are the main means of communication among young people and facilitate control, surveillance and pressure on the couple. And a third fact, from the Reina Sofia Center, in its report on adolescence and youth: 27% of Spanish youth believe that gender-based violence is a normal behaviour within the couple, and little one or two out of every ten expressed concern about gender-based violence. The technologies, apart from the undeniable benefits they bring, encourage the permanence of stereotypes that perpetuate the privileged-oppressed relationship; this was stated in the subcommission for the Covenant of State by the founder and director of PantallasAmigas, Mr Flores Fernández. There are two types of violence in the digital sphere: psychological violence, which uses control and isolation strategies, and sexual violence, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately we have made much progress and among all of us in all these years; but we understand, and the data show, that it is necessary and fundamental to continue to advance and promote through education in values, education in equality, in respect, in non-discrimination. [[sexual exploitation and pornography]] All these are measures in order to increase awareness and in order to increase prevention, and we understand this also in the work of the subcommission. In this respect, as stated in the small amount of GNP presented, we have asked for a number of points in order to increase awareness and training, to continue with the specific campaigns in this field in these digital media, to increase the dissemination of anonymous and online support resources, systems that evaluate self-regulatory practices in this field. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I trust that you will support this initiative this afternoon in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, after listening to the previous initiative, I trust that now that you are in the Government of this country you will support this initiative. A government that they have come to - because we have to say it and we have to say it especially today - ceaselessly, but without motion because we did not know any government program in the past debate of the same. [[Applauds]] , and not as far as the subjects we are dealing with here today are concerned. Allow me also, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, to clarify something which I believe is necessary. She read last Sunday in the newspaper El País one of the first interviews to the Vice President and Minister of Equality, Mrs Calvo - to whom I wish all sorts of parabians - on what her first step would be answered that the State Pact against Gender Violence. For, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is certainly not going to be the first step of this executive, of this socialist executive will never be, and it cannot be, because the state pact, as you are well aware, was adopted in this House with broad parliamentary consensus. It was one of the axes of President Mariano Rajoy's investiture speech and, as I say, it was a key work axis to which we have been committed all of us who are part of this parliamentary group. One billion euros of budgetary commitment made and led in the first person by the People's Party Government. It is in the part for this exercise and in the General Budgets of the State, probably not as you wanted, but it is, but I also have to say that for the sake of consensus an amendment was drafted which reflected in more detail what was agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, public policies aimed at combating gender-based violence are under way and the State's General Budgets are being implemented, budgets that - I repeat - contain an important commitment to implement all the measures related to the State Pact; budgets that are now worth them, as they are worth taking from fellow travellers to those for whom they said they would never take a few months or even days ago. What things! Right? That is not enough political coherence, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! We are talking about budgets that you said in this House and outside of it, not a fact that the current President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, argued that he considered them ideological, non-social and that they attacked the welfare state. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate said about them: The PSOE will not support the budgets with five or fifty votes, with none. And my dear colleague and spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Álvarez, called them, among other things, ridiculous and said they were a scam. Well, those budgets, according to you so badly, are the ones that - do very well - have assumed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, as Groucho Marx said - I see that they have applied it to rajatabla to reach the government, and I confine myself to objective facts - these are my principles. If you don't like them, I have others. And we have already seen, as all the citizens in this country have seen, that they actually had others. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by wishing the new Executive, in particular the area that affects us, equality and everything related to policies against gender-based violence, the greatest of luck. I reiterate my request to the rest of the groups regarding this initiative. We are working on a transactional because it is good - this spokesman understands this - for this struggle, which I am convinced, for the work developed in the pact, which is of all and all. And I also say to the Socialist Group's bench that we will be very attentive to the development of how many policies are promoted in the area of equality and against gender-based violence, and we will do so as only this group knows how to do so, with responsibility and rigour and of course with commitment. In this, ladies and gentlemen of all the parliamentary groups, do not have the slightest doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, where a position will also be laid down, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. This non-law proposal deals with a problem that has been exacerbated as technologies, the Internet and uniquely so-called social networks have advanced, which, as we have all had an opportunity to know, and some probably to suffer, have among their disadvantages that of sharpening insulting messages and threats and in the case of relationships between people increase digital gender violence with formulas that seriously damage the lives and image of victims. The parliamentary initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group revolves around the measures it proposes around minors by taking advantage of our educational system and persists in measures against cyberbullying and other illegal behaviours that have already been taken to raise awareness and educate adolescents, their parents and teachers on an equal basis. In this regard, it should be recalled that we are faced with campaigns in which the Spanish Government has a decisive leadership mission, a task to which regional and local governments, educational communities, as well as public and private entities involved in planning that began to develop eleven years ago on an issue that is of constant and progressive concern in the field of education and in schools and institutes. I wanted to contribute to this initiative advocated by Mrs Dueños Martínez with a double amendment which aims to extend the scope of the Master Plan for the improvement of coexistence and safety in educational establishments with measures for the prevention and combating of grooming - that is, the entrapment of an adult over a minor - one of the most pressing risks and which has increased with virulence in recent years thanks to the anonymity of the networks. I also consider it necessary to incorporate among the measures of the master plan those relating to the prevention and detection of addictions to video games and online games because of the risk that they may result from behavior disorders and severe mental health problems, a matter that unfortunately appears more frequently among our children. Mrs Dueños Martínez has informed me that one of these amendments is going to be incorporated into a compromise, which I am grateful for. Madam President, I shall vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u53	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Today we are discussing a GNP on the prevention of digital gender-based violence among young people. From the creators of 'gender violence is a thing of the poor' today comes 'gender violence is a thing of the adolescents'; and mobile, of course. So I'm going to tell you some data that you don't even know; at least they don't appear in the non-law proposal. I don't know if you know them, if you've deliberately missed them, or if you just don't know them. Feminism is the second ideology among young women today, women between eighteen and twenty-four years old, according to the CIS. This means that young women are much more aware of issues of equality and gender-based violence. In turn, that means that they denounce much earlier when there is an aggression. Another fact is that the increase in complaints does not necessarily imply an increase in cases. That's also important to reschedule. Prior to the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, there were exactly zero complaints of gender-based violence. Does that mean there was no gender-based violence? Not much less. There was, but there was no instrument or cataloguing of it, and therefore there were no complaints of gender-based violence as such. The increase in complaints is undoubtedly a symptom of increased awareness, so let's drop the war of more or less complaints. Not to mention that his explanatory statement separates Spanish complaints from foreign claims, which is also racist. Another fact that surely surprises you a lot: people outside of adolescence also have access to both social networks and mobiles. I'm sure they didn't know that. The videos and sexual images mentioned in their non-law proposal can obviously exist among young people. Networks can even be used as a control. It can be controlled through networks and the networks of young women can be controlled, but not only those of young women. This can happen at any age, because nowadays - as I told you, I'm sure this surprises you very much - everyone has a mobile phone, a tablet or a computer. So it is very good that we make proposals to combat digital violence and it seems to us a good initiative because there is certainly digital violence, but stop criminalizing young people. Gender-based violence, whether digital or not, exists at any age and in any social status.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Alba, Ana, Triana, are just some of the known cases of male violence among teenagers. In 2017 alone, 385 proceedings were initiated for mistreatment in juvenile courts, and this is only the tip of the iceberg. According to the report on the perception of male violence in adolescence and youth issued by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, one in three young people considers it inevitable or acceptable in some circumstances to control their partner's schedules, to prevent the couple from seeing their family or friends, not to allow the couple to work or study, and even to tell them what they can do and what they cannot do. Therefore, we are faced with a real problem and, according to the National Institute of Statistics, 69% of children between the ages of ten and fifteen have a mobile phone, and from the age of sixteen that 69% of users connect to the network every day. Well, cyberspace offers us a magnificent window, a magnificent opportunity to connect, to keep informed about what is happening around us, but we also need to be aware that it can become a vehicle of criminal behavior and we cannot allow social networks to perpetuate roles of control or submission to people. It would help this - and I would like to say it here - that those of us who have been chosen to represent citizens would set an example and not use social networks to spread messages of intolerance and aversion to those who think differently. [[Applauds]] It is clear that much remains to be done, and the truth and truth is that the People's Party - although now it seems to want to be an active part of the solution to this problem - when it had the opportunity, when it had an absolute majority, did nothing to carry out measures of real impact that would undermine this problem. So, ladies and gentlemen, this way of doing politics has to end, because it is enough of resolutions that are then not concrete in action. Let us remember that the data protection regulation has entered into force and a new organic law has not yet been adopted. It is enough not to complete a serious and rigorous assessment of the policies adopted here. The People's Party, as part of the Government, has not convened the Observatory for School Co-existence since 2013, i.e. five years of leaving office in this area, and now intends to solve it with a GNP. In addition, there are no impact data on the school harassment telephone service. And it is enough to fail to comply with the State Pact against Gender Violence because, as you know, that pact in turn includes a commitment, a pact for education, from which his lordship of the PSOE and his lordships of Podemos have left. So I would tell you to stop having a face of doors out and doors in and out and stop hindering, to torpedo the jobs that we are doing here to achieve full equality between men and women. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, since it cannot be otherwise, we will support this non-law proposal. We have tabled an amendment to improve the content of this amendment, which provides teachers with the tools to help them detect and prevent male violence in classrooms, to convene the Observatory for School Living and to provide them with the necessary means and mechanisms to enable them to carry out their functions correctly, to promote school living plans to help prevent this type of male violence and to train young people, to train young people in the proper use of the Internet, social networks, new technologies, and especially in the protection of privacy and cybercrime. And without extending now, Mr President, I want to say that it is in our hands that we work hard, that we take the necessary measures to prevent cases such as those I said at the beginning, that of Ana, Alba or Triana, from being repeated again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to share three thoughts on this non-law proposal that the People's Party brings to us today. I have to start with one that I didn't think I had to remember, but since today's debate this afternoon is about feminism and macho violence, it is a must. My group did not abstain in the state pact because it did not want to fight against macho violence, it abstained because the pact left out many forms of macho violence, because there were no guarantees for its fulfillment - nine months after the People's Party government, and with this initiative that the Socialist Party has brought today, we see that we were absolutely right in what we were saying - and because we did not have guarantees for it to have funding, which we also saw with the State General Budgets. I therefore believe that our abstention was more than justified. [[Applauds]] Young people are many things. In my country, Galicia, thanks to the Government of the People's Party, we have been economically exiled, we are more precarious, we live much worse than our parents and we are a generation condemned to many things by the policies of the People's Party - don't look at me with surprise, they also rule in Galicia, well, they still rule in Galicia, they have little left. The truth is that what we are not is more violent, not more violent. There is no writing or study to justify this statement. It is quite serious that the People's Party insists over and over again on condemning a generation to be the protagonists of macho violence. I think this has to do with a bias, which is very common when it comes to gender-based violence, which is to think that the more complaints or prosecutions there are, the more male-based violence there is. But the truth is it means even the opposite. When the first laws against gender-based violence were applied in the Nordic countries, even in our country when Law 1/2004 was applied, what happened was that, as there was a greater awareness of society, many women were able to report and, therefore, some figures said that there was more violence. But this doesn't mean that that particular generation is more violent, to deduce it is quite phony. Therefore, the initiative of the People's Party is based on a fundamental error, and it would be important for us, as legislators, not to move it from this House. Secondly, we do not share his approach to male-based violence. We have said it over and over again and, whenever we can, we repeat it. The Machists, the aggressors, are not four madmen, the feminists say they are healthy sons of patriarchy. I think it is much better understood if we say that the sexist is the middle Spanish. Why? Because the whole society is macho. No one escapes this culture, we all form this culture of machismo. Therefore, we all have a responsibility to do something to change. As long as we keep thinking that we can treat this problem as if it were pond compartments, it's not going to change. This is what the PNL of the People's Party is talking about. Of course, we share the concern about macho violence on social networks and the use of communication technologies, but what we are most concerned about is that it will be solved with a series of super-small patches, by the way, even without wanting to comply with all the regulations that include the master plan, a plan that was made, curiously, by the Zapatero government and that you, sibilically, put aside in that part of the GNP that refers to the subject of Education for Citizenship. Perhaps it is because you prefer - this was one of the last decisions of the Ministry of Defence - that some issues be studied in class, such as the anthems about the homeland, which say such wonderful things as 'dying or triumphing'. Is this the way to teach our young people not to be violent, as you think they are? We believe that no, that under no circumstances. [[Applauds]] It is very important that we educate our young people and our young people in different values, which can be gathered in any kind of subject and in any kind of educational model, but we have to educate them in freedom, in equality. That's the homeland, and not what you intend to teach or pretend to teach with those flag pasodobles or those plasticine figurines that you wanted to do to raise our flag. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - I am telling you with quite a hindrance, as is the case in my country - they have to be updated, even they have to be updated to be sexists. There is nothing more to see Mr Feijóo last week saying to a Member in the Chamber of the Galician Parliament that he said all these things because'she was in great need'. Women are not very needy, we have very clear things, particularly young women. There is nothing more to see than what has happened in recent years, under the Popular Party government: some women, such as Dulceida on Instagram or Barbijaputa on Twitter, have done more for the rights of sexual diversity or for lesbian women than you have done with your public policies. Why does this happen? Does it happen because young people are more violent, we don't understand how to use technologies or the media or social networks? No, it happens because there's a government that doesn't want to take care of a problem that's society-wide. A society that is more egalitarian, in which there is therefore less macho violence, will be a better society for all and for all, regardless of our ideology. This is what you have not been able to take over, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I hope that the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party will be able to take over. The truth is that it is quite disappointing that the first thing you bring to this House is a very small part of this state pact. Ladies and gentlemen, we will always be with you to make policies against macho violence, you know it well, but it is true that you have two fundamental tools to implement everything that that pact says from now on. On the one hand, they can bring initiatives into this House without having to go through the Legislature; and, on the other hand, they can change credit. So please, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, take care of everything that the People's Party Government could not take over, and then we will start talking about how we are responding to all the demands made by women on the streets on 8 March. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. We have this non-legislative proposal from the People's Party on digital violence among adolescents. The general guidelines have already been laid down, both by the proposer and by the groups that have previously intervened, and of course we cannot say that there is more violence among young people and that it is a phenomenon affecting only young people. But it is true that it is an existing reality and we cannot avoid it, because I think it is even more worrying that some kind of violence is among young people, because then it does show a kind of failure, in the sense that if we have come to where the generations we have come from, and some younger generations are still anchored - or some of those generations - in concepts that we have fought so hard to overcome, we will have to reflect on what has failed or what is failing. I am not going to stigmatise or understand that it is a youth problem because it is more violent, and so on, I obviously share what has been said. But what we cannot do is close our eyes to a new situation, new by the type or by the medium in which it is used. Therefore, the proposal finds a reality - not a single reality, but a reality - because the data are what they are; we do not have the data that we do not have, but that does not mean that they are not a reality; obviously, there are many things that do not go through the courts and there are many things that are not denounced. Ladies and gentlemen, parallel to the gender-based violence - with capitals - that we have dealt with and that we have worked so hard on, it seems that it runs a stream with another dimension that is also marking a territory, which is called digital gender-based violence. The definition of gender-based violence we all have focused on and we know it because we have worked on it. It is understood as digital gender violence that psychological aggression that a person performs through new technologies, such as email, messaging systems such as WhatsApp or social networks, against his partner or ex-partner in a sustained and repeated way over time with the sole purpose of discrimination, domination and interference without consent to the privacy of the victim. Well, this is gender-based violence. Therefore, the problem is not the medium; the problem is the content. What's going on? That the medium is a novel element that can also be hidden in anonymity and can have another set of advantages for those who want to commit that crime that the other kind of violence does not recognize. Therefore, we have new phenomena: a new type of violence that is exercised above all on women, because this type of violence, however novel and digital, exerts the masculine over the feminine, does not change in that, does not change in that. Therefore, the problem is not the digital, but the violence. Having said that, I believe that here we must work on solutions, on what we can do to avoid this. Allow me to express myself, but I believe that the solutions proposed by the People's Party are very soft, without force, very loose. Why? Because when this was done, you were directing it to your Government and, therefore, directing it to what you knew was somehow doing. But I would like to make a different approach that has not been taken here, such as the need to introduce this issue into the educational sphere, but to whom it falls within the educational sphere. It seems that here ex novo we do not come anyone, but by the time we have brought this here, in Euskadi, the Department of Education of the Basque Government, together with the educational community, has been working on this for many years, both in the prevention of gender-based violence in schools and in concepts such as cyberbullying, peer abuse, prevention of this type of digital violence, etc., using school as a central and catalytic element to achieve a new model of society. Basically, we have to consider what kind of relations we want between men and women, between men and men, or between women and women, that is, between all that is society. Therefore, the role of the school is fundamental, a school that we want to be inclusive, mixed, relational, that is a school of values, that is not discriminatory, that is respectful, that is preventive, that is a school that educates in freedom and responsibility, that are the basic elements in which we have to work so that this is nothing more than something that has happened in the past, as long as new technologies are moving forward and we have more and more networks, more messaging systems, etc. Therefore, programmes such as Bizikasi, an action guide for the prevention of cyberbullying and gender-based violence in schools, or the report and planning to prevent peer abuse in schools, involve elements that are already being worked on in Basque schools for a long time and that I believe can serve as a positive experience to achieve that kind of society we want; a kind of society in which gender-based violence, both digital and in any other way, is eradicated and disappears from our sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u61	Thank you, President. Fernand Braudel, the historian of anals, told us that the historical time was very different from the physical and told us about historical time in the short, medium and long term. Certainly, with regard to the eradication of machismo, the eradication of the violence generated by machismo, we are talking about historical time in the long term. Finally, society realizes that this is not the short-term issue of a law, that it is not a short-term issue for families, but it is an issue that affects society as a whole, and in this society that we serve we have done enough, but it is still little. The truth is that, after the earthquake of the motion of censure and the future replicas that can occur during the first half of July with the presentation of concrete proposals, I do not understand very much, although it is logical, that in the midst of the mourning there appears an old PNL, a PNL that, being generous with Braudel, would be timeless, neither short, nor medium, nor long-term. A PNL of those who liked the former minister, Dolors Montserrat, and who came to say: We do well; go ahead, we will do better. This is something that doesn't touch now, but I understand the circumstances. I am left with the diagnosis of Ángeles Rodríguez, much more structured than the rapporteur has done. If we were to accept the compromise or the amendment of Podemos - in fact, we would be in another GNP - we would vote for it with a kind attitude, but, in order not to waste time, it is worth a dignified abstention, knowing that another has to be done - and it will be done - from other parameters. We have the average time, as Braudel said, and I've commented before. In autonomous communities and municipalities a lot of work has been done well, but we need to coordinate all that, we lack the protocols that allow us to work in the same direction, and the pact against violence is a good element that enables all administrations to work in this direction. I've been in education for many years and I've been in class with guys who have sexist elements, but when I called someone's father he told me that the boy wasn't that bad. It is true that the school is very important, but it cannot do everything unless there is a social and political context that goes in this direction, and, let us not be fooled, in these years of the People's Party there have been very contradictory, enormously contradictory elements, when in school we wanted to give values. Many of us have been suspicious in Catalonia not only of what they say we are but also of giving values of equality. Let's hope the wind goes in another direction. It is always better to row with the tail wind, although many of us have rowed many times with the face wind. That's what we're on. We want courage for those who have caused an earthquake, but we want them to know that alliances can be broad if they are executive. We want real, possible and coordinated changes, and as it is now time for change, let's get to work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, President. They will allow me to make some clarifications before I come in to refer to this proposal that we are discussing. The first is Mrs Reyes, from Citizens, to ask you, please, to review the information you have, because the record of the initiative discussed earlier took place a week before La Manada's sentence; therefore, you did not tell the truth. I want you to know that you will never find in this group opportunism using the victims, so I ask you, please, to review your information because they are not correct. [[Applauds]] The same must be said for Mrs Alba, who has also referred to the orphan's pension initiative. This initiative was registered in this House months before the pact and then the Socialist Group brought those measures to the pact, in that order. It is important that we do not distort the truth. Mrs. Dueñas has used - because I have measured it - more time in her intervention to touch the government than to defend her proposal. That's what you care about violence against women. It has spent much more time attacking the Government than defending its initiative. [[Applauds]] Nevertheless, I would like to tell you that we are going to vote in favour of your non-law proposal. Now, let me tell you that this proposal is just a placebo: it doesn't hurt, but it doesn't bring anything. It remains short of the expectations that society has in this area and, of course, is far below the philosophy of the anti-violence pact. You, in what we have been in the legislature and in the ten months since the adoption of the Pact measures, have not promoted the reforms called for in this agreement and, much more serious, have been reeling over measures that do not require legal reforms or budget, which is inconceivable. This is due only to the neglect, the desidia, the lack of diligence that they usually have. And the most serious thing has been that you have been unable even to maintain the inheritance; for example, the inheritance of the 016 or that of the tracking devices, putting you into an agonistic situation and stipulating conditions that are reckless to guarantee a quality service. That has been done by the People's Party Government. Don't try to hold the government of Pedro Sánchez accountable now. That is by no means acceptable. The specifications are yours. You have created a situation that will put the victims at risk. It would be important for them to be aware of the gravity of this matter, and that is the responsibility of the People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] You are asking to promote systems that evaluate self-regulatory practices in order to eliminate harmful content. Look, a few days ago, for example, the Catalan Audiovisual Council reported thirteen Internet content to the public prosecutor's office inciting sexist violence. It brought the facts to the attention of the owner companies that hosted these contents and called for the immediate withdrawal of texts proposing, for example, the rape of women prior to intoxication in order to lose their volitional capacity. Good. How many state regulatory agencies have reported such content? None. Do you know why? You have prevented, for example, the setting up of an audiovisual council with the capacity to analyse whether the contents are adapted to the law or respect the rights of citizens. Since the adoption of the pact, they have not held a single meeting to study, for example, how to implement measure 37. You know what average 37 says? It calls for the coordination and cooperation of the State Security Forces and Bodies, telecommunication companies and major providers of digital content to eliminate potentially harmful references that promote violence against women. Why haven't you met them? We do not expect much from you, indeed, but those threats you are making about the calvary you intend to subject the Government to are not really an obstacle to making life impossible for the victims, because you already have us used to these issues. We hope that they will be consistent with your proposal today and that they will not boycott our amendments to the law on digital rights guarantees, particularly the additional provision that seeks to guarantee the rights and security of minors and to combat violence against children exercised through new technologies. We would have liked the PP's first contribution in this area to have been more concrete, to have included, for example, practical considerations to combat the conduct of control, harassment and violence in the networks, but the truth is that we are not going to ask them in the opposition for what as a government they have been unable to push forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to oppose your placebo, although I believe that you are aware that the hopes of Spanish society are in the commitment of President Sánchez, who will undoubtedly bet decisively and diligently on making the pact a reality. I'm done. We know that you leave a flood of disasters, a flood of administrative disasters in vital security services, such as 016 or the tracking devices. I really believe, Mrs Alba, that there must be little shame in trying to hold the government accountable for the administrative disasters that you yourself have caused. We are not going to oppose your proposal, but we are going to ask you for State responsibility so that you do not obstruct the enormous task that the Government has before it to recompose, among other things, its indisguise with regard to the safety of the victims. It would be desirable for them to help, as we did in the pact...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u63	You've got to wrap it up now. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: I am finished, President. ..., but what is certainly required of them is that they are not an obstacle in the fight against machismo. I think he's going to thank the whole of Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Dueñas Martínez whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u65	We are working on a compromise amendment proposal that we will bring to the Bureau as soon as it is finally closed. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u66	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America can, in common, develop the care sector as a policy of employment, economic, social and equal priority. [[File number 162/000622]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u67	We move on to the debate on the following agenda item: No legislative proposal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the development of the care sector as a policy of employment, economic, social recovery and priority equality. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor to present the initiative and the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u68	Good afternoon. The other day, speaking of feminism, a colleague praised the figure of women, because - this is very beautiful - it is women who lead the sustainability of life. Write Dolors Coma: 'Care is essential for the maintenance of life and social reproduction and, therefore, is nothing marginal. There is no productive system or society that can exist without life reproducing and sustaining itself. People get sick, they get old, they get hurt, they die and, before that, they have to be born. All this requires the satisfaction of daily needs, such as food, clothing, shelter, assistance in case of illness or dependence, and also requires replacement: procreation.' This is what Coma calls the 'economy of affection', and uses this term for two reasons: 'because they have economic value and also because they save public spending when it is the family that makes them'. [[what is apparent when it is made by the market or the State]] I'm gonna propose a jump now. I want to highlight an image from last March 8th. [[Show an image]] The balconies were filled with aprons, because there was a care strike; the balconies and the statues of the lords. In Xixon, from Julio César to Manolo Preciado, they wore an apron. The public space was then permeated by private space, contaminating the visible with the invisible, what is not seen, what is not shown, what sustains life, which is very beautiful and very important but which seems that at the time of truth does not matter. Mari Angeles Durán says, 'Care is a great devourer of time.' How long do people spend caring for those who need it: our creatures, our elderly people, who are in a situation of dependence? How long do women spend? What about the men? If they're trying to make a balance in their heads, don't worry, I'll figure it out. 83% of care work - 83% - is done by women. It is undervalued, little or nothing remunerated, physically and psychologically hard work and generally assumed by women who care for a relationship based on family ties, non-commercial, within the invisible framework of the household, or by paid women - yes - in a precarious way, mostly migrant women from impoverished countries and many of them in an irregular administrative situation. It is important to face that one of the two major crises that we have is that of care right now; the other is the ecological crisis and, moreover, they do not doubt that they are given enough hand for its causes and its effects. It is true that the Spanish population over eighty years old, which in 1991 did not reach one and a half million, amounted in 2017 to more than two and a half million inhabitants. The evolution of the demographic pyramid makes it possible to see that in the coming decades care needs, especially of older people, are going to increase. According to the OECD, in 2050 Spain will be the third country in the world, behind Korea and Japan, that will require care and that will have a population over eighty years that will represent 15% of the total - currently it is 5.5-. We do not think, like Christine Lagarde, that people have the bad habit of living longer and that older people are too committed to living longer, as if this were a nuisance; we want to ensure that those lives will be worthy at all times, that they will be lives worthy of being lived. And we know that gender roles are tense, and they are tense because feminism has opened the macho closure of the vital possibilities and also of the diversity of families, of life projects that allow us to be happy. In that tension we are and that tension we want it to lead us to break the sexual division of labour. Moreover, it is a matter of institutional responsibility, because we have also been led to this care crisis in a very significant way by the decline in the benefits and services of the Dependency Act and the lack of centrality of care in social policies, as well as the progressive general dismantling of public welfare systems. Why do we say it's a crisis? Because we have to take care of it and, as with what costs money, it is very convenient for families to take care of it. Re-familying care means that women - because there is a pay gap and a glass ceiling - are forced to come home with a broken leg because it is up to them to take care of those who need it. It is unacceptable in a democracy a tension that implies a clash between women's rights and the right that everyone has to be cared for, especially when assuming from our public policies a reorganization of care generates employment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know the job that would have been generated if the so-called Dependency Act had been put into effect between 2010 and 2015? I tell you, more than 635 000 jobs would have been created. [[Applauds]] It would have been great news for unemployment, but so much or more for the more than 100,000 people who died waiting for some kind of help that had been given to them. It turns out that implementing feminist policies is good for our lives and is good for our economy as well. Therefore, because it is urgent, we present a battery of measures that we think serve to reorganize care and that take the mandate that women gave us on the historic day of March 8. I'm going to highlight some very quickly. We are talking about the need for equal maternity and paternity leave, 100 per cent paid and non-transferable, and we are doing this both to work on equal terms and, above all, more importantly, to care on equal terms. As this is a proposal for a very broad consensus in our society, we trust that when we bring it to this House it will also be approved with the joy that it produces to adopt measures that serve the advancement of society as a whole. In addition, we want to universalize the right of all people to have full functional autonomy provided by public care services. I'm going to go a lot faster now. We want to recover the social security contributions for caregivers in the family environment; we want to recognize the full labour rights of female domestic workers, equipping them with the other persons employed on behalf of others; we also want thirty-five hours a week and a zero-to-three education that is public, free and universal, not only so that we can reconcile, but also so that our children and our children grow in community and have an education system consistent with the ages of zero to three. [[applause]] Finally, because I have run out of time, I insist that this House has a precious mandate - and here I look at the Socialist Group bench and the government bench - that we were given on 8 March so that we can develop decent lives. We have enough theoretical, academic and political infrastructure to do so. There are many feminists who have been thinking about the economy from elsewhere and who have shown us that in the economy there is no need to speak incomprehensible language, as if it were a stagnant issue, away from equality and social progress. What we have been taught, precisely, is that the feminist economy has nothing to do with men and women, it has to do with society as a whole and with which we can have lives on the axis of politics. I therefore trust that this measure will be approved in the House with great joy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Campuzano i Canades is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are naturally grateful for this non-legislative proposal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We fully agree with the substantive issue raised by his spokesman, which has to do primarily with the need to ensure care services through the implementation of a policy of employment generation. I just want to remind you that at the origin of the Dependency Act, in our view, there have been two defects that have dragged forward over the years. First, a competitive defect, because, as you know, the competences in social services belong to the autonomous communities; some groups had a dispute with the Government in this area and, in addition, the development of the Dependency Act has shown that where policies reside is in the autonomic sphere. Another flaw has to do with the concern of his lordship, which is that the law never contemplated sufficient funding to trigger the deployment of all the services and services contemplated in it. With the onset of the crisis, the capacity to develop the Dependency Act was what we all know. At present, in full economic recovery, it should be seen whether it is the Government's priority to increase resources to deploy the Dependency Act in terms of benefits and services. There we should resume one of the debates that was forgotten at the time, which is how we finance this policy, and I would like to remind you that there are two countries with more capacity than the Spanish State, France and Germany, which when they launched these policies decided to establish compulsory insurance systems; in the case, German, linking it to the social security system, and in the case of French, linking it with a special contribution from income tax to finance these policies. It is a pending debate, because if we do not address this discussion, I think the rest have a voluntary point of view. Let us see if the new Government can overcome the limits that exist, but our impression is that without addressing that discussion we remain in voluntarism. Our group has tabled some partial amendments to its initiative. Firstly, we are in favour of part of this job being public, but we also believe that part of this job will be provided on the initiative of non-profit organisations and, in some sectors, private companies. Therefore, effective implementation of the Dependency Act should include collaboration with the private sector, both on a social initiative and on a commercial basis; in fact, the Dependency Act already provided for this possibility. Secondly, from our point of view, any allocation of working time must be the result of the agreement between the social partners, which is why our amendment calls for an agreement between workers' representatives and employers' representatives. In addition, you include in your initiative some references to the need to expand the rights of employed persons in the home; in that we would agree. At this new stage of this parliamentary term we will, for example, have the possibility of ratifying the ILO Convention affecting this group, but our amendment reminds you that this recognition of rights must include the special characteristics of working in a private house, which is not the same as working in an office, in a factory, in a hospital or in a residence. It has special characteristics, and hence our amendment. Finally, in this broad view of care, beyond the issues of care for dependency, your honor also speaks - and we think it is appropriate - of the recognition of the universal right to education for children. Our amendment aims to remind you that any aspiration to ensure this universality of the education system for zero years requires resources for the Autonomous Communities, because without these resources the Autonomous Communities, which are the competent ones, cannot develop it. I remind you that in the current autonomous funding education is guaranteed from six years on and that from three to six years is not guaranteed, and also that in education from three to six - which in Spain is almost universal - during the phase of the People's Party some of the plans that were put in place disappeared, weakening this coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, if you accept the amendments we have tabled to you, you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Pick it up on. We agree with the approach taken on the subject in question and, in further detail, we would point out that there has been a clear practical repeal of the Dependency Act due to the brutal cuts it has experienced in recent years and that it has been deprived of the resources necessary for its development. This has meant that, to a large extent, their partial development has had to be assumed by the Autonomous Communities and that, depending on the importance and resources allocated to it, the coverage has been very different depending on the place; all this, of course, has been done without receiving any extra resources. Euskal Herria Bildu has been advocating the need for the public to respond to the growing needs of care in an appropriate and sufficient way, with measures such as those proposed and around those we have been working on in Euskal Herria, such as equal labour rights for domestic workers, non-transferable maternity and paternity permits, contributions from caregivers in the family environment, universal right to free education and a long time and so on. As we have argued on other occasions in this House, in the search for equality, it is urgent to overcome the sexual division of labour, historically determined by unequal gender relations that go through both the public and the production and the private sphere of reproduction. Actions such as those proposed are necessary to put an end to a system that considers the domestic sphere, invisible and unvalued, the privileged place of women, and the market, the only one that is valued and visible, that of men. In Euskal Herria, dealing with all this problem with guarantees of improvement requires, in our view, the full transfer of competences relating to the subjects on which action should be taken. We will, of course, continue to call for them as the only guarantee of real margin today to move forward, while, of course, we will continue to contribute with our support to changing the decisions that must also be taken here in Madrid. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. This GNP speaks of very important things, of things as important as dependence, as equal and non-transferable permits or as universal education from zero to three years; it speaks of feminization of the economy, but it also speaks of rescuing people. So far, in the People's Party government, the GNP went directly to the paper destroyer, along with the invoices in B; let us hope that this government will also differ from its predecessors and apply the GNP, at least those approved in this House. And they will allow me, since we are talking about all this, to welcome Minister Carmen Montón, the Minister of Health, Consumer and Social Welfare, Valencian, and to take advantage to remind her of some of the things that she herself defended from the Government of Botànic and that we hope that also here in Madrid will continue to defend. Compromise will be here to claim Valencian interests also with the Socialist Party government. The Government of Botànic has assumed the cost of the pharmaceutical co-op for dependent people - among others - which will cost more than EUR 50 million in 2018; it has assumed the expenditure of dependency, even that which the Government had to assume, which was assuming around 13% when it had to assume 50% of the cost; it has considerably reduced waiting lists; it has created new jobs in the sector; it is creating classrooms of two to three years; it is rescuing people and, as the minister knows, despite insufficient funding, despite contributing to the state as if we were a wealthy autonomous community, when we are far below the gross domestic product, and despite systematic ill-treatment. In the Valencia Country we have decided to rescue people, and if the minister fulfills her word, with the word she said yesterday in the transfer of powers - which would be an ally for Valencian citizenship -, if it is as belligerent from the Government of Madrid as it has been as a Councillor, of course it will have us at her side. We hope that from here he claims all those things we need in the Valencia Country, all those things we need to rescue people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a citizen who sees himself as such deserves care. Care banishes insecurity, provides confidence and, best of all, realizes the true sense of politics. This I am not saying, but Leonardo Boff, well read by some of you, who states that the welfare society is not possible without the ethics and policy of care. Obviating the policy of care, disregarding it, undervaluing it or circumscribing it to the sphere of the space of the private and the feminine is an absolute irresponsibility. Despite what the right has thought for a long time, care needs political attention. In Citizens we have it very clearly: the value that is given to care policies is the value that a society gives to human beings. That is why in the initial amendment that we have tabled we say that, since they want to make a constitutional reform, the first thing the Socialist Government should do is to include attention to dependence as a fundamental right and to do so in such a way as to ensure that there are no inequalities according to the territory in which one lives, because there is no right to have access to different services to care for dependence if one is born in Navarre or in Valencia. This has to be solved. That said, progress that we fully agree with the proposing group of this proposal in which policy-making to ensure care is, first, a gender justice issue; secondly, an investment and, thirdly, a bet to prioritize key in the economy. If we don't do it like this, we're missing a huge opportunity. Now, coinciding with the basic philosophy, I have to tell you, gentlemen of Podemos, that we disagree quite in the forms. What you present today, with all my respect, is a kind of Macedonian. They mix proposals related to education, motherhood and labour reforms. Come on, your GNP has more mixing and approaches than points in the entire government program that Mr Pedro Sánchez presented two weeks ago, which in another sense is also not difficult. [[applause]] Let's go in parts. They begin with an initial assertion that investment in public resources in dependency needs to be expanded exponentially. So far, we completely agree. In fact, when we have been able to influence budgets, we have managed to increase the amount allocated to dependency. What we disagree with is a bad interpretation that you do. Not by much repeating a lie becomes a truth, and I'm going to explain why. In relation to the Dependency Act, they say that the State has to finance 50% of the investment. I will read to you stricto sensu what says in article 32 of this law: The contribution of the autonomous community will be for each year at least equal to that of the General Administration of the State. This means that the autonomous communities have to put at least what the state puts in, which does not mean that they can put in much more. I'm not saying we don't have to change this. I am not saying that we should not change it, but, if we are to do so, we must introduce an amendment to the law of the Socialist Party Government, which we have done. What we do agree is that funding for the dependency system is absolutely inadequate. Moreover, it is very unfair and not fair, because - I insist - depending on the autonomous community in which you are, you invest more or less, and this has to be solved. They ask to recover social security contributions for caregivers. We totally agree. It was one of the points that we signed in the investiture agreement with the Socialist Party and we are going to keep an eye on them so that they can do it because the People's Party has not done it. They identify the need to ensure a sufficient number of care professionals in coordination with the National Health System. We agree, but we have added something else. We also plan to implement, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, a specific national training plan on palliative care and care for dependency. So far, pretty good. The thing turns when you come in to raise a number of issues related to the work regime of home workers. The PDECAT spokesman has already mentioned this earlier, but the fact is that we have made an amendment to them because I do not know if they know that there has been a mandate for more than six years and, if domestic workers have to have the same rights as workers in general, what needs to be done is to force the current Government, the PSOE Government, to comply with the second additional provision of the 2011 ipso facto decree. It is clear that the People's Party has not done so, but the Socialist Party should do so in the voice of now. In this respect, what we are proposing in the amendment is a reform in line with what has been done in France, a reform that has managed to generate more than half a million jobs. Finally, I would like to say that they mention two issues on which we are not suspected of not having worked. First, the equalization of paternity permits. If there is a party that has managed to increase paternity leave in two weeks from the negotiation of budgets has been Citizens, but a realistic policy must be made. You proposed last week to do so already and of a stroke with an increase of more than 2 billion and also using extraordinary items of the budgets. What needs to be done is politics and you don't suffocate. Secondly, the universalization of education from zero to three years. You have to be realistic. Welcome to the idea, but I'll give you a piece of advice: don't put ideology on the table or try to exclude any alternative system because, otherwise, it won't come. I'm gonna end up doing some thinking. The ethics of care have to do with real situations, as real as the needs of others. Citizen care policies must offer realistic solutions to real needs. Everything else is demagogy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, there is no doubt that this debate is also affected by the impact of the cuts resulting from Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of the finalist transfers in the area of dependency provided for by Law 39/2006, since it has been the autonomous communities that have had to assume financial attention to the situation of dependency, an issue that has worsened with the crisis. To the same extent, it is also true that not only the greatest effort of the Autonomous Communities is that which determines the characteristics, viability and configuration of the system of dependency and, therefore, of the system of care for people. To speak of taking the care sector as an opportunity, as led by the GNP, it is also necessary to attend to the greater or lesser degree of commitment to the obligations arising from Law 39/2006. Since the catalogue of this law is very broad, its degree of implementation is very different according to the autonomous communities and the territories, as a result of which they are the competences of the autonomous communities themselves according to the provisions of article 148.1.20 of the Constitution. Let us remember that this action by the State took place under article 149.1.1 and as a guarantee of equality in the exercise of constitutional rights and duties, although the design of these guarantees and duties should be complemented by those introduced by the autonomous communities under their own rules. It is in this context that the PNL aims to make a kind of table of situations differentiated from realities, competences and public policies of the different autonomous communities, as if they were comparable situations in their degree of material execution. Therefore, we do not feel identified with some of its requirements or with the context of mixing different subjects, different legal titles and different proposals as if it were a homogeneous issue. That is exactly what happens with this GNP, which is also presented to us with a operative part which we believe is far removed from some of its previous reflections, since it introduces issues that are not initially linked to the purpose of the GNP. And I'm going to make it more concrete. We feel identified because even the explanatory statement makes some mistake; first, because it qualifies the activity of caring for people as an investment area and we know that what it means is in terms of social investment, a term that represents us much better. We also want to understand that what I wanted to say is that it can be an area of economic and employment opportunities, and we will agree completely on that. We also think that when we talk about hiring care personnel linked to territorial health services and in coordination with the autonomous communities again there is a regrettable confusion, but in this case of greater silence, because we imagine that in view of the sharing of competences, also in the field of health, what we should talk about is hiring care personnel from the social services, which are the ones that should be coordinated with health professionals. On the operative part of the GNP, I must express our agreement with some issues and our disagreement with others. It is logical in its subparagraph (a), that the State Administration is urged to recover the commitment provided for in articles 9 and 32 of Law 39/2006, and that of subparagraph (b) may also be acceptable insofar as it entails compliance with the guarantees provided for in articles 3 and 4 of the same legal text. We can share that of subparagraph (d), although we believe that it is inaccurate, and that of subparagraph (g), as regards the eradication of fraud, which we believe is so generic that it could be applicable to any sector. Others, those in subparagraphs (i), (j) and (k), seem to us to be simply incursions into aspects that are forcibly connected with the purpose of GNP, since they are typical of other types of debate, that of birth permits or adoption with conciliation, that of child education with the educational model of each territory - indeed, in Euskadi this right is already recognized - and that of child benefits under the Toledo Pact and the benefits of the social security system. Others seem to us to be wrong, such as paragraph (c), in that it calls for the guarantee of a public staff of professionals, as if in the existing one - at least in the field of social services in Euskadi - they were not professionals, when they are. In the same vein, we believe that they do not respond to the situations of the Euskadi care system under subparagraphs (e) and (f). With this PNL we happen what with so many others in which we have also made the same stain to different political formations and have always insisted on the same idea, we do not like the party programmatic documents that are presented to us in the form of a non-law proposal. This is therefore a condition of the sense of our vote, which must be negative because, in addition to the objections raised, we believe that it has a confusing wording which we believe does not respond to a particular task, which is the impetus of a specific policy in a particular direction and of a particular Government, which is also difficult to appreciate at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u80	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. We are presented with a non-legislative proposal regarding the development of the colloquially called Dependency Law, focused mainly on the unemployment aspect. It is presented as a measure that, apart from being necessary, can contribute to economic, social and gender equality recovery. The reality is undeniable, there is an objective social need, recognized and neglected with the tasks of caring for people and at the same time there is and will be more dependent people to some extent, and this is cause for joy because people live longer years and the pretension is that they can live longer and better years. The challenge for our societies is to live more years together with higher quality of life. In the Kingdom of Spain, the population over sixty-five years of age will account for 30% by 2050, almost 18% of the population is over sixty-five years of age and 25% of these are eight-year-olds. The Dependency Act was born for the purpose of building a new leg of the welfare state, but, as the proposer says, it is a law that must be developed. We start from the will to include the universal right of everyone to have the necessary services for a dignified and independent life or reasonably independent or as dependent as that of anyone else. It is clear that this debate must continue far beyond a simple non-legislative proposal, but it is right to start it and it is essential to do so. Firstly, I would say that there is an urgent need for a stronger public bet to train staff to assist the unit and to train professionals, because 80% of them are not. Secondly, this type of professional must be provided with decent working conditions and must cover the high demand in the sector, with guarantees for the dependent person. This is about social justice, because this sector is very precarious. It is essential to improve the current working conditions of people working in such care, especially women in their own families, non-professionals or precarious professionals from other countries, who often work in the submerged economy. It is essential - therefore we value this proposal - to end what happens in many cases, that women assume a dual situation of precariousness, in the labour market and in the role of informal caregiver in the family. We are very pleased that the non-law proposal calls for the recovery of social security contributions for these caregivers in the family, mostly women, and that they have a decent pension. But we note with concern some important gaps, which need to be addressed. The Government of the State does not fulfil its obligation to finance 50% of the costs of the Dependency Act in the Autonomous Communities. In Catalonia, in particular, what the State invests in dependence does not reach 17%, when it should be 50%. We therefore welcome the requirement to fulfil the obligation under the Dependency Act to assume 50% of the State's dependency costs. It is also worrying that the GNP forgets that the issue dealt with is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities, and that must be taken into account if we believe in the issue of the Autonomous Communities. It is also obvious that the best attention to dependence requires the assistance and involvement of the local authorities, on which the ownership of social welfare services lies - we have been overlooked, or I have not been able to see it - that we have to invest more in real programs of prevention, support and registration to the caregiver, whose health often deteriorates in an intangible way due to the overload of work. Further progress needs to be made in integrated, social and health care. All this must be done in the development of the law. In short, the rapporteur's intention of the proposal is good and we will vote in favour of it, despite these shortcomings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with hope recovered. In a few days this country has taught a lesson in democracy and dignity. After the motion of censure, the clean and fresh air we needed has been returned to the public. I wish the new Government the best of luck. As far as their preparation, effort, honesty and desire are concerned, there is plenty left. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the reality left to us by the PP and the adversities government, today, as Benedetti, I would like to defend joy, as did the proposer at the end of her speech, the joy for the certainty of having a government that has as a priority to improve the lives of people and, in particular, that of the most vulnerable groups; joy, moreover, because in this first plenary that we are celebrating with the Socialist Government we are going to talk about care and dependence. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos for bringing this subject here. And as we are congratulating, welcome, Mrs Martín, welcome Citizens, as I see that they believe that the Constitution needs to be amended and, in addition, that social rights should be included in it. [[Applauds]] Nice to meet you on this road. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2006, with the Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons Act, in which I had the honour to participate, a socialist government recognized the universal right for the entire population and with public guarantee. The implementation of the system was an advance in social protection that gave hundreds of thousands of families a further reason for hope, and made Spain and the Spaniards and citizens a better, more dignified, more humane country. The law was developed until the end of 2011, but in December of that year Mariano Rajoy's arrival in power meant his paralysis and retreat, and thus the destruction of the hopes of all those women of whom all the spokesmen and spokesmen, of all those families and of all those people in need have spoken here. A week after his arrival in power, he prevented nearly four hundred thousand people with moderate dependence from gaining access to a right they already had. Only six months later was the second and demolishing attack going to take place; another royal decree reduced the minimum level of protection, cut economic protection for care in the family environment; eliminated social security contributions from non-professional caregivers; revised the calendar again downwards; introduced incompatibility between the various services and services; increased co-payment; and finally, what about the State General Budgets that ended the demolition of the law with the reduction of the minimum level and the elimination of the agreed level. It's been six and a half or seven years of suffering. The situation to which the right-wing Government has brought us is extremely serious. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three hundred thousand people on the waiting list with recognized rights who are not receiving services or services. On average, 100 people die every day without receiving the benefit or service they have recognized. More than one hundred and eighty thousand non-professional caregivers, almost all women, were left without discharge in Social Security by the decision of the right-wing government. During these hard years, the political forces and social organizations of the opposition have been denouncing that the Government's abandonment of dependent people, the lack of real commitment to equality, the deterioration and paralysis of education from zero to three years, which was one of the key projects of the former socialist Government, and the lack of reconciliation policies was a clear sign of social insensitivity and the dismantling of the welfare state in our country. Just two months ago, all the groups in this House, except the People's Group, adopted a socialist initiative to make possible the pact of state signed by all the groups in this House, except the People's Group, with civil society and with social organizations in defense of care and in defense of the Law of Dependence. I end by quoting - as the proposer has also done - a pioneer teacher among us creating awareness and investigating the use of the times and the economy of care, my landscape, the Medal of Extremadura, María Ángeles Durán: There are only two social classes that are defined around care; on the one hand, waged caregivers and, on the other, unpaid caregivers. 90% of the sum of these two are women, we are women, but they are above all women who do not have social security and for whom poverty, dependence and marginalization in the future are guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy and hopeful today because this Government is well aware of the importance of interpreting the work of care not only as a productive activity, but also as a just and fundamental activity to prevent that black future and to rebuild a future of equality for citizens, for all Spaniards. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Parliamentary Group We can bring to debate this afternoon an initiative on the development of the care sector as a policy of employment, social economic recovery and priority equality. This, combined with the repeated occasions that in the body of the explanatory statement of his initiative alludes to the crisis, to job insecurity, to real and effective inequalities, has made the People's Parliamentary Group have had a déjà vu. You have returned us to 2011, at the same time as the fruits of the policies of the Socialist Group and its President Zapatero. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u85	Wait a minute, Mrs. Navarro. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u86	Today, President Zapatero is rabidly present, because until a few days ago the spokesman of the Socialist Group, and today the Minister of Defence, pointed out as inspiring principles of this new government that moves Zapatero's policies forward. So, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, we should remind you of those socialist policies: 3.5 million unemployed, of whom 1.5 million were women. The greatest inequality that can be maintained in this area is 1.5 million women in unemployment. [[Applauds]] The wage gap between men and women grew by 16% and zero euros for caregivers of their dependent family members. Zero euros. The royal decree of hardening of the assessment of the degree of dependence came from the hands of the socialist government and the press headlines of that time were nothing flattering. Do you know what El País said, his headline press? That the Dependency Act was paralyzed, that it lacked control, that it lacked money. In short, chaos. And, paradoxes of democracy, with this initiative you are also urging today, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, a socialist government; a government which you have taken with your favourable vote in search of a portfolio. In any case, it is not that this People's Parliamentary Group regrets it, but you have remained composed and without ministry. Assume it, they are in the opposition for as long as the Socialist Group tells them today that it will vote in favour of their initiatives. Of course, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote no to the pretensions of the small number of its initiative for responsibility and consistency. The People's Parliamentary Group will always think the same, whether we are a government because it is what the citizens want in the ballot box, or we are opposed because a pact of losers, among whom you are, has wanted it. [[Applauds]] We cannot be accomplices to the policies with which we would again destroy employment or generate poverty, spend more and impact the spending on which it has less, because that is precisely what generates inequality. And, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote not because the People's Party cares about people. Our commitment yesterday, today and always will be out there with the citizens, with a marked vocation of public service and always ensuring the general interest, as we have always done. Since the first day of the People's Party government and our President Rajoy, the priority has been the welfare society, especially dependence, and we will prove it to you. We paid your debts, 1034 million euros in social security contributions from family caregivers that you left to owe. We believe in the professional and quality care of the dependents, so today there are 500 000 people affiliated with Social Security in the sector of the dependency, 15 900 in the month of April 2018 have been discharged into the social security system and we have a record figure: 1,385,000 benefits according to our dependents. If someone bet on the figure of the personal assistant, it was precisely the People's Party. Do you know which autonomous communities are leading this benefit today? Galicia and Castile and León, where the People's Party governs, which is no coincidence. [[Applauds]] The People's Party Government has invested EUR 19 billion in dependency, twice what the Socialist Government invested. We have lowered VAT on services such as seniors' homes, day centres and tele-assistance, because it is fair to those dependents who need it and because it is an essential service that will also have an impact on job creation. President Rajoy placed the dependency on his political agenda, commissioning an analysis of his situation, sustainability and funding and whose conclusions have been ratified by all the autonomous communities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you should reiterate these claims in the autonomous parliaments where they are represented, as is the case with Andalusia and Castile-La Mancha, communities that the Unit Observatory puts in line with the management of the unit. Precisely in Castilla-La Mancha, where his colleagues from Podemos ran better luck and a president whose name I don't want to remember had to claudicate with a vice-president and a councillor, neither have they done anything. Let this House know: they are accomplices of the 16,000 people who are in Castile-La Mancha waiting to be valued and of the more than 3000 care benefits in the family environment that the socialist government has cut. [[Applauds]] In another matter, the State covenants are reached in this House, where national sovereignty resides. To the socialist lordship I will say that you like the pacts of state where you have your palm trees, those who tell you how good and beautiful you are. Well, no, the state pacts are centered here. And you know what they've done? The response to the state pacts of both the Lords of Podemos and the Lords of the Socialist Group has been that of the frightened, because their partisan interests can outweigh the general interest of the citizens who are out there on the street. We will reach out to them to speak in those state covenants because here there is a vocation for dialogue and agreement. I will simply finish now, President, with a sentence from my President Rajoy: We leave a better Spain than we find. On behalf of my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, we are in no way going to let them undo the path we have already taken. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Fernández Castañón whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u88	Yeah, we're gonna make a deal with the PDECAT proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u89	All right, thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u90	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the living and working conditions of the temporary and temporary members of the agricultural campaigns in Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Cañamero Valle has the floor. [[Rumors]] I would beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen, before the speaker begins.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u91	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On May 30 I made an inquiry to which until a few days ago was Minister Báñez, where I raised the general situation that exists in the rural environment of the workers not only in Andalusia or Extremadura - we always talk about the PER there - but also in the rest of the Spanish state and we were appreciating that desperate situation. I hope again - there is not here the new minister, Magdalena Valerio, who is from a site of Extremadura with quite a lot of newspapermen and an important situation of eventualism - that we agree on some of the things that we have defended here regarding the newspapermen in Extremadura, Andalusia and the rest of the Spanish state. Contingency needs to be addressed. In the Spanish state there are 1,200 000 workers and, as I said last time, there are ten provinces where excessive labour is accumulated, whether in Murcia, or Almería, or Valencia, or Jaén or Huelva. There is a labour force that wanders from place to place looking for work. There is no contract in the field, there is no connection between the casual worker and the company: they call you and the next day they fire you; you spend five days, they fire you and you have no right to anything, absolutely nothing. That's the chance. But this is a situation that is causing social alarm because the provincial agreements are not being complied with anywhere - not in Murcia, Andalusia or anywhere else - because there is a surplus of labour in agriculture and there is no democratic control to prevent this situation, at least until this House adopts rules in this regard. I mean, in the orange they start in the morning and it's seven o'clock in the afternoon and even with the light of the truck they're loading the orange boxes. And if you go to the strawberry to Huelva you find yourself exactly the same, throwing ten, twelve and fourteen hours. And if you're going somewhere else, let's do the same. There is no democratic control. They just sent me a picture of Jaén picking garlic where people get to 27 euros picking garlic. Why? Because the ETTs, the service companies, hire garlic in the field, hire people, and I've even seen whole families taking garlic, with their school children, under an umbrella, because it was Saturday or Sunday, they didn't have school and the family brings them to them. And they tell me: it's that among all of us we can achieve a hundred euros peak. That is happening in the countryside everywhere, and it is necessary to correct that by dignity, by coherence, by norm, by ethics, by human rights. We have to correct that. This morning some deputy from Huelva - Carmelo, who is mayor of Palos, has spoken here, if I remember correctly, since 1995, and deputy - and the minister, saying that when I speak and generalize in Huelva I am lying. The truth is, I don't usually lie, you know, Carmelo, we've known each other for a long time. What I have described in Huelva you know as I do because you in your own village have a settlement of emigrants and you know perfectly well the reality, how painful it must be for you to have that in your village, 200 people without papers, irregularly and even working, earning 20 or 25 euros, what companies want to give them. That's in your town and it's also in Las Madres and Lucena del Puerto and all over that area, because you and I know this reality. And if not, I am making a proposal here: I invite a committee of parliamentarians from the various political parties to visit the milling fields and see among all what happens in those places and what needs to be abolished, because we are in the 21st century, because we are in Europe, because that is a shame, because even Carmelo - I am addressing you as a partner - will harm us all, because the day Europe starts cutting down on the sale of strawberry in Huelva will not be because we have made a complaint or denounced what is happening there, it will be because we are not doing well the duties, and we all know what is happening in the strawberry in Huelva. [[applause]] When I tell you, for example, about Huelva, there are 45 000 women hired in Huelva - 35 000 from Ukraine, Belarus, Bulgaria and Morocco recently, 15 000 from Morocco - who come almost all from Eastern Europe. That reality is there, and even the contracts originating in Morocco tell them that they have to be between eighteen or twenty and forty and five years old and they have to have family burdens so that afterwards women have that responsibility to go back there. Well, two days ago I was there at a company visiting 500 women workers. By chance, I got into the company, they let me in. In workhouses there were modules of six or eight women living in that shed, and in another one hundred square metres, twelve women had to make food. One with eight and one with twelve. That is, twenty people for two work modules. And so up to 500. They charged 3 euros per day to the people, and 3 euros per day for 500 is 1500 euros that the company charged to these workers. If they take 90 days, we are talking about holding 135 000 euros of those people, who are overcrowded, and in front of me - this I say here - and in front of the sergeant of the Civil Guard they began to denounce the sexual harassment that existed in that company. My soul fell to me. They went to denounce El Rocío alone, ten people who have denounced that reality, but that reality is happening in many places. I don't say all the entrepreneurs, Carmelo, no, there are very worthy, very healthy and very decent entrepreneurs who do things right, but that is very widespread, and if we go to Lepe settlements exactly the same. That is why it is necessary to put in place rules and the rules that I am going to put in place here are possible rules to put in place and, in addition, they are necessary to dignify people's lives, to respect human rights. Because we often talk about the rights of immigrants, but we see the corpses floating in El Estrecho; and when we talk about the right of a child we see that children are not respected; and when we talk about the rights of the environment we see how absolutely everything is contaminated, with the complicity of many people. We need to put an end to this, we need to put in place rules and the rules that I am going to put in place here are the following. First, the creation of a special corps of inspectors, who can go out daily to the field to visit the greenhouses, to visit the gangs, to visit the fields; not closed with chains but can visit them, where they have that capacity. Second, union elections. How can there be a million unrepresented workers in the countryside? Where is democracy? Where is the law of the laborers and the laborers, and of the tempers? Trade union elections. How? Provincial, for eventuals. Who votes? Those who have agricultural books, as well as agricultural chambers of farmers. They can vote provincially and the provincial delegate is a delegate working here, working in that company, working in Huelva or working elsewhere, just as Members of Parliament are everywhere. Therefore, so that they can intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u92	Mr. Cañamero, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u93	Third question. To encourage the creation of a state-level negotiating table to guarantee the minimum issue of housing. For example, in all contracts more than a hundred kilometres away from the workstation, housing is guaranteed. Fourth question: CAP aid. The CAP is a right that farmers have, but it comes with public money, European money, but we all finance, each state pays the share corresponding to the CAP - I am finishing, President -. That all farmers who do not comply with labour law can be sanctioned under the CAP. This happens as with the Public Administration, if you don't comply with it because you've applied for a grant, you won't apply for another grant because you're punished or you have to return the money.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u94	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Cañamero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u95	Fifth, to step up monitoring of the follow-up of TTEs and service companies, which have become mafias that run through the fields with groups of workers without any kind of control, buying the products of the field and do not correspond or pay agreements or comply with labour regulations. Highs and lows in the field must be made as in the general regime. If you get discharged today in the field, the next day if you want to quit you have to call Social Security, not like now that the highs and the lows are given in the field as the businessman wants. You get discharged and declare the actual pawns from 1 to 6 of the following month. No, like the rest of the workers. If you get discharged today, I have to call Social Security to discharge you, and I don't have a month's leave to discharge you or to discharge you again in Social Security. What do they do? That they don't sign any pawns to any worker; they don't sign any, they do what they want.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u96	Mr. Cañamero, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u97	Yeah, one second and I'm done. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u98	One second.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u99	It's true that it's seven minutes and I'd need a little more time, but good.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u100	Mr. Cañamero, you've been out of time for four minutes. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u101	We are trying, both with the Socialist Party and with Citizens and other groups, to reach a compromise to try to agree here on a mechanism that really benefits people's lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Cañamero. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u103	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Cañamero, I must tell you that I am amazed; every time I speak to you it amazes me and every time I hear you it amazes me more. Two weeks ago you told the minister that you were coming to try to solve the problems of the field workers and the truth, I have to tell you, is that you have put all your interest in trying to reach a compromise that allows the motion that you presented, that you had many shortcomings, to fight to improve the rights and the good work that our eventuals do in the Spanish field. What happens is that you don't differentiate between eventual and temporary. Possible are those workers - in fact, there are 1,200 000 - who work for more than two, three or four months with their contract and the temporary ones are those who work in a campaign. We mix concepts that are important in the field because according to what we are talking about we will be working in one sector or another. I will tell all your ladies and gentlemen that, of course, Citizens will always be faced with labour abuse, will always be faced with the exploitation of immigrant workers, will always be faced with the illegal transfer of workers, will always be faced with discrimination on grounds of sex and gender and practices of labour and sexual harassment, of course. Above all, we will be fighting and working to eliminate those settlements that exist not only in Huelva, but, unfortunately, throughout the national territory in which the minimum conditions of habitability and health are not met, so that new centres can be created that can accommodate potential workers who travel throughout the national territory and that can live in normal living conditions. We're going to work on that every day. That is why we have made him an offer of a transactional because, in fact, we do not envisage the creation of a special body for the inspection of labour in the field. No, we don't create new organs. Let us work and talk with the Labour Inspectors and Labour Subinspectors in each province. Each province has a problem and you have mentioned everything to Huelva and no, there are many more problems. One million temporary contracts are signed in my region, of which 700,000 are in the field, it is 20% of the total temporary contracts signed, when our field workers do not reach 3% of the total. You always transfer your personal experiences, what lives in Huelva, what lives in Seville..., and no, there are many differentiating characteristics depending on where you are, in Lleida, in the Valencian Community, in Murcia and even within Andalusia is different in Almería than in Huelva. That is why what needs to be done is to talk to the labour inspectors there and provide them with the necessary human resources and tools to do their job. They will improve by promoting policies such as inspection plans in order to avoid the disasters that are currently taking place in the countryside, not only in contracts or in the use of ETTs - which are already quite controlled, Mr Cañamero - but in the recruitment of illegal immigrants. Before I say no, they should be in the field. Before I come to talk here I've been in the field and I know what I'm saying. That's why it's important that before you talk to them go to the camp and see the situation, study it, be with them, talk to them and see what their needs are. That's what you do, Mr. Cañamero, and so do I, and you know it because we've talked about it. We also agree with the Socialist Party in promoting inspection plans with material resources; stepping up cooperation agreements with the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security in the fight against irregular employment and fraud; studying the modification of trade union electoral regulations - of course they do -; setting up a follow-up committee to the General Law on Social Security; opening a dialogue table - of course -; defending the salaries of the CAP before the Community institutions and, if possible, imposing sanctions on those who do not comply, of course they do. We will also work to eliminate the vehement treatment and macho violence in the Spanish countryside. We will work to eliminate it from all Spanish society and we will put all our efforts to eliminate the scourge of macho violence in the Spanish countryside. Finally, you are going to vote today against solidarity between the inhabitants of your autonomous community, specifically between the inhabitants of Huelva, which can generate new jobs and new pawns. Really, Mr. Cañamero, when you come here to defend the improvement of your economic resources you also have to think that perhaps that transfer can generate wealth and can generate jobs that eliminate that job insecurity in our land. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Garaulet. The Socialist Group has the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing I would like to do is to congratulate the new Government, especially for this commitment made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which demonstrates the sensitivity to defend workers' rights. And then I want to greet and recognize the work done by the agricultural workers, the temporary workers, the eventual ones and the fixed discontinuous ones, all of them. I would also like to acknowledge the work done by the State Security Forces and Bodies, which are monitoring our fields in rural Spain; I would like to greet, in particular, the members of the Civil Guard who are responsible for this surveillance in the countryside and in rural Spain, the agricultural entrepreneurs, all the professionals who make our agro-industry an important pillar of our economy, and many municipalities, their mayors, who are concerned and concerned about the fulfilment of labour rights in their municipalities and that workers have the best conditions in the agricultural sector as in any other sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an issue that concerns and occupies the Socialist Parliamentary Group a lot because defending the rights of workers and improving their conditions is in the DNA of our parliamentary group, and more so when we are talking about potential agricultural workers, who are more vulnerable and who have rather precarious conditions and sometimes scratching also in the exploitation and where the high sinisterity, unfortunately, is a constant. But we cannot generalise, and for that reason, Mr Cañamero, I would like to tell you that we share your concern and the need to address this existing problem. There are many occasions when you will have heard our group claim more and better rights for all the workers in the countryside because it is true that, as in any other field of work, also in the agricultural sector, profitability and competitiveness cannot be achieved at the expense of the dignity of employment. We must work from dialogue and consensus with the Government and economic and social actors. It is the responsibility of all to detect, denounce and eliminate the conditions of exploitation, precariousness and high sinestrality that affect potential agricultural workers in cases where they occur. Mr Cañamero, we must all work and, if we detect any cases of exploitation, we must denounce and resort to the instruments that give us the rules. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is also very concerned about the gender pay gap. According to official data from the ministry, women working in the countryside earn an average of up to 400 euros less than men, which is said soon. We must therefore also work in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore facing a situation that cannot wait any longer. We face with this debate a part of the reality of the Spanish countryside, a black and white photograph of that Spain that we should have left behind many decades ago. We must not allow any workers to have working conditions of the nineteenth century when we are in the twenty-first century. We must not allow it. [[Applauds]] And sharing that concern, Mr Cañamero, it would be unfair for us to remain in a partial analysis to throw away all the work of a productive and indispensable sector to understand the Spanish economy in general and Andalusia in particular. The agri-food sector now offers as never before decent and quality employment opportunities. Never like now companies are offering... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u106	Wait a minute, Mrs. Serrano, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Never like now are companies offering qualified jobs and decent conditions to help make the countryside a professionalised and competitive agricultural sector, never; and that is the way forward and everything that is not that professionalised sector, where workers' rights are respected, must be pursued. Mr Cañamero, you know that in this leadership that the Andalusian agro-industry has led in 2017 the national sales of agri-food products abroad, spraying the 11 billion euros, with an increase regarding the year 2016 of 9.2% and registering almost one out of every four euros exported by Spain. The number of Andalusian agri-food companies exporting abroad increased by 6,2 % last year. And I'm talking about Andalusia because I'm Andalusian, I'm Cordoba; but we could also talk about data from the agro-industry in Spain. The Andalusian agri-food complex demonstrates its competitiveness in the world by providing the trade balance with a positive balance of €6572 million in 2017, which represents 58% of the sector's national surplus. Your Honor, in the face of a sector with so many expectations ahead, there is not one more case of labour exploitation, not one! And it is not acceptable that good economic data should be translated into situations of helplessness and abandonment of workers; in illegal situations that we must certainly pursue and condemn with the law in hand, and we therefore appeal to dialogue, to law enforcement, to reason and to demand the Government, to the new Government of Spain, which will undoubtedly be more sensitive than the previous one, which has never listened to agricultural workers, to prospective workers or to temporary workers. Let us therefore appeal to this new Government and demand that it implement specific inspection plans in the agricultural sector, with effective material and personal resources, to develop the integration of the special agricultural regime into the general social security system, which addresses the analysis of the problems of high and low in the special agricultural regime. That the follow-up commission be set up, the one that never wanted to set up Minister Báñez and that forced the bonuses of the special agricultural regime...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u108	Mrs Serrano, you have to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u109	I finish, Mr President; I hope you will be as kind to me as you are to Mr Cañamero. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u110	It has to be concluded, it has the same time as the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u111	I'll be right out. That's why. To set up this monitoring committee, which envisages that the bonuses of the special agricultural regime for employers are aimed at promoting stable employment, protecting the rights of agricultural workers and ultimately dignified working conditions; to open up this social dialogue table, which is so demanded by the trade unions, so that there is a single framework agreement in Spain; to eradicate any irregular situation in our country. Because, I will tell you one thing, Mr Cañamero: employers and employers are the first to be interested in the absence of any irregular situation; they should be the first to be interested because they do not want - or should not want - their name, that of their products and that of their company to be missed.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u112	Mrs. Serrano, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u113	I'm done. The reality of the Andalusian countryside, like that of any work, but especially the countryside, to earn a living, is hard and you know it, Mr Cañamero. Men and women who work in the countryside know that. But now we have an opportunity: the opportunity to analyse it, to see the shortcomings that exist, to protect our agri-food sector, to protect our workers. Let us seize that opportunity and work together to improve the living conditions of our workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u114	Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the last few days the revictimization and paternalism that we have been able to see, hear and read in connection with the protests and complaints of Moroccan women, temporary strawberry workers in Huelva province, have reached unbearable levels. Spain seems to be surprised by events that have been happening for years and that have been reported for more than a decade: the conditions of women migrant workers, under situations of exploitation and exposed to multiple violence. In Spain there are currently almost 170,000 regulated temporary workers of foreign origin and among them there is an increasing percentage of women, with 70% coming from outside the European Union. Throughout the State, the group of temporary and temporary workers reaches 1,200 000 people and, whether migrant or not, we know that the conditions of precarious work in the field are extreme for the majority. For eight hours of work, a temp should charge around 60 euros, but in many cases it does not even reach 25. The problem that many times underlies in the field is that of illegal subcontracting, a practice that has been observed for many years and that has never come to an end and it is time for it to be done. There is the figure of the subcontractor or intermediary, a very comfortable practice in which the farmer sometimes does not know what it entails, because in many cases subcontracting is the door open to a brutal violation of workers' rights. The person who subcontracts is the one who pays the temp and here, as has already been shown, we see many cases of non-payment, of payment below the stipulated salary, of threats, of retention of documentation, of ill-treatment. That is why an effort must be made in the major agricultural campaigns to monitor the innumerable frauds and irregularities that are being committed, not only by farmers but also often also by ETTs working in the agricultural sector. It is therefore necessary to mobilize all the resources available by the public authorities to tackle the submerged economy, to fight against the mafia and to pursue fraud in recruitment and to put an end to the exploitation of labour, which, unfortunately, is in many cases, as we see, reaching conditions of almost slavery. And it is also of the utmost importance that in what remains of the legislature we address the development of Law 28/2011, on the integration of agricultural workers on behalf of others into the general system of social security, to clarify the scope of application and the framing of workers, as well as the establishment of the care protection by unemployment for possible agricultural workers. In short, we need to get out of this black and white photo in which we are still in our country and become part of a 21st century working conditions. That is why Compromís will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Postius has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. With the motion tabled by the Confederal Group of the United People's Party, concerning the timing of agricultural campaigns in the State, today we again speak in this House about the situation in the agri-food sector and on this occasion about everything related to the situation of rural workers. In this regard, I believe it is necessary to recognize the thousands of farmers who struggle hard day after day to carry out their farms under very complicated conditions, especially in a few years marked by drought, weather conditions and the endemic price crisis at the origin, which has led to a decrease in the available agricultural income. What cannot be done is to punish a sector that goes ahead despite the difficulties it faces and which, for the most part, tries to do things right. We therefore do not share this view, which attempts to criminalize farmers as a whole. And while it is true that there are very important challenges to be addressed for the group of rural workers, such as questions relating to housing, transport or working conditions, as you have commented, it is also the fact that each autonomous community has its own problems and challenges in this area. At the same time, it is also necessary to recall that Catalonia has its own competence in this area, with a regulatory framework that meets the specific needs of the Catalan field. We therefore do not share the proposal to create a special body of labour inspections, while Catalonia is fully competent in the field of recruitment, with a consultant who is already responsible for the inspections that are carried out each year, as well as for the control of temporary labour companies linked to the agri-food sector. In this respect, I can assure you that very strict controls are carried out in Catalonia every agricultural campaign, which, by the way, involves a great many complaints from farmers about the level of demand to which they are subjected. On the other hand, this motion also calls for changes in the conditions for the perception of the CAP in the event of non-compliance with the applicable collective agreements. This is a proposal that we believe should be addressed, together with others, in the context of the debate on what criteria should be laid down for the collection and distribution of European funds at state and territorial level. Finally, with regard to changes in labour matters relating to trade union representativeness and applicable agreements, we believe that it should be the representatives of agricultural organisations and trade unions who propose possible regulatory changes that are useful to all parties involved and, above all, that provide plausible solutions. Therefore, our group will not support this motion as drafted and we will wait to see what amendments are incorporated to determine our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Postius. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u119	Good afternoon again, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cañamero, last day I listened carefully to your speech and I also read carefully the Journal of Sessions of the inquiry, so I understand that the proposal you are making today is consistent with that presentation, which was really alarming. By explaining it in some way, you described a kind of manual of bad practices and, in front of that manual of bad practices, I want to tell you another different story, a manual that may be of good practice or, at least, of somewhat different practices. I want to expose you to another different reality. With this I do not want to give you any lessons, because I on this subject am a complete ignorant, unlike other people who know much more than I do. But for this intervention, and in view of the gravity of what you told, I have come to the source: those who work, those who exploit, those who control in the field and the temporary ones, and the institutions that have an obligation to control the regularity of all these situations. They have explained to me certain things that do not differ from yours, but that offer another different experience. In Euskadi, with the exception of some small issues in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, the hiring of temporary workers resides mainly in the province of Araba, mainly linked to the area of grape harvest and something to the potato, the Txakoli and some other plantations. Precisely in Rioja Alavesa, in the area of grape harvesting, certain practices began to be detected in the years 1999 and 2000 that led the UAGA - the Agricultural Union of Álava - to take an initiative that was supported by the institutions and that consisted in the implementation of the original recruitment mechanism. In other words, temporary workers are contacted by this body at their origin and are offered specific and dignified conditions of employment and work, including those relating to their accommodation and maintenance, as well as to the payment of the wage committed, and these workers are then hired by each of the agricultural employers for the time and functions offered and agreed. This is certainly an experience you already know. It's not new, it's spread in more than one place and that's why I don't want to bore you with it, but it's a good practice. Above all, I would like to mention how this good practice has been developed. The key to this initiative, in the opinion of all those who have taken part in its preparation, is institutional involvement; that is, it had unequivocal support from the Basque Government and that has ensured its survival. As I said, all those who participated in this initiative have stressed that its main element has been the creation of an inter-institutional table, which includes both the Basque Government, which chairs the table through its Vice-Adviser of Agriculture, as well as the UAGA - farmers and producers - and the four majority unions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In this area it is where the actions in this area are discussed and concreted every year, the partial participation of the Administration in the costs of the recruitment in origin, the legitimation of the association body of the UAGA to act as a contracting agency and the hypothetical needs of the winegrowers and farmers in order to realize the demand for temporary employment. This table also raises questions, talks, facts and monitors, precisely with trade union participation, issues affecting the social rights of workers and temporary workers. With this I am telling you another experience that I found interesting to tell you and that you probably already know, and if it would not be good for you to do so, but that has led, has evolved to how to improve that situation. They have commented on another possibility, and if it is transferred to you too, it is the possibility of creating a stamp of social responsibility that could be recognized by that body for agricultural productions that prove compliance with the social guarantees controlled by that system, and this system, for what I have been told, is not new, already exists - the Catalan Member of Parliament spoke of the situation in Catalonia - has had to be implanted already in the wine region of the Priorat. With this explanation, also taking into account some other issues, such as those relating to the competence of the autonomous community, I would like to say that in many of the issues referred to in your motion I do not disagree, but I believe that some should be nuanced in the sense that the Member of the PDECAT has pointed out to you. What I wanted to point out is that there are other different realities that are addressed differently, with mechanisms that have been useful and that may be an interesting way to address the problem elsewhere. That is why I wanted to explain to you this reality, other measures, other formulas that could serve the same purpose of your motion but which lead us to believe that it is inappropriate to support them with the general character that sustains them, without prejudice to the fact that there may be some contradiction in the way this motion is presented today vis-à-vis a Government that is not the one that was questioned in its day. We will abstain, but I hope you understand one thing, which is not because we disagree with the measures you propose or with their content, but rather with the intended scope of application. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Pause]] He's not here. Mr Calvente Gallego has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] I want to begin by expressing my most absolute revulsion and my strongest protest at the painful, unfortunate, ruinous and petty intervention of the deputy by Jaén of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Cañamero Valle, on May 30 of this year in this rostrum. It is unforgivable, shameful, not only to lack the truth - as 130 temporary workers in the province of Huelva have already reported - about the reported acts of harassment, abuse and widespread ill-treatment of temporary women in the province of Huelva, but to use the death of a person to describe facts that are allegedly false. [[Rumors]] Unfortunately, this Gambian immigrant...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u123	... whose photo hung from a pine tree you had the indignity to teach us, committed suicide by depression and the impossibility of being hired by having an illegal stay in Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr. Cañamero, your resentment, your hatred, your complexes, your ideology, your demagogy and your sectarianism make you describe a schizodic and diabolical reality in relation to the situation of the living and working conditions of the temporalists in Andalusia, Huelva and Almería in particular, and of the temporalists in Spain in general. Mr Cañamero, have the dignity, decorum and political shame to acknowledge your mistake. I demand that you give Huelva and the Onubenses what they have earned in their own right: that they were pioneers in Europe by creating a model of recruitment and recruitment of original temporary workers which was copied by the European Union, which adopted a directive regulating this matter. I have to say that with this directive and other existing legislation, as well as with the union of the entire Onubense society - trade unions, administrations, employers and humanitarian organizations - all temporary workers in Spain are guaranteed a dignified stay and an orderly return to their country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that every year we come to work on our land outside the Community and in third countries, but they come with a clear regulatory framework, in accordance with Directive 2014/36 of the European Parliament, which Spain transposed in 2015. They are subject to the same working conditions as Spanish temporary workers. The conditions of entry and also the conditions of stay of all of them are regulated. Mr Cañamero, are you aware that not only do you not want it in your province of birth, Seville, and therefore you had to present yourself by Jaén, and that neither do you want it by any worker in the Andalusian countryside and that is why the Andalusian Workers' Union does not represent the social part in any collective agreement in the countryside of the eight provinces of Andalusia? [[Protests.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u124	Mr. Calvente, just a moment, please. I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u125	We already know or presume why you are asking in this motion to change the current system of trade union elections in the field. I remind you that the Workers' Statute already foresees and takes steps forward the process that must be followed to elect the staff delegates and/or members of the works council, where appropriate, who will be responsible for representing the workers in front of the company. This electoral process is reflected, as I told you, in the Workers' Statute, articles 69 to 76. With regard to the creation of a special labour inspection body in the field, the People's Parliamentary Group understands that it is unnecessary since the Anti-Fraud Plan approved by the People's Party Government in 2012 has borne fruit. Since 2012 and until last February 2018 there have been 519,056 irregular jobs, which were jobs without rights. More than 7029 fictitious companies, with no real activity, have been identified with the sole aim of facilitating undue access to benefits and more than 359,191 contracts have been converted into indefinite contracts. The estimated overall economic impact is EUR 21 198 million. The fight against fraud will be boosted by the incorporation into the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate during this year 2018 of 3000 people between inspectors, subcontractors and support staff. Mrs Báñez's Ministry of Employment and Social Security has made the inspection work every day to maintain the guarantee of the rights of all workers, including temporary workers. Ladies and gentlemen, collective agreements are designed to guarantee the rights of workers, including rural workers, and trade unions and employers improve working conditions each year. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a legal obligation to report any irregular situation, but not in any way. Finally, I have to say that, thanks to the People's Party, indefinite recruitment is a benchmark in the labour market and that we must not disqualify the work of temporary labour companies operating in the agricultural sector, since it is a form of service accepted throughout the European Union, with extensive legislation, conveniently transposed into Spanish law, which has been regulating the activities of such companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is the party of the countryside and will not allow anyone to deliberately discredit or harm the fresh sector of Huelva or the Andalusian and Spanish agri-food sector, which is a powerful, competitive and model sector in the European Union. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvente Gallego. Mr Cañamero, you have the floor for the sole purpose of saying whether or not you accept the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u127	We're trying to reach a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u128	Thank you so much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CERVANT INSTITUTION. [[File number 173/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u129	We continue with the motion, following urgent questioning, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the Cervantes Institute. Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can escape that the subject that brought us here, the subject of this motion, was the Cervantes Institute. And it really is a matter of great concern to us, but beyond the classic discussion of whether this institute should belong to the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, beyond whether the government really believes it is the promotion of Spanish, of the Spanish brand, beyond whether we should open new seats, some as important as that of Washington, beyond all that there has been a change of government, although probably this motion would have changed little if we had referred to one government of the People's Party or another of the Socialist Party... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u131	Mr. Singing, excuse me a second. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware that it is impossible for the speaker to concentrate and for us to hear it from those of us who have an interest? Please, let's keep quiet because we still have some time left. Go ahead, Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u132	He said that giving this speech to one government of the People's Party or another of the Socialist Party would be virtually the same, because bipartisanism has done exactly the same with the Cervantes Institute. Well, maybe you have to do a little bit, and it's that maybe the PSOE defends a little bit worse the Spanish outside our borders, considering how badly it defends them inside. [[Applauds]] But, as I said, there was a motion of censure, there was a change of government, and that has led us to introduce a new point in this motion that we are defending today. But I would like to make a small parenthesis because I want to apologize and I want to think that I will apologize on behalf of the majority of Members who are right now in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize to Mr Canavaggio, a renowned French Hispanic who was received at the University of Barcelona with shouts, blows and insults; I would like to apologize from here. [[Applauds]] He was prevented from giving a talk about Cervantes at a Catalan public university. A group of brown shirts blew up the act. Among them, as always, there was a violent useful, Mr. Bentanachs, that useful of the secessionists of always, of those who make selfies with Otegi and company. All too often, ladies and gentlemen, we see how the roles have changed and the enemies of democracy camp at large in the public universities of this country. I would like to take advantage of the launch of the Socialist Party government to tell Mr Pedro Duque the following: Mr Pedro Duque, we have a problem, is this the university that you defend? We have not heard your opinion and we look forward to meeting you. [[Applauds]] He said that we wanted to talk about all this, but there was a motion of censure, there was a change of government, there was a move by bipartisanism and the PNV, which he ordered to stop, and by the secessionists, who first and foremost sought to avoid a general election, and that makes us want to change the content of today's proposal. That is why we have added a point that we have been discussing and trying to negotiate with the Socialist Party - already progress that without success - today; a motion of censure that should have been constructive - that is as the Constitution says that our motions of censure are - but that was not so, because Mr. Pedro Sánchez did not outline his government program at any point in the debate; he did not tell us about the project, he did not tell us about the program or what his plan was for Catalonia. We believe that this is serious, because, at a time as difficult as the one we live in, Sánchez has put territorial policy in the hands of the PSC, which concerns us; the PSC that has once again spoken of pardons, which has left the finances in the hands of those who struck democracy, which continues to allow them to finance TV3 with more and more public money, that indoctrination machine which is neither a public medium nor a means of information, which once again allows them to denigrate the image of Catalonia outside Spain with Diplocat, which even speaks of rapprochement of prisoners, that there must be no winners or losers, etc. This concerns us, and we ask ourselves: do you not want to call elections with these proposals, Mrs Batet? Do you not want to return favors before the elections? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we live at a very delicate time, not just because of the secessionist challenge. We still have a delicate economic situation and a crisis of confidence caused by the brutal corruption of bipartisanism. We believe that these challenges require a strong government, a clean government, and this government is not. Most Spaniards want to overcome this crisis of confidence, but, Mrs Batet - I am addressing you because you are the only member of the government here; no, I see there is also another - you know how? With more confidence, with elections, allowing them to express themselves in the ballot boxes. The Spaniards want to choose, they want a government that is legitimized to overcome the challenges we face. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we had the motion of censure here 12 days ago. In twelve days Mr Pedro Sánchez has not yet answered a single question from the Spanish. He did not answer any questions here, nor did he answer any questions at the press conference he held, so what we are doing right now is asking them to keep their word. They said there would be elections. All right, when? Let's talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it when. Today we have brought you a proposal which says that at the end of the session, in spring. Let us set in motion those budgets which you did not want and which you have now promised to fulfil, something also curious; it is the General Budgets of the State of the world in reverse: those who said that it is not now they support them and those who have approved them are now threatening them. This shows in the end that bipartisanism is equal to the State's General Budgets; bipartisanism is equal to what Spanish citizens need. So, I repeat, we ask you to keep your word. [[Rumors]] They said they were going to call elections. When? Let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, We have brought you a proposal: at the end of this session. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please; keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u134	That meant calling general elections in spring, but we've already been told no. We can now announce the Spaniards who first said they were immediate but immediately changed their minds. Then they said that in autumn and now it's not in autumn either. Looks like it won't be in spring either. I guess we'll have to wait until after the summer of next year. Well, let's clarify the picture; you're changing your mind week after week, but at least the Spaniards will be made clear. But tell us when, don't fool the rest of the games, don't fool the Spaniards. Clarify yourself. They keep the word they gave here, with what Mr. Pedro Sánchez said here. The Spaniards don't need patches; the Spaniards need reforms. The Spaniards don't want ads; the Spaniards want solutions. Many of its leaders, socialist ladies and gentlemen, have been asking for nothing until now general elections; the vast majority of Spaniards too. Mrs Margarita Robles - whom I see now - and Mr Pedro Sánchez were asking for general elections when she was in doubt whether or not the General Budgets of the State were going to be approved. That is, you believed that a general election was needed if there were no more than 170 supporters, but now you believe that with 80 you can rule without any problem. [[Applauds]] I ended up paraphrasing Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who also said here that governing does not consist in preserving power at any price. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we believe that it is not worth reaching power at any price to govern. That can't be the case. It cannot be that the President of the Government of Spain is afraid of the decision of the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know how to decide on democracy? Voting. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say that we Members of this Parliament have seen things that you would not believe, that too; but I can say that we are seeing aspects of our constitutional order come to life that had so far only served to exercise the memory of the first-rate law student. This motion is the result of an urgent inquiry that Mrs Rivera, on behalf of her group, made to Minister Dastis just two weeks ago, and now it turns out that from the questioning of ministers of one government for the first time in forty years of democracy motions for ministers of another government are coming out. Mr Cantó, I hoped that Mrs Rivera, who has my admiration and friendship, would defend this motion and had thought to begin my intervention with some verses of Te I give a song, by Silvio Rodríguez, but, as I do not want to sin of favoritism, I have decided that you too deserve them. These are the verses that say: '...and how time passes, which suddenly are years...'. For the truth is that the motion we are debating today seemed to have been stopped in a remote past, and that the thirteen days since you presented it would have become at least thirteen months. Today you present a motion with eight points, seven of which are dedicated to telling the Government what to do with the Cervantes Institute, and the last to urge it to convene elections immediately. Isn't that wonderful? If the government does what you ask at the Cervantes Institute, then you cannot call elections and, if you call elections, then you cannot do the Cervantes reforms. [[Applauds]] What a beautiful contradiction! I am not saying that they intend to drive the new government crazy, but these contradictory orders are what the School of Psychology of Palo Alto calls the double bond, placing them at the origin of serious psychic pathologies. [[Laughter]] It is not the only contradiction in the motion that you present. On the one hand, they call for the direction of Cervantes institutes to be chosen through objective procedures based on a professional career in these centres, that is, that political power should take its hands out of appointments, but, on the other hand, you bring us a proposal in which you ask Congress to take very technical decisions, such as separating the direction of the centres in Beijing and Shanghai. Does it not seem to you that this is a decision that should correspond to the Cervantes management after having had the necessary reports? Does it not seem to you that it is not logical that something that would not go to the government, that would not go to the Council of Ministers, should come to the Congress of Deputies for us to decide? Do we think the amendment we have put before you is more appropriate to the role of guidance to the Government? [[Applauds]] Of course, our amendment does not include the eighth passenger, that strange and contradictory point with all the others for which you call for the immediate convening of elections. I would never discuss the right to ask for it, nor do I even think of telling them to lower the issue of Cervantes by putting such a striking matter on their side; it does not dishonor a just cause that we defend on their side another that is greater and more urgent; although this is not the case, I will not make that reproach to them. Thirteen days ago, before the end of the motion of censure, it could seem reasonable the proposal they make to us; twelve days ago it was no longer so, because twelve days ago this House, representing national sovereignty, decided to elect a new government to continue the legislature, and it faced its proposal to elect an instrumental government to finish it and reconvene elections to the last two years, in the middle of the mandate we received from the citizenry. Mr Cantó, I am sure that you, your group and other groups in the House found it good and desirable that two years ago the Socialists should avoid abruptly ending this parliamentary term and going to third elections. We pay dearly for Mr Rajoy's commitment, which has finally proved impossible to remain in the Presidency of the Government, but we allow the Government to be formed and the legislature to begin to function fully. It wasn't an easy decision. That decision that you liked us so much tore us apart as a party, tore us apart as nothing has done in forty years of democracy. Someone who's been campaigning in the socialist ranks every day of those 40 years tells him that. I know what I'm talking about. That decision that seemed to them responsible and convenient broke us each and every one of the socialist deputies who sit in these seats, we voted what we voted on broke us personally, tore our affiliates and affiliates and our voters apart. [[Applauds]] Two years ago the Socialists thought that prolonging the legislature would harm us, but it was beneficial for democracy and we acted accordingly. Now, like then, we think it is good for Spain to continue this parliamentary term, which is convenient, which is constitutional and legitimate and that before ending it, in the middle of its development, the legislature can explore other possibilities for the future with another government. Today, as in the film by Ridley Scott, we, Mr Cantó, are Lübbert and you are Feraud and the laws of coherence - since not the laws of honor, as in the film - force you to submit your request and accept our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]] Mr. Girauta, say article.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u138	I'm sorry, Madam President, but I hope this is the last time the intervener jokes about psychic diseases. I hope it's the last time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u139	Mr Girauta, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u140	Excuse me, hundreds of thousands of families in this country are suffering from this problem. Don't make fun of me. If you have any decency, withdraw what you said. [[Mrs. Cantera de Castro: Come now!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u141	Mr Girauta, you do not have the floor. [[Rumors and Protests]] Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions. [[Mr. Girauta Vidal: I asked you to withdraw those words!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about the future of the Cervantes Institute or talking about Miguel de Cervantes himself and his work would also allow us to talk about Spain, about the best of Spain. [[Mr Girauta Vidal goes up to speak with the Presidency]] Maybe that's why some people wanted to stop it from being talked about in Barcelona the other day. It seems a lie that some are afraid of Cervantes or Cervantes. [[He also spoke to Mr. Gordo Pérez, and Mrs. Reyes Rivera, a member of the Bureau.]] In any case today it is worth claiming its figure the strength and prestige of the Spanish language in the world. In the face of those who, not content with denying the story that unites us, also want to steal the living memory of their figure and their work. Given what happened in Barcelona the other day, once again we have to denounce that secessionism needs conflict, it needs to break ties, it needs to seek viscerality. Yesterday he protested at a talk by Cervantes, tomorrow in Alsasua protesting against a conviction of attackers of civilian guards and their partners. Everything goes to tension, ladies and gentlemen; this is a permanent cocktail of false pacifism at the service of hatred, always with the same ingredients. [[Protests.-A Member of Parliament: Yes you can!-Another Member of Parliament: What are you doing there?-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u143	Excuse me. Go on, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u144	I repeat, secessionism all serves to tension, a cocktail of false pacifism at the service of hatred, always with the same ingredients: artificially vile masses, intimidation and fear. But, lords of Citizens, you introduce an eighth point that obviously has nothing to do with Cervantes. 'Cosas veredes', friend Cantó. But this point suggests two very quick ideas or reflections. One, which we can support calling an election, but if we are not clear that the enemies of the freedom of a few in Barcelona yesterday, or in Alsasua tomorrow, are enemies of all we will have made no progress. Finally, and secondly, that after a new election the votes of my party, Union of the Navarro People, will again serve, first, to help Spain grow in a balanced way by eliminating inequalities, without bleeding those who create jobs. Secondly, to defend Navarra's political personality against the intolerable aggressions of Basque nationalism, guaranteeing solidarity and unity for all. They will also serve to build a future story of a country that overcomes an interested civil war and, fourth, they will serve to combat supremacy, all its lies and all its claims of division based on ethnolinguistic nations more peculiar to the worst times of last century Europe. For that reason, from now on this Government - and when it comes, in the future - has us at its disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Armendáriz. And excuse me. The Journal of Sessions has been requested and, if there is anything that any person understands offensively, the speaker, Mr Torres Mora, will be asked to withdraw it and, if not, the Bureau will withdraw it. But let us first see the Journal of Sessions. Okay? Mr Candela Serna has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like, as I apologize on behalf of all Members, to apologize on behalf of the Valencians for exporting a person closely related to Paco Camps and, in addition, a very conflicting person, who only creates conflict where he goes. Excuse me, we Valencians aren't like that. [[Applauds]] Stop making movies. You came from the centre of the left and ended up being the right most racy; you came to regenerate democracy and ended up in the hands of the People's Party, voting with them in the motion of censure. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you said that they were not your budgets, but you approved them because they gave stability; that you accepted the government's vetoes because they gave stability; that you supported Rajoy, although it was not your pleasure, because they gave stability; and today what you are asking for precisely with this motion is more political instability for this country. Because you live from political instability, confrontation and parasitizing a corrupt party. There will be elections in this country, but not when you decide, but when you play it in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, do you know why we say it will be in 2020? Because the motion of censure put two very clear things on the table: that we, at the time of truth, are with democracy and not with corruption and, more importantly, that you make short-lived politics thinking about elections and we make politics thinking about future generations. I'm done. We will not support this motion because in the face of the threat of systemic and systematic corruption of the People's Party this country needs stability, change and effective regeneration. I'm done. Don't be useless, leave the bank of corruption, abandon political confrontation and conflict and stop making movies, which are too bad. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u147	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u148	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Singing, you give a lot, but what a lot of laziness. You don't give a shit what you're talking about, you don't give a damn what we're dealing with here because you're just talking about one thing, which is actually your subject: Catalonia. I wonder what you would talk about or what you would dream of if Catalonia did not exist. [[Applauds]] You have an obsession problem with Catalonia and even the day you come to talk to us about the Cervantes Institute, at least in your first seven points, you tell us about Catalonia, which little will have to do with Catalonia with the Cervantes Institute, unless you want to build us a Cervantes Center in Catalonia, already preparing for what can happen, and in that we can agree. [[showing a writing]] I confess to you, Mr Cantó, that when I read this initiative I thought that the Cervantes Institute was of little importance to you, because I raise seven points linked to the Cervantes Institute - which even some of them may be interesting - and I think, at point eight, that the call for elections is not only surrealistic, but rather inappropriate and disrespectful to the Cervantes Institute. As I knew today that it would be you who would defend this point, I gave up all hope that this point would prosper and that your group would show the slightest respect for the Cervantes Institute, to which you have come here today, in theory, to defend. Besides, for me it was a nice day to talk about foreign policy, and I wanted a lot. Because, look, the arrogant government that came to Catalonia to announce the dissolution and liquidation of the Diplocat, is now liquidated and the government that, in theory, was liquidated today has announced the constitution of a new Diplocat. [[Applauds]] I wanted a lot to discuss foreign policy and cultural policy with you, but it has not given me the opportunity, although I will not take it into account. The next time we talk about Catalonia and electoral calls - which, in fact, is about the only things you know how to talk about - we will already discuss Catalonia and what you want. Obviously, we are not going to vote for this initiative on any of its points. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u150	Thank you, Madam President. I'm speaking from the seat. I was thinking of talking about the Cervantes Institute and I was going to do it from the rostrum, but since you haven't talked about the Cervantes Institute and I think it's a huge disrespect to the Cervantes Institute itself - which proves that you care about the Cervantes Institute - I'm not going to waste a minute talking about anything. I will obviate the pathetic of the last point that you have presented and, in that way, you will remain saving your homeland, your language, your unity and all your obsessions. Come on, come on, [[Laughs.-Applause.]] So, calm down. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I now give the floor to Mr Tardà i Coma, on behalf of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Señor Canto, calm down, calm down. You know why? Because the vast majority of voters of Citizens, Catalans and Catalans are not fanatized like you. [[Applauds]] The vast majority of citizens' voters are not fanatical people and I assure you that in my city, in my neighborhood, there are many neighbors who vote for Citizens and do not look like you. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] With this, calm down, for the benefit of your legitimate ideas, and for the benefit of your political organization. You're fantasizing. I met him, back in the day, different. I'm saying this to remind you that there's a brake. [[Laughter]] Today you tell us this and in a few days you will know what you are going to tell us. What happened the other day in Vic is a shame. [[Applauds]] What happened at the University of Barcelona is a shame. I said it and, after ten minutes, I wrote it in a tweet that, not to brag, I say it had thousands of retuits. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures with his head]] He says the following, I translate it into Spanish: It is hard to understand that those who abrogated Congresswoman Arrimadas or boycotted an act at the university do not realize the evil they do to independence by appearing as people like those who insult and attack us for being independenceists. [[reading from your mobile]] [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: What a shame!]] In the same way that I say - I should believe - that I regret that Mrs Arrimadas, four mad and rude people will scold her; I ask you, and you too, to be so bold and so categorical when people who belong to Falange, to National Democracy and to your party - yes, yes, you have to be honest and honest - attack us and insult us. [[Mr Cantó García del Moral: Come, man!-Several Members: No!]] By the way, Mr Rivera has allowed himself - I have never told him - to normalize the racist word here by addressing the Republican Left and looking at me; just as secessionist, couptist and even once escaped the Nazi term, and we have done as if we did not hear it. If we do this, if we come here to light the fire, what are we going to demand from those people who, perhaps acting irresponsibly, commit acts that violate the freedom of expression, which is sacred. I only ask you to act like us - assuming mistakes - over those people who don't respect others. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures with his head]] You can move your head, you can do whatever you want, but you must believe me when I tell you that I am doing here an act that I pretend to be honest and at least you should assume what part and what responsibility you have not to condemn also multiple acts that are happening and that we should try not to happen. You deny it, it's the same because we live it. Why do you not condemn acts that occur in some demonstrations full of citizens who vote for your party and who surely feel uncomfortable; as uncomfortable as living that situation as I can feel uncomfortable when I see that a person who calls himself an independenceist may not respect you either? That is why I started the speech saying that we have to be very aware that the vast majority of citizens do not intend to follow - I am convinced of this - those who have taken the path of fanaticism. Don't be one of them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Maura Zorita has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cantó, let me ask you a question. If the motion from which you have made your chirriant and unprepared intervention hang would not have been on cultural policy or on the internationalization of Spanish culture, but on autonomous or on innovation or on economics, would it have allowed the luxury that has been allowed to make the intervention that you have made? Would you have allowed it? [[Applauds]] I ask you a second question, Mr Cantó: you, who considered yourself capable, competent, to be Minister of Culture in a Citizens' Government, as I read in an interview just over a year ago, should know that we have little opportunity to talk about culture and cultural policy in this House. Do you really consider this an opportunity worth wasting? Do you really consider it? [[Applauds]] And a third question: you know that behind the seven initial points of the motion presented by the Citizen Parliamentary Group, there is work; there is serious work and since all serious work is questionable, it may even be intensely questionable, but it is serious work. Was it really worth ignoring, not the Cervantes Institute anymore, but the very people of your parliamentary group who have worked hard, who have made the parliamentary effort to present this motion? Do you really think it was unworthy? [[Rumors]] Because I don't think so. I can understand that you have decided to stay in the motion of censure, or even that you have decided to stay in another time when the winds were blowing in another direction. But, honestly, I never thought I'd say this, either here or anywhere else. So far, you and, now, let's talk about the Cervantes Institute. The motion of the Citizen Parliamentary Group has interesting aspects, but it does not touch the one that, in our opinion, is decisive the need to produce a Spanish cultural strategy on the outside common to all the actors involved, that is: Foreign, Culture, embassies, cultural centers with participation of Aecid, the Cervantes Institute, etc. The autonomy of these actors and their diverse ministerial and budgetary location, in many positive ways, should not be an obstacle to the development of a concerted strategy. I am sorry not to talk about elections, but let us talk about a common strategy, of the common strategy of the Spanish Government on the internationalization of Spanish culture. I am also doing this as a sign of respect, not only for Mrs Ribera, but also as a sign of respect for her colleagues and my colleagues and the other Members of the Committees on Culture and Foreign Affairs, who are responsible for this matter. Let's, therefore, with the common strategy. My group's proposal is clear: the internationalisation of culture must be an important axis of action within the Spanish external strategy. It is a question of making culture a tool of social cohesion, of international cooperation and an economic engine comprising the different geographical areas - particularly, as far as this motion is concerned, America - not only as a niche of the market, but as a cultural space of high social interest. In addition, the common cultural policy abroad must support cultural professionals, associations, cooperatives and enterprises in their work of internationalization. The Citizens motion proposes to open or incorporate centers with Aecid's participation in the Cervantes Institute, but does not specify why, under what conditions and in what strategic framework and, therefore, is not able to address in all its complexity the so diverse casuistics that we now have. By making a proposal in the minute that remains to me, in our opinion it could be more efficient for what is requested, to set up a mediation office to assist cultural actors and to facilitate their access to Spanish and foreign funds and subsidies. This would guarantee something that we do not now have: a continuous presence of Spanish culture, diverse and multilingual, in international cultural forums. Dissemination, therefore, to promote the dissemination abroad of small and medium-scale projects - also of a large scale to the extent necessary - representative of the rich and plural cultural fabric of our country, through exchanges, scholarships, jiras, production of events, festivals, exhibitions, encounters, peachings and technological clusters. So far, what we can offer. It could have been more if I had not invested in you more than two minutes of my speech. Obviously, we cannot vote in favour of this motion. If we voted for points, we would perhaps be encouraged to abstain in one of them. Otherwise, we will vote against it. We wish the new Government luck in implementing the common strategy that my group has just proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u155	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hoyo Juliá.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech with a quote from The Dog Colloquium, by Miguel de Cervantes: 'Little or never meets the ambition that is not with third party damage'. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is no greater political uncertainty than the ambition of power without having measured the forces well, and that is exactly what has happened to the Citizens' Group. [[Applauds]] That's why he's plunged into the greatest of confoundings. Mr. Singing, you've missed reading more to the classics. In culture then it was not demoscopy, but a source for the formation of judgment and reason. Remember Cervantes said it in El Quixote: 'Don't you know that fear is not courage? Doubtful hopes must make men bold, but not reckless.' Unfortunately, you have walked and are more concerned about the surveys than about the interest of all Spaniards, and to the facts I refer. Two weeks ago, they broke the pact with the People's Party. Two weeks ago they launched all their spokesmen to say that the People's Party government was over. A week ago Mr Sánchez from this very rostrum revealed a conversation between Mr Ábalos and Mr Villegas that allowed us to know Mr Rivera's exact strategy: to block the government of Mariano Rajoy and to destabilise him to the fullest. And now what, Citizens' Lords? Are you satisfied with what you have achieved? Are you happy? Is this motion a sign of your repentance? [[Applauds]] Let me tell you that their failure has led them to fail to achieve their ambition, but they have also caused irreparable damage to our country. It's the price of fear, ladies and gentlemen. You are calling for elections, but you must be aware that you have led from irresponsibility and fear, whether indirectly or directly, to the success of the motion of censure and that those who have to account for your questions about the fate of the Cervantes Institute or for other matters are now Mr Sánchez's Government. Do not continue to make politics a game of artifice and do not count on the support of my parliamentary group for this motion, because we are not going to do propaganda-based follow-up. That they now call for elections is the swan singing of those who have not been able to live up to the political circumstances and those who now fear that some scandals, such as the fact that the Court of Auditors has opened a disciplinary file to them for alleged illegal financing of their party, may blow them up. [[rumors.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u157	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be our turn to welcome the new Government, another third of which will be reflected in the spending budgets of the various ministries. And it would also be a matter of courtesy for us to give a few weeks for the various ministers to settle down, but they will understand that this Member, who belongs to a full parliamentary group, is scandalized when only four days after the elections our constituent pact, the 1978 pact, has been put to death, and it has been stated very strongly that urgent reform of the Constitution is needed. The toll of power is large and the mortgage elevated, as much as a home in Galapagar bought by a common family, right? [[Applauds]] This government, formed and announced by dripping, is an accumulation of personal incongruities, but it will not be us who shed light on all those shadows, because to us what we really care about is the future of Spain, a future in silver, because the creditors are already calling, right, Mrs. Lastra? Yeah. Populists, independenceists and terrorists are already lining up at the door of La Moncloa... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u159	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u160	... to collect the debts. [[Applauds]] We are already seeing some of the concessions they are making as, for example, removing control of the accounts of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Ladies and gentlemen, the price to be governed is not the same as the value of a government. We're going to see a lot of prices, but we're not going to see any value. [[Rumors and Protests]] I conclude, Madam President, by addressing the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u161	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u162	It would be good if they remembered another passage from El Quixote that says:... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u163	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u164	'To do good to villains is to throw water into the sea'. Think every day about those who have come to power. Think every day if your actions are consistent with the general interest of all Spaniards or with that of a group of a community that accumulates disruptive interests. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, because maybe one day they'll have to react. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u165	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, let's start with the votes. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen, too many things have happened this afternoon. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. First, we voted to take into consideration the proposal of the Parliament of Andalusia, on the transfer of resources of 19,99 cubic hectares from the Hydrographic Demarcation of the Red, Odiel and Stone rivers to the Hydrographic Demarcation of Guadalquivir. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 4 telematics votes, 341; 247 plus 2 telematics votes, 249; 83 plus 2 telematics votes, 85; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u167	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u168	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Organic Reform of the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judiciary, on urgent measures in implementation of the State Covenant on Gender Violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour plus 4 telematics votes, 343; 338 votes in favour plus 4 telematics votes, 342; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u169	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u170	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the prevention of digital gender-based violence among youth. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Citizens' Group and the Joint Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 333 against, 1 abstention, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u171	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America can, in common, develop the care sector as a policy of employment, economic, social and equal priority. [[File number 162/000622]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u172	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the development of the care sector as a policy of employment, economic, social recovery and priority equality. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 169 against, 137 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u173	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u174	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. First of all, we voted for the motion as a result of urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the living and working conditions of the temporary and temporary members of the agricultural campaigns in Spain. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Citizens' Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 195 against, 139 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u175	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CERVANT INSTITUTION. [[File number 173/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u176	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the Cervantes Institute. We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 117 against, 12 abstentions, 209.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u177	It was adopted. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 34 against, 163 abstentions, 142.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u178	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 185 against, 10 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u179	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 103 against, 93 abstentions, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u180	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 34 against, 160 abstentions, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u181	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 34 against, 92 abstentions, 210.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u182	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 116 against, 10 abstentions, 213.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u183	It was adopted. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 34 against, 173 abstentions, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-12-CD180612.u184	It's rejected. The meeting rose. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
