ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that there will be no votes to coincide with the plenary session of the Senate today, so they will be held at the sitting on Thursday. We begin with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliament, the reform of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November, the Criminal Code, the decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid to suicide. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Catalan Parliament, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome today on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor first of all Mrs Alba Vergés i Bosch of the Parliamentary Group of the Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. In July, the Parliament of Catalonia approved the proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, decriminalizing euthanasia and helping with the suicide we are presenting today. During the presentation in Parliament, lawyers, bioethics experts and health professionals were heard; the main legal situations, bioethics debates and end-of-life support experiences were exposed and we collected the years of work of the Association for Dret to Morir Dignament of Catalonia, to which we owe gratitude for their constant and tenacious struggle for dignity and respect for free decisions. From here we send you a greeting. During these long years there have been substantial changes in the social perception of euthanasia. Today the fear of unbearable suffering weighs even more than the fear and taboo of death. To speak openly that under different circumstances it is legitimate to end life by self-determination is no longer taboo. A large majority of society is in favour of going beyond the mitigation of penalties, taking euthanasia and helping suicide out of the penal sphere to allow for the regulation of the appropriate ways to ensure respect for and the right to decide on one's own life, which also implies death itself, the right to die in accordance with personal values, priorities and preferences. We speak precisely of this, of dignity. An unbearable suffering, however subjective it may be, is real in each one's life, breaking in such a way the scheme of values of the person who leads him not to desire his unworthy to live. Fear of decriminalization also weighs and is one of the causes of the fact that, after so many years and with a growing majority of social support, a response to this right has not yet been given. The so-called slippery slope has so far served to curb the political initiatives that have been emerging, but there is also conflicting international evidence in the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Quebec, some States of the United States, Luxembourg and Canada that the slippery slope does not have to be given and that, with well done regulation, all the feared vulnerabilities can be protected. In July, the Catalan Parliament gave a political response, set aside fears and saw opportunities, appealing to Republican values that put people, their rights and their freedoms at the centre. We are based on the Charter of the Rights and Duties of Patients, we are based on the development of palliative cures, medical advances and ethical debates, and with this the Catalan society decides - it is no longer legally possible to condition the legitimate wills of people at the end of their lives - and proposes the amendment of the Penal Code with the following wording: 'It is exempt from criminal responsibility that, by express request, free and unequivocal of a person suffering from a serious illness that will necessarily lead to death or an incurable pathology that causes him or her serious physical or psychological suffering and that is expected to be permanent, cause with necessary acts the safe, peaceful and painless death of that person or cooperate in it, within the established legal framework'. It is necessary to decriminalize so that people know that they have the right to respect their decisions, which necessarily entails regulating the above-mentioned forecasts: protection of the most vulnerable people, ethical guarantees, fleeing arbitrariness, protecting professional practice by giving legal certainty and abandoning paternalism to emphasize sharing and accompanying decisions. For this reason, and for what my fellow Members of the Catalonian Parliament will explain below, we ask this House to take this proposal for organic law into consideration. We wish to contribute with fraternity to the essential step of politics by listening to society. The path of listening should never be abandoned. It is preferable to be at the side of freedom, dignity and rights. As the Association for Dret says to Morir Dignament, you'll be free at the end. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. I now give the floor to Mrs Assumpta Escarp Gibert of the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a large majority supported the proposal for a law that we have proposed to this House today from the Catalonian Parliament for consideration. We propose that article 143, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code be amended, which, in its current wording - which I will not repeat because it has already been read - speaks of a victim, and therefore makes a homicide attenuated. The mitigation of penalties is the response that, not without a reply, occurs in 1995, when Ramon Sampedro requests euthanasia in a Barcelona court, thus initiating a claim that has grown over the years. The aim is not simply to delete paragraph 4 - if we did so we would open the door to further criminalisation - but it is proposed that the new wording should make a clear and explicit reference to exculpation. Decriminalization is proposed, severe mental suffering is incorporated and there is also a legal framework. We must not confront the palliative cures to euthanasia, because neither intentionality, nor procedure, nor the results are the same. In euthanasia, the doctor does not propose. The decision is the patient's, but requires a medical act; the autonomy of the person implies a third party. Hence the need to decriminalize and, at the same time, regulate to provide sufficient guarantees. José María Mena, ex-fiscal in Catalonia, said, reflecting on the legal-penal connection and politics in euthanasia, that this debate is a good barometer to measure the temperature of the sincerity of the legislators' will for progress. We are aware - and it became clear in the parliamentary debate - that this amendment must coincide with or precede the necessary regulation to establish the necessary criteria, guarantees and legal certainty. For this reason, from the Socialist Group of the Parliament of Catalonia we welcome the presentation by the Spanish Socialist Workers Party of the proposed organic law regulating euthanasia. I would not like to continue this intervention without thanking the members of the Association for the Right to a Dignity Death for their tenacity and constancy in the struggle of these years; tenacity, but also for promoting debate and seeking maximum social and political consensus. [[Applauds]] When we talk about the right to die, what we really want to express is not in itself the right to such a fact to happen, but rather the right to die decently, to die, to dignify the process of death and that it occurs from the very concept of autonomy and freedom that has governed one's own life, since the process of death is not something alien or different from life, but its last part. Many times in the Congress of Deputies - sixteen times since 1994 - the regulation of euthanasia has been debated; also in the Senate and three times in the Parliament of Catalonia. In 2006, the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia already said: the principles of dignity, autonomy and well-being of the patient make the decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid of suicide ethically acceptable and constitutionally possible. We are in 2018 and it is clear that new international, political and social realities have been added to the debate. In the last issue of the Spanish Journal of Sociological Research, Professors Rafael Serrano and Adrián Heredia, in an interesting work, addressed the process of death and death as a first-class social fact. The Spanish population is mostly in favour of being able to take control of their lives in the process of dying. The debate on euthanasia is already part of the political and social agenda. We know the favourable state of opinion and we must seek the maximum social and political consensus, far from a prioriism, political opportunisms, prejudices and ideological sectarianisms, because we are talking about a right, the right to die dignifiedly. Because we have added more time to life, but no more life at the time, we have not managed that people, in the process of death, preserve their dignity, autonomy and freedom to choose. That is why we are bringing our proposal today for your consideration, which we hope will take place in this Congress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. I now give the floor to Mrs Marta Ribas Frías of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u6	Thank you. MPs, MPs, said Jorge Luis Borges that life is a coming death; in fact, the only security that we have all of us here today is that one day or another we will die. The other great certainty is that, if you think about it for a moment, you will realize that you probably don't care as much about death itself as about the suffering or the process of suffering that you may have to go through before you get to it. In fact, this is the majority feeling of our country's citizenship and it is largely the fundamental question of the proposal that we bring to you today from the Parliament of Catalonia: how much suffering we are willing to endure before arriving at a safe death; under what conditions for each of us the life that remains for us will cease to be a life worthy of being lived. These are very personal questions that I'm sure have a wide variety of answers, because each of us has our own threshold of vital basic dignity. What we propose today with this proposal of law is to start a path, to take only the first necessary step to end by regulating a new right of citizenship, the right to exercise an individual freedom, the right to be able to decide freely what that threshold is for each of us, from when the path that remains until death is no longer of dignity. For Ramon Sampedro it ceased to be after twenty-five years prostrated by his tetraplegia; for Immaculate Echevarría it was not life worth spending ten years in a hospital connected to a mechanical fan to breathe after thirty-one years of degenerative disease. These are only two of the most famous cases in which two people have asked consciously, freely and publicly for an assisted death, but there are so many more clandestine deaths and, above all, so many more people who have had to live a death in their opinion unworthy because this Parliament has not yet been able to regulate the right to a dignified death. Let me highlight just one more case of someone who has suffered that death, in his opinion unworthy, that of Montserrat Voltà, a ninety-year-old Catalan woman, sick with ALS, with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, who published an emotional letter in the Catalan press where he concluded: It does not seem good to me that, after having a full and long life, the system forces me to live in an unworthy way and does not allow me to go in peace and without suffering. Each of these cases, of the many cases that have occurred in Spain, was clear where its threshold of life and dignified death was; the Spanish penal and legal system did not respect it. It is not a question of imposing any belief, of imposing any ethics or religion; in fact, that would have to be a general rule in a country of the twenty-first century that wants to be secular. Decriminalizing and regulating euthanasia and assisted suicide will not deprive anyone who wants to die when nature marks it and medicine cannot remedy it. It will only give the same option of individual freedom to those who do not have it now, to those who place their threshold of dignity and death a little or a lot before natural death. I therefore urge coherence, especially to groups that define themselves as liberals, as defenders of individual freedoms, because with the proposal that we bring to them today from the Parliament we do not stop any individual freedom, we only open the way to expand it. Processing and carrying out this bill in Congress would take a first step to eliminate any criminal responsibility in a case of euthanasia or assisted suicide. We also urge you to follow the necessary steps: regulate this practice of a new right. And allow me one last memory of someone I miss today in the guest gallery, Dr. Luis Montes. For him and for all those who have worked for a long time since the Association Right to a Dignity Death throughout Spain, today this House should do things differently than it has been doing for so many years, with so many attempts before this one that we bring from the Parliament today, and finally start the way for euthanasia and assisted suicide to disappear from our Penal Code. It is in your hands, Members and Members, to regulate a death worthy of dignity as an essential element also of vital dignity. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Mr Salvador Armendáriz, first of all, has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and welcome to your home. Union of the Navarro People, my party, defends principles inspired by Christian humanism and therefore defends the dignity of the human being, the value of life, the right and duty to protect it from conception to its natural end. We defend a genuine welfare society that seeks alternatives to that culture that rejects the most helpless at the beginning of life and, now, the weakest at the end, because we believe that there are better alternatives than the recourse to euthanasia. Here, in this Congress, we have been studying for months a more respectful standard of living, which aims to improve and universalize palliative care at its end. We believe that this is a real alternative to your proposal. We, in any case, reject that it can be recognized as a right to help deliberately end a human life. On the contrary, we believe in the right and collective duty to protect, care for, accompany and assist it. I am sure that you know that where euthanasia has been authorized for years, we are beginning to discuss why we should limit that right to decide to be eliminated to the fact that we are sick or to see the end come or suffer and why we should not apply it without more limitation than desire, rather than freedom. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the next step, not the last - it is true - of that slippery slope. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that by approving this proposal there will be fewer patients who ask to be eliminated? Because the experience of some countries that have legalized euthanasia is just the opposite. For us, ladies and gentlemen, euthanasia is a serious failure as a society. We believe that the obligation of professionals is precisely the opposite: to make those who suffer accompanied, cared for, relieved, being sure that nothing will break the bond of trust between patients and medical professionals. Your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, does not even guarantee a minimum control of this practice. Today euthanasia would be practiced without punishment for those who ask for it - it is true - in certain contexts, but tomorrow, with the same logic as today, it will apply to those who cannot decide for themselves or those who already consider themselves a burden to society or families. We, the two Members of the Navarro People's Union, are not going to vote in favour and we encourage those who have doubts about the morality or the effectiveness of voting in conscience not, above the compulsory vote set by their political formations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to start my speech without reminding Dr. Luis Montes and all his tireless professional and personal career for the right to die worthily. Today, a bill from the Catalan Parliament comes to Congress which has been magnificently presented to us by its representatives here, Mrs Vergés, Mrs Escarp and Mrs Ribas, to whom I extend a greeting, especially to our colleague Marta Ribas, from Initiative per Catalunya Verds. This proposal seeks to reform the Criminal Code for the decriminalization of euthanasia and the help of suicide. We understand that in the twenty-first century it is inhuman to have people who, against their will, have to suffer to the last breath, people to whom physical and mental pain is unnecessarily extended without their consent; people who are denied the right to die without the help of their relatives. The right to dignified death deserves to be addressed with the utmost openness. The revulsive that involved the case of Ramon Sampedro twenty years ago placed in the foreground of Spanish society a debate that, twenty years later, has not yet been resolved, as I say, with the proper opening of eyes. Spanish society has expressed broad support for the decriminalization of euthanasia in certain cases and under strict control mechanisms. Therefore, since Compromís we support the amendment of the Criminal Code, which is necessary and relevant for the time in which we live. We also want to appeal directly to the Members of Parliament and to the Members of the People's Party not to settle for abstention, because they always fill their mouths by talking about individual rights, freedom, liberalism, but this does not have to be just on the economic issue, it should be congruent and bring it also to personal ground. The Valencian Generalitat, like other territories, is currently processing a dignified death law that has passed its last parliamentary procedure before moving to the plenary of the Valencian Courts for its debate and final approval. It is a courageous law to regulate the exercise of the right of the person in the final process of his life, avoiding suffering and respecting his last will. There are also other autonomous communities that have followed the same path, because they are regulating as far as their competences go, but a state framework is needed that regulates the right of people to die decently because this is what euthanasia means, good death. Death, as has already been indicated here, is part of life, we must not be afraid of it and we must let people, in the use of their right to self-determination, also decide when they want, in a good way, to have a good death, a dignified death. It is time to take a step forward, to live up to the circumstances, to live up to all the brave ones who have fought to the end but who want to decide when and how they want to end their life, when they already see that all possibilities have been exhausted. It is also time for the central State, as an integral part of the State of Autonomy, to fulfil its functions once and for all, to assume its powers and to round off the legal framework with the decriminalization called for by euthanasia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mrs Nogueras i Camero is now speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u12	Thank you, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] After many debates in Congress, the consensus solution comes from the hands of the Parliament of Catalonia. We are talking about the outcome of the dialogue and the pact and, above all, about taking good note of both health professionals and bioethics, but also of civil testimonies, whose contributions have been essential since it is not a purely medical or political debate, it is also a social debate. More than 80% of public opinion supports the right of terminally ill persons to end their lives in a dignified manner. This proposal also stops, as the company Alba Vergés pointed out, paternalism; we park it and opens the door to a new stage: the stage of respect and accompaniment of decisions. This is the right to decide and dispose of one's own life. We should not allow anyone to be imposed on suffering that they do not want, nor should we impose palliative care as the only option because both this, the palliative option, and euthanasia are death options. It's both of them. We have a responsibility to exclude death aid from the criminal sphere and we must amend laws in a sense of progress. I end with a sentence we hear Fernando Marín: I want you to take care of me as best you can with comprehensive care, but I want to be able to decide how long I want you to take care of me. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u13	Mrs Nogueras, I was going to comment on the subject being put forward. Next, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, good afternoon to everyone. The last time we had the opportunity to discuss a proposal for a law on euthanasia I thought I would quote Cioran, but I considered more opportune a quote from Petrarca about the good to die, question no doubt relevant to what we were discussing. And he also asked questions; he asked many questions that, however controversial they were, reflected the need to be answered by those we have an obligation to legislate. Is it ethically acceptable to help a person who so desires, because of his tremendous suffering, to die? Who is it to establish what a worthy death is? Is the prolongation of life always a good or is it sometimes to give in to other medical, human, etc. considerations? Can life be extended at any cost? Is therapeutic obstinacy justifiable or, what is the same, is it ethically acceptable to reduce therapeutic effort in certain situations and to let a person die? All these questions and many more come to our mind when from personal or close experience we face situations that legislatively in many cases do not find a satisfactory answer or the answer given from the law is an answer that does not solve anything and only acts punitively. That is why I would like to start with a reflection that, as long as the years, centuries and even millennia go by, remains as topical as it was when it was formulated. Said Seneca: Death is a punishment for some, for others a gift, and for many a favor. And that is because the great question that surrounds this whole debate, the question that for centuries, from science, from philosophy and from religion has been tried to answer, is: are we the owners of our lives? So, we own our own death? For this reason, today we have on the table the proposal for a law that comes to us from the Parliament of Catalonia to amend a paragraph of article 143 of the Criminal Code; therefore, although the philosophical, political and social part is of a huge dimension and transcendence, the operative part refers only to a minimal but substantial change: that something that is currently a crime, punished with imprisonment, should not be so. Obviously, the burden of this change is substantial to the total change and way of seeing and understanding reality as well as how to meet the new needs we have as a society. We live more and more; sometimes, even better, but we depend more and there comes a time when our dependence only allows us to add years to life but does not give life to years. And disease and suffering become unbearable. Is it always worth living for? And how long? If society has guaranteed the good to live, why should it not guarantee the good to die? Because all this needs a general regulatory framework beyond merely punitive, we need to tackle the phenomenon of euthanasia, assisted suicide, etc., with legal tranquillity and political calm free of prejudice and in the spirit of providing solutions to real problems of many people. This is an important step today and, as such, the Basque Parliament has already adopted, in plenary session on 4 June 2015 with the votes of the PNV, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and Euskal Herria Bildu, a non-law proposal urging the Government of Spain to amend article 143 of the Criminal Code to decriminalize assisted suicide. As a party, we have reflected - and a lot - on this issue from all its aspects: politics, social, health, ethics; we have even included this debate in the electoral programme with which we are presenting ourselves to this House, and that is why we share the proposal that comes to us from the Parliament of Catalonia. We believe that with great seriousness, caution, professionalism and responsibility we must take the step of decriminalizing what has been called assisted suicide. In other words, it is not possible to penalize anyone who, from a professional point of view, with all the guarantees of requirement, medical observation of incurable pathology and unbearable suffering, collaborates by helping a person who wishes to die because he cannot live. And do you know how unbearable it can be to not be able to live and not be able to die? I believe that, as I said earlier, the autonomous communities are ahead of this House, far ahead, but they cannot cross borders so that their laws are completely complete because they are closed from here and that is why this proposal comes today, so that the door that is needed can be opened. You express this very well in your Charter of Rights and Duties of Citizens, in relation to health, in the section on the right to live the final process of life which you set out in the preamble to this proposal. In any case, from a purely legal perspective, there is no doubt that a situation of security and certainty is sought for professionals and others who can develop and participate in this activity on time. This is undoubtedly a question of a strong ideological and even religious burden, which could determine certain peculiar and controversial interpretations within the framework of criminal jurisdiction, which would introduce doses of insecurity by characterizing this action as suicide cooperation or even qualify such action as homicide, in the event that there was no mere cooperation due to the patient's inability to perform any action. In order to avoid such a situation and to ensure the certainty and universalization of the interpretation sought, disposing it of any ideological or religious prejudice, it would be necessary, in addition to the decriminalization in the terms of the proposition, a legal instrument that regulates with different formulas the right to one's own life and, therefore, to one's own death. That is, a law of disposition and sovereignty over one's own life that guarantees free personal autonomy. Obviously, it should have certain unquestionable conditions, such as free and unequivocal petition, serious illness that necessarily leads to death, incurable pathology, severe and permanent physical or mental suffering, and peaceful and painless death. This would ensure a uniform judicial interpretation and avoid interpretative disputes that could lead to insecurity in the performance of professionals. I'm finishing up because I'm running out of time. It is, therefore, time for us to start to put aside the races by leaving our own mark, because here have come proposals from one party and another - and another has just been registered - and I think it is time for us to take the bull by the horns and truly legislate in this matter. As I said in my previous intervention, the human being, conscious of his mortal nature, has sought well-being in life and surely neglected the good end, since agony and suffering were innate at the end of life, but social and health evolution make people change and see also in dignified death the end that every citizen, every human being must have for himself, whenever he can choose to do so. My group's position on this issue has always been clear and free, ready to face the debate and generate a legislative body that combines the desire and need of those who are in a position to specify help to die with the legal guarantees of those who participate in it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs Capella.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vergès, Mrs Escarp and Mrs Ribas, Members of Parliament Catalonia, welcome to the Spanish General Courts. The purpose of the proposed law submitted by the Parliament of Catalonia, amending the Criminal Code and, therefore, decriminalizing euthanasia and helping suicide is nothing other than the defence of the right to a dignified death and in accordance with the dignity and freedom of the person proclaimed in article 10.1 of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, this proposition of law that comes from the Parliament of Catalonia speaks of life, speaks of freedom; yes, it defends freedom to face life and freedom in order to face death. He talks about the autonomy of the will, the ability to decide, the freedom to face how we want to live life but also the freedom to decide what that final part of our lives is to be. This bill upholds the right to a dignified life and to a dignified death. From Esquerra Republicana, practically in every legislature, let alone in all, we have defended the right to a dignified death, thus collecting the feeling of a very important part of the citizenry and of the entities that have worked and worked to defend the right to dignified death, as is the case of the Asociació pel Dret a Morir Dignament de Catalunya, which today accompanies us here and to whom we greet because we are very happy that they are among us, among other things for the enormous work that they have always done defending the right to die dignifiedly. In this regard, in the last reform of the Criminal Code, which took place in the 10th Legislature, we call for the decriminalization of euthanasia, also regrettably at that time without success. In the case of Catalonia, the rationale for decriminalization is the joint work of civil society associations and political representatives, which is reflected in the report on euthanasia and suicide aid drawn up by the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia in 2006, carried out at the request of the Department of Salutation of the Generalitat of Catalonia; a rigorous and up-to-date study that has served as a basis for supporting this proposed law that we are going to discuss today. Once again, the evolution of citizenship goes far ahead of the law and the law, despite the fact that it is an issue on which there has been no willingness by the Government of the State to assume it, regardless of its colour. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaims that all human beings are born free and equal in freedom and rights, a freedom that, we understand, must not be lost at any time in life, nor in the final process leading to death. Article 10.1 of the Spanish Constitution, to which it referred, also expresses fundamental characteristics of the democratic and legal State when it affirms that the dignity of the person, the inviolable rights inherent in him, the free development of personality, respect for the law and the rights of others are the foundation of the political order and social peace. The fundamental rights of the person proclaimed in the Constitution are therefore inherent in his or her dignity and have material content. However, these cannot be understood in a contradictory way with what is provided by the above-mentioned precept, which must be regarded as a precept of a governing type of the constitutional interpretation of rights and freedoms. In other words, the fundamental rights of the individual derive from the proclamation of their dignity as the foundation of the political order and social peace and in accordance with the higher values of the legal order proclaimed in the article of the fundamental norm itself. An interpretation that must be inclusive of life and freedom and, consequently, an interpretation of article 15 of the right to life, in the light of the free development of personality, therefore obliges one to consider that life imposed against the will of its holder can never merit the qualification of a protected legal good. In other words, and for us to understand: life is a right, not an obligation or a duty and, therefore, this eternal fictitious confrontation between life and freedom, supposedly resolved by the formal prevalence of one over another based on criteria such as systematic management, the intensity of criminal legal protection or natural biological priority, must be rejected. The criminal legal regulation of suicide-related conduct must be addressed from a perspective based on the principles set out above and which consequently affirms the recognition of the availability of life itself and, correlatively, the right to die. Even so, the Constitutional Court itself recognizes that the right to life is a right of individual disposition and that there is no doubt that the transit to a dignified death is part of the most intimate of a human being. In other words: there is no obligation, as we said, to live life. Life is not a duty, it is not an obligation. The State must protect life, of course, it must guarantee the right to a dignified life, too, but what it cannot do is to impose life and in all circumstances. The conception of the right to life that implies the maintenance of this right, even against the will of its holder, must give way to conceptions more in line with those of an aconfessional State, respect for individual freedom and the right to self-determination that we all have as individuals. The legal system is therefore called upon to give concrete effect to and protect the right to a dignified death, which are enshrined in the current legislation, as we said in article 10 of the Spanish Constitution when it proclaims the dignity of the person, the inviolable rights inherent in him, the free development of personality, respect for the rights of others as the foundation of the political order and social peace. Therefore, as Ramon Sampedro said, a desired death to free himself from irreparable pain is always a good. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Catalan Parliament, especially the representatives of the Republican Left of Catalonia and the PDECAT, because their presence here today shows that it is in this house, in the Congress of Deputies, where the things that affect all Spaniards are decided, whether their right to live or die or their right to live in a whole and non-separated nation. This is where things are decided, and you today recognize that this is the place where they are to be discussed. [[Applauds]] This is the common home of all Spaniards, and if it depends on us, it will remain so for many years. Why are we here today? What brings us here today? Today we have a new proposal to decriminalize suicide, to amend the Criminal Code. A year ago we discussed this aspect in this Congress itself and what we have to ask ourselves is what has changed, if there is anything new, whether the proposal that brings us here today provides any guarantee or whether the circumstances have changed; that is what we are going to talk about here today. Look at you, I said it a year ago in this House and I repeat it today: no one has the exclusive compassion in this Parliament. Throughout this year of presentation of the law on rights and guarantees at the end of life - that is what is called the proposed law that is being treated; it is not a palliative law, it is only a law on rights and guarantees - throughout this year, I can assure you that I have seen in all parliamentary groups people with compassion, worried about the fate of their fellow citizens. No one has the exclusivity of compassion; but this is not enough, it is not a contest. This is not a contest of empathy, this is not a contest of who is more empathetic, of who puts more into the skin of others. This is a Parliament, and in Parliament the rules are made, the laws are made; the rules and laws that guarantee our rights. Here we decide the fate of each and every citizen, therefore, because all of us here have decided the fate of all our citizens, we cannot engage in this debate either frivolously or as if it were a theater, seeking applause. And since the proposals that were brought to this Congress did not gather sufficient guarantees, we abstained, and, consequently, we did not profile ourselves and presented a bill of rights and guarantees at the end of life that contains a number of aspects; later I will detail its state of evolution. And look, it's not that I don't bring anything else, it's that I bring much less; much less: less security, less protection. In such a serious matter it only provides protection for those who practice euthanasia, but forgets the Spanish, forgets the patients who suffer, forgets the people to whom we are addressing from this Parliament. It is not a law for patients, it is not a law for people who suffer, it is a law to ensure the safety of those who collaborate in euthanasia or assisted suicide. It is a law, as has been said here repeatedly, that needs a framework, but it also mixes two things: terminally ill, serious, with non-terminal situations, potentially reversible suffering. This is an important matter and it is not appropriate to mix the two because they are absolutely different. Here we have talked about the right to decide and the right to die with dignity. It's two completely different matters and I'll detail it later. You say - it is said here today and it will be said later - that it does not matter because the framework of this law, of this decriminalization, will bring it the proposal that the PSOE has submitted in solitary last week. What if he doesn't prosper? What if the Socialist Party's bill was not successful? Where would judges, doctors, patients be left, with a Criminal Code that has decriminalized assisted suicide and without a framework? Where would we stay? Can it be more frivolous? Is it not more logical to discuss the framework first and then decriminalize it? What would we look like if a single article law were processed, as it could be processed, and we didn't have the framework? Mr Chamber, a year ago you accused Podemos of seeking confrontation, humiliation and lack of consensus. He said there was a lack of consensus because they had not gone to talk to you to introduce a law. Literally, he said they were only looking for medals. After what you did last week, you are the Mark Spitz of this Congress. If there is nothing new in this law, what has changed? Has anything changed? Has the case law that Mr Chamber spoke about last year changed? Has the Constitutional ruling changed? Do we have that basic law that was indispensable in order to develop the law? You said it yourself: It is essential to have a basic law first. That basic law was introduced and is being debated, but we don't have it. And what does that basic law say? What do we want him to say? What's the status of the paper? Our law is not a palliative law. He talks about the right to early and truthful information, about the right to end charitable lies; he talks about the obligation to inform, about the right to a living will at the time of diagnosis; he talks about the right to decide on treatment, yes or no; he talks about the right to palliative care. There are 60,000 people in this country - it has been repeated today - who are dying with suffering because they do not have palliative care and we are going to offer them now again, before offering palliative care and other things, assisted suicide. It also speaks of the right to sedation; not of indication, but of the right to sedation of all patients, which will be reflected in our law, and of the right to privacy. He speaks of all these things; it is not just a law of palliative care, it is not just this. Can you imagine where the doctors who practice sedation would be if the standard was approved? If a doctor practices sedation and applies this rule, what will he have done? Is he going to have a suicide assisted or not? Let me tell you a little anecdote. Last January I accompanied my mother-in-law in her last days. He had multiple metastasis breast cancer and began with respiratory difficulty, probably as a result of radic pneumonitis or carcinomatous lymphangitis. We started treating him, and we couldn't get him to improve or lower his dyspnea. She was fully conscious, lucid, and asked me: Paco, will you help me? I said: Yes, of course; of course I will help you - I knew what it meant because we had talked many times about sedation -. He also asked me if I was allowed and answered him: Yes, quiet, it is allowed - he was not worried about the permission of this House or the permission of the laws, but another permission because he looked at the ceiling -. We sedated her the next day so that her children and grandchildren would arrive. They all came, their four children and their seven grandchildren. We sang songs of Santander, read the epistle to Timothy twenty times, gave messages to all of us and asked us to pay for the water gym. Anyway, he left it all done. When she began to fall asleep and went to see if she was sedated, she opened her eyes and told me something that I won't forget: Paco, don't be in a hurry. For this is what I say to you: Lords, do not be hasty; do not be hasty. Let's do things right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs Sibina Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u20	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a very special recognition of the DMD Association, Association Right to Die Dignity, and a loving memory of Luis Montes. I would like to begin by thanking the Catalonian Parliament for the proposal it brings to the debate today and the representatives of this Parliament, Mrs Alba Vergés, Mrs Assumpta Escarp and Mrs Marta Ribas, for their support of the issue we are discussing. Today's proposal from the Catalonian Parliament on decriminalization of euthanasia is, among other things, an exercise of courage that looks at a complex debate before which the institutions representing citizens cannot be profiled. Another of the virtues of this proposal that we are debating today is that it is able to reflect politically a consensus that already exists in society, both in Catalan and in the rest of the state, which in the Catalan Parliament translates into strong parliamentary support of 73 % and which has only 9 % of the votes against. Unfortunately, it does not always happen, but from time to time parliaments become instruments of representation of popular wills and their needs. During the process of drawing up the proposal we are discussing today, one of the Members of the Catalonian Parliament, Mrs Àngels Martínez Castells, clearly summarized the importance of this proposal. He said: People grow when they face the end of life and, when we think of it as a society, we also grow collectively. For today, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us and ourselves to live up to and put an end to a democratic anomaly which meant that, while 78% of the population was in favour of regulating and decriminalising euthanasia, their representatives refused to do so. Having consulted with the various groups in this House, it seems that today the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia will have sufficient support to move forward and leave behind some inevitable resistance. I am talking about the resistance of the PP which, despite the fact that 70% of its voters are in favour of these measures, continues to refuse to legislate. I must also say that I am not surprised. The PP has always been on the wrong and retrograde side of history; it went through divorce, it went through abortion and now it goes through euthanasia. They have always been so and, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that social and political progress always comes despite the PP. As far as Citizens and their abstention are concerned, we believe that the proposal deserves active support in order to build consensus and not profile. As for Mr Igea's criticisms, they are excuses to continue in indefiniteness, to continue exercising that opportunism that characterizes the lords of Citizens so much when it comes to issues of relevance. Gentlemen of Citizens, it is clear that a path is beginning today. It is clear that things are missing to be done. That's exactly why we're here. In fact, this is our job: to take steps, to seek solutions and to build agreements. What is not worth saying is that, since there is no consensus, we do not take any steps. The spokesman for Citizens, Mr Igea, said that the amendment of the Criminal Code could not be approved because there was no law regulating euthanasia, because there were no controls, witnesses, responsibilities, examinations and assessments. Don't look for excuses, you can reform the article of the Criminal Code, you can leave it subject to the development of a regulatory framework and you can establish a parallel and coordinated process to give legislative response. This is exactly our job, and that's why he put our citizenship here. Finally, and in relation to the PSOE's position, the first thing is to acknowledge that its favourable vote is very, very good news and helps to open the way that has been closed to the debate for so long. Just from the recognition to that change I want to make some reflections looking back but with the very sincere spirit of being able to look forward. Fifteen months ago our parliamentary group introduced a law to start the debate on euthanasia, but it was not possible for it to go forward. At that time, the PSOE decided that it was not the time to debate and closed the doors not only to a law of our group but to the people and professionals who have been working on the subject for so many years. Of that fifteen months ago, and it turns out that until last Tuesday, when the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia came, the PSOE had forgotten the subject. If the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia arrived on Tuesday morning, Thursday at noon the PSOE recorded a proposal for a law of euthanasia. The headline of the public newspaper three days ago summarized it in a sentence that seems to me to be key: The PSOE now presents a law of euthanasia after rejecting that of Podemos. I have read your law and the truth is that I find it difficult to understand why fifteen months ago they rejected ours, because they are almost flattened, ladies and gentlemen, they are flattened. [[Applauds]] The few differences that could be found could have been worked on in a paper that could have started fifteen months ago. I insist, I do not say this in the spirit of looking back to make criticisms, I say this on two very important issues - and I am finishing, Mr President - that we will have to bear in mind: The first question has to do with that we must be aware that always, but more in this case, time is a very important factor and, as I told you fifteen months ago, there are people suffering, there are people who cannot wait any longer and there are people for whom, unfortunately, we are once again late. It is imperative that we do our job well and that we do it when it plays. And the second question has to do with a fact that today, with the joy of this approval, we cannot be overlooked. Much work remains to be done after this adoption, and it would be very serious if what we approved today remained in a drawer pending the adoption of the remaining necessary measures. Fifteen months ago, the door was closed at the start of the work. Today I ask you to speed up that work and not keep the ads in a drawer after getting a few headlines. We will support the present PSOE or the present Parliament of Catalonia, which today, as many times, teaches us ways of freedom and commitment to the will of the people. The path we are taking today no longer tolerates further delay or tacticism. Another time very much thanks to Members of the Parliament of Catalonia for being here. Thank you, President, and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u22	Thank you, President. Very good late, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to remind the recently deceased Dr. Luis Montes and thank the members of the associations defending the right to death, and especially DMD Catalunya, for their presence here today and for the work they are doing. Welcome and welcome. [[Applauds]] His initiative came to the Parliament of Catalonia and was collected by our parliamentary group, by the PSC, as well as other groups. The Members who are accompanying us today, together with other representatives, worked hard and a consensus was reached that allowed us to be here today to talk about the right of people to a good death, and this, good death, is not and should not be an oxymoron, it should not be in any case. We live in a society in which we reject everything that has to do with Tánatos, I the first; it bothers us, we do not like to think about it, about death, although we know it irremediable, inherent in life. When we become older and lose loved ones, their memory hurts, their absence hurts and, many times, the memory of how they died, because, perhaps, we saw them suffer, because they probably suffered a agony that we would have liked to save them. Forty years ago, we adopted a Constitution that guarantees us the right to life, a fundamental right that accompanies the right to physical and moral integrity, but also constitutionally protected property, the dignity, freedom and autonomy of the will. All these constitutional rights and principles must therefore be made compatible. Today we are debating the admission to the procedure of the proposed law on the reform of the Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code, for the decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid to suicide, presented by the Parliament of Catalonia, a proposal that asks us to amend article 143, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code. Catalonia has always been a pioneer in the legislation on the rights of patients - anticipated wills, fight against therapeutic bleeding, palliative care - and in recent years there have been different autonomous laws on dignified death in Andalusia, Navarre, Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands, for example. It is now also Catalonia that brings this proposal to the Congress of Deputies, but if it succeeds, as we hope and wish, it will benefit all Spanish citizens as a whole. In the same way, the Socialist Party has been and continues to be a pioneer and pointer in the extension of civil liberties in our country, although some weigh it. As PSOE Secretary General Pedro Sánchez said, on the occasion of the presentation of our bill to regulate euthanasia, it is inevitable to link the great progress in the field of civic rights and freedoms in Spain with the initiative and momentum that the Socialist Party has always had. We have done so from the Government and also from the opposition. In June 2015, the PP avoided taking into consideration a proposal for a socialist law on dignified death. We wanted and want the entire Spanish territory to have that right guaranteed, which is not yet the case. That initiative reflected the text of the draft already approved in 2011 by the Zapatero Government, which fell for obvious reasons, and we re-registered it in early 2017. Citizen's was not, much less, the first, Mr. Igea. It's not a contest, of course not!, but everyone's own thing. [[Applauds]] If in 2011 we did not rush, we sought consensus and participated in the elaboration of that proposed health sector associations and patient organizations, we also did not want to rush on the occasion of the proposed organic law regulating euthanasia registered last day 3. We have opted for a calm debate, with renowned health and legal experts and with dialogue with associations such as those present here, and the result of all this is a serious and rigorous legislative initiative. It was because it lacked these requirements and, consequently, it presented important deficiencies so we rejected a year ago the proposal of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Unfortunately, Mrs Sibina, not because we do not want to open our eyes to a painful reality, which exists, and to which we want to give an answer, the response that Spanish society is asking for, as we have shown with our proposal for a law. [[applause]] The demand that comes to us from the Parliament of Catalonia speaks of several requirements for a law of disposition on one's own life: a clear definition of the concepts, the realization of the conditions for carrying out euthanasia and assisted medical suicide, the assumptions in which it could be requested, requirements that must be met by the healthcare staff involved and, finally, with regard to the oversight and control bodies. All this is contained in our proposal. A regulation that is essential according to the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights, which already, in 2013, ruled that it would be unacceptable, and unacceptable, a country that decriminalizes euthanasiaal behaviors that does not have a specific legal regime that specifies the modalities of practices of such behaviors. Similarly, the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, in its recommendations of 2006, calls for such regulation and refers to the need to amend article 143 of the Spanish Criminal Code in order to clearly exclude from the criminal sphere the actions of health professionals whose aim is to help patients die when they are in an irrecoverable situation. Our proposal states that these professional conducts will not be punishable when they conform to the terms set out in the law. So, logically and consequently, we agree to accept this proposal from the Catalonian Parliament and we trust that it will be dealt with in a way that is accompanied by our proposal for regulation. We are convinced and convinced that it is the most convenient and the most appropriate. And Mr. Igea, we have no doubt that our bill will prosper and will be the law regulating euthanasia in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guinart. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u24	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Catalan Parliament who have travelled to this House this afternoon to defend their initiative. Thank you very much and welcome. It is true that last year, in 2017, we had the opportunity to discuss euthanasia. I myself had the opportunity to defend the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this, and from this rostrum I set out the reasons, the reasons why we opposed and voted against these initiatives. All the groups did. As I say, I did it on behalf of my parliamentary group, and I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that it will not be the last time we speak in this House about euthanasia, because in this kind of career that some have to arrive, they do not know very well where neither who the first nor who the second, or being the most modern or the most progressive, I think we still have some more debate on this matter. Well, the People's Parliamentary Group has not changed its position; we are voting against these initiatives and today we are voting against them as well. And let me tell you that in addition to those reasons, reasons or arguments that I put forward in order not to vote in favour, today we have some more, as I will try to put it. To begin with, we cannot vote in favour of this initiative because the only thing it proposes is an amendment to the Criminal Code. From this rostrum it has been said that a law will come that will be processed together, but that is a desideratum, it is a future that we do not know. At the moment, the only thing that arises is an amendment to the Criminal Code; of a Criminal Code, which does precisely what it does, is to provide protection to the person who is at this crucial stage of their existence, preventing any third party from deciding when or how that end is to be in the life of a patient. The decision as to whether or not to cure a disease or a serious situation that may lead to the end of life must be taken by a qualified staff and not by anyone who believes in the possession of the information that enables him or her to make the decision to cooperate in the death of a person, even if he or she is asked to do so. That is precisely the basis of article 143.4 of the Criminal Code, ladies and gentlemen, to provide protection to the person who is in that transit. From here I made reference in those debates to the reasons or arguments for the risk to the weakest of a law of euthanasia, of the weakening of the patient's confidence in the health system, of the slippery slope, that although it has been said that no, it is true that it falls into the slippery slope, and it has already happened in some of the countries that have regulated it; moreover, if one of the fundamental arguments that defend themselves in favor of euthanasia is that individual freedom, that personal autonomy, that self-determination, and that authorizes a person to decide when and how to end his life, the right to freedom should not be limited or may not be limited to the terminally ill. With this, it is true that this slippery slope occurs and from it warns, moreover, many professionals or people who would not ethically be against euthanasia, but who do see the risk of legalization. He also referred in those arguments to professional competence in palliative care and euthanasia petition, and it is that rigorous studies show us how when progress is made in palliative care the number of euthanasia petitions decreases. And here comes that argument which to a greater extent told you that the People's Parliamentary Group has this afternoon, and that is that we are already working in this House, ladies and gentlemen, on a presentation on the rights and guarantees of the end-of-life process. That is where the priority lines on which we must continue to work are really being put on the table. [[Rumors]] There we are talking about the rights and guarantees that must accompany this final moment, the right to die according to the wishes previously expressed in a vital will, the right to reject useless treatments, the right to die in personal and family privacy accompanied by loved ones without physical, psychological or spiritual suffering... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u25	Wait a minute, Mrs. Cortés. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u26	...of the right to die peacefully and peacefully, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party is sometimes accused of being alone in this defense, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not alone. Article 15 of the Constitution itself does not contain a right to death itself, nor does it include the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights or various international texts. This morning I've been at the presentation of a book, which I'm going to teach you: Doctor, don't do everything you can! I recommend it to everyone, because there are a number of things in it that we are probably going to spend more than 50% of what we are in this House, and from what I have heard there I have come up with a number of questions that I am going to ask you here today. You are defending an initiative - and it seems very good to me - for which you have spoken with many associations and professionals, but I want to ask you something, because this presentation took place at the headquarters of the College Medical Organization, right across the street. Ladies and gentlemen, have you talked to the healthcare professionals, all the doctors? Have you told the doctors who now want to see euthanasia among their duties, to assist a citizen who so requests in his suicide? Have you explained to them that now you are not only going to have to heal, but that you want to move on to manage or cause death? Have you explained to them that while they complain that the academic training they receive in their faculties does not prepare them enough to face the final process of their patients' lives, they will now also have to cause them to die? Have you asked them all that, ladies and gentlemen? Because, as they say, euthanasia does not belong to medicine. Euthanasia is against being a doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the only answer that medicine and society give to a patient who is in the final process of his life is to advance his death. They have to offer you something else, society must convey the message that these sick are not a burden, that they are no burden and that they will help you, because the patient, ladies and gentlemen, does not want to die. [[Applauds]] The patient will not ask to die, no one wants to die; what the patient wants is to live without suffering or pain, and for that suffering and that pain the medicine has other ways of care, such as palliative care. Here we have talked about existential suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, for existential suffering medicine has no answer, because it does not belong to the field of medicine, but it is obliged to give an answer to that existential suffering and the only thing that is asked of it is that it manages death. For psychological suffering and for physical suffering, medicine does have an answer, such as palliative care, which, although they do not fix everything, constitute the answer that medicine has for the terminally ill. As the book Doctor says, do not do everything possible!, it is not necessary to do everything possible; what must be done is to seek a worthy death, we must help to die well. I'm done, Mr. President. A terminally ill person, or an discharged patient, is not in the hands of science, it is not about increasing his suffering in the name of science. The response of medicine must be to do everything possible to avoid pain and suffering and to ensure that the patient dies in the best possible way, but cannot cause death. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u28	We shall now turn to the next item on the agenda, which concerns the consideration of the proposal for a law, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is an organic body amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to transpose directives of the European Union in the areas of finance and terrorism, and to address issues of an international nature. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, Mrs Blanco Garrido, and I ask you again to remain silent, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing to this House, for consideration, a proposal for an amending organic law on the Criminal Code; an initiative that responds to the objectives of transposing the directives of the European Union which have an impact on criminal matters and of addressing other international issues of a criminal nature as well. Ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanatory statement, Spain has been consistently meeting the transposition objectives of the deadlines. That is why it is now necessary to transpose several directives of a criminal nature without delay, either as a result of the expiry of the deadline or because of the proximity of that deadline, although it is true that this delay is not due to the lack of will of the Government but to the lost year, in 2016, loaded with uncertainty and instability thanks to the parliamentary group of the no-no and of those who applauded thinking that, on the basis of repeated elections, their turn could reach them. [[Applauds]] Therefore, these last words of response to the criticisms that I assume the rest of the groups will make to the Government for the delay in transposing some directive when they come up to the rostrum. That is why this initiative contributes to the interest that we believe must be shared by all the parliamentary groups, which is nothing other than that of completing the transposition into our legal system, as I said, of the various European directives. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now briefly explain to you the main objectives of transposing these directives, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Directive 2014/57, on penalties applicable to market abuse, provides for three different criminal types in which Member States are required to classify as criminal offences at least in serious cases and where they have been committed intentionally: insider dealing, including the recommendation or inducement of another person to carry out insider dealing; insider dealing and market manipulation, in order to ensure, first, the integrity of the Union's financial markets and, secondly, to increase investor protection and thereby confidence in those markets. In addition, it requires the consideration as criminal offences of acts of incitement, complicity and attempt of such operations, as well as the liability of legal persons in relation to the commission of such criminal acts. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish a system of supervision, inspection and sanction harmonised throughout the European Union. In short, it is about achieving greater legal certainty, achieving uniformity in the conditions of application of the legislation; it is about avoiding facts such as the one that allowed the marketing of complex financial products to hundreds of thousands of private savers and that led to more than 600,000 Spaniards being scammed by the famous preferents, by the way, with the satisfaction of the Government of Zapatero. And that's not what I'm saying, but what I said was that I was president of the CNMV here in parliamentary office. [[Applauds]] With regard to the transposition of Directive 2017/541 on combating terrorism, it is necessary to bring criminal legislation into line with the provisions of the directive, although it is true that our legislation on terrorist offences goes far beyond the content of that directive. Spain, unfortunately, is well aware of the suffering and horror caused by terrorism. For decades we have suffered the vignettes of ETA and the jihadists - attacks in Madrid and Barcelona - so we have been working for a long time to have the right tools to deal with this threat and thus defeat it. And we have achieved this, thanks to the strength and firmness of our rule of law, achieving the dissolution of those who so much pain and suffering sown throughout Spain without achieving anything of what they were pursuing through bombs and pistols; a dissolution of those who have tried to stage their defeat as a victory in an obscene and humiliating way with the collaboration of some, as is the case with Podemos. This parliamentary group and this Government, on the other hand, will always be on the side of the victims, as they have always shown, defending memory, dignity and justice, making a clear difference with those who, in the face of the dissolution of ETA by the rule of law, have rushed to talk about changes in prison policy, about benefits for those who have neither repented nor helped to clarify the more than 300 unsolved crimes to this day. [[applause]] In this connection, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work to increase the protection of victims, we will continue to push forward the European Charter for Victims of Terrorism, we will continue with legislative amendments to be even more effective, if possible, in the fight against terrorism, such as those we bring to this House today, ladies and gentlemen, which seek, first of all, to impose a maximum penalty on the leaders of an organization or terrorist group superior to that contained in the current regulation, going from fourteen years to fifteen years and a penalty of absolute disqualification. Secondly, to include in terrorist offences documentary falsity, something that was not provided for in our Criminal Code, as well as a broader regulation of travel for terrorist purposes by not requiring the directive that the travel should have as its destination a territory controlled by terrorists, as is currently reflected in our regulations. Finally, to extend the criminal liability of legal persons to the commission of any kind of terrorist offence, which was so far envisaged only for terrorist financing offences. In short, greater protection for victims and better instruments for every day to be more effective in the fight against terrorism, with the clear aim of ensuring that the new forms do not endanger again our dignity, our freedom and, ultimately, our democratic coexistence, which has cost us so much pain and so much suffering. In relation to Directive 2017/1371 on combating fraud, which affects the financial interests of the Union through criminal law, this entails harmonised regulation of such frauds, as well as the criminalisation of other conduct closely linked to them, such as money laundering, cohabiting and embezzlement. One of the first developments brought about by the directive is the increase in the fee for criminal offences, to which the relevant articles have been adapted. The directive also requires that any of the offences provided for in it, including the offence of embezzlement, be punishable when committed by a legal person. That is why legal persons are also responsible for the offence of misappropriation - a criminal type of those regulated by the directive which did not admit our order - of those legal persons who, for any reason, manage public resources or in any other way are in charge of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax fraud is a priority for this People's Party government. That is why we will continue to intensify as many actions as are necessary in this struggle. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the demagogy of some there is the commitment of this government, a commitment translated into a real flood of legislative measures adopted to combat tax fraud - by the way, with the vote against the Socialist Party - measures that allowed for historical collection results, exceeding EUR 65 billion. On the other hand, it is also necessary to improve the transposition of Directive 2014/62 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting, with the clear aim of broadening the range of penalties that may be imposed on legal persons when they are criminally responsible for such criminal acts. It also proposes to improve the wording of article 387 of the Criminal Code for cases in which criminal protection of the currency is anticipated - this is important - at the stages prior to its official entry into circulation, thus obtaining greater legal certainty. With regard to the prevention and prosecution of organ trafficking, I would like to state that organ trafficking is a problem of a global dimension, which violates fundamental rights such as, inter alia, human dignity and poses a serious threat to public health. In fact, the World Health Organization estimates that every year around 10,000 transplants are carried out clandestinely in the world. Spain has been a pioneer in incorporating organ trafficking into the Criminal Code, to which it makes explicit reference by establishing penalties of up to twelve years in prison, providing for a number of articles aimed at preventing crime and protecting its victims. However, it is necessary to make some amendment to the Criminal Code in order to adapt it to the provisions contained in the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs, a convention which became the first European pact to prosecute trafficking in organs as a crime and where, once again, Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has played a fundamental role in both its gestation and its development. In fact, it was opened for signature in Santiago de Compostela in March 2015. Among these modifications that are intended is the need to establish the assumptions of organization or criminal group action in a similar way to the treatment in these cases of the crime of trafficking in human beings, including also the prediction of the aggravating of international recidivism and increasing the control of new risks, such as organized crime groups. Ultimately, it is a matter of being more effective in combating and preventing trafficking in human organs through substantive criminal law measures and thereby protecting victims. Finally, with this reform, which we are debating today for consideration, some omissions that were identified in the 2015 reform of the Criminal Code will also be resolved and would be in line with the criteria set out in the Greek report. Thus, the terms: request, receive, accept promise or offer that has an advantage, whether or not it involves acting against what is prescribed by law. And all this in order to clearly delineate the conduct in the crimes of corruption in business thus avoiding that on the basis of mere terminology technicalities clearly corrupt activities can be excluded. The corruption of jurors and arbitrators will also be reviewed, not only in the exercise of public functions, but also when they act as collaborators or exercise in the private sphere, both by action and by omission. It is also necessary to explicitly include criminal liability for the offence of trafficking in influence by persons defined in article 427 of the Criminal Code as foreign public officials, who so far could not be required. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, greater commitment to the fight against corruption by recalling that already in the 10th Legislature the President of the Government proposed a pact for the fight against corruption that was not accepted by the majority party at the time of the opposition and that is why we undertook in solitary a package of measures for regeneration, the largest package of measures that has been adopted in our history. I'm done, Mr. President. The People's Parliamentary Group hopes that this important initiative, this proposal for an organic law will be taken into consideration, and to that end I would like to count on its support for the firm objective of implementing Community legislation, which gives greater legal certainty to States and thus to citizens, and thereby also to assume our responsibility as a State. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. White Garrido. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me pay tribute in my first speech this afternoon to Juan Morano, who passed away last Saturday, deputy during six legislatures and senator in the X until 2015, and who was a great defender of Leon from whose capital he was mayor fourteen years. One is my excited memory of his family, friends and countrymen, of his colleagues and parliamentary colleagues, and of all those who had the privilege of meeting the irreducible, great politician and great Spanish Juan Morano. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems necessary to take this into consideration in order to amend the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Penal Code, which has defended the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, the deputy María del Mar Blanco. Firstly, because our status as Community citizens obliges us to bring our legislative and regulatory framework into line with the directives of the European Union in time, and secondly, because the stalemate of the issues that are being amended is essential for our Criminal Code to affect, attack and punish new types of crime, ways of harming and causing harm to society. It is the dark case of the clandestine trafficking of organs, an updated form of slavery, a genuine black market of the twenty-first century that takes as victims people in desperate situations, cases of indigent and refugees, to whom it drags towards the so-called 'transplant tourism' and is forced to the donation of one of its organs to resolve their precarious personal situation or that of their family. With this legislative amendment we are making progress in this indispensable fight against organ trafficking, although it must be stressed that Spain has an accredited transplant system; in fact, we are world leaders and we are on the sidelines of this horrific market, which has a great impact on some geographical areas and on very vulnerable human groups. It is also proposed to amend Article 284 on market and consumer offences, in order to enhance protection against violence, threats or deception to alter prices, including the use of social networks to report individuals or businesses using artificial and false data. It also affects the amendment of the following article of the Criminal Code, 285, proposing a new wording to penalize the use of privileged information, extending and extending protection to the financial instruments, contracts, conduct and orders provided for in Community legislation, as well as in our market and financial instruments. Other changes to the text of this proposal refer to the misuse of public subsidies and the counterfeiting of currency, as well as a greater precision of the documentary falsehood in their relation to terrorist crimes. Nothing to add to the words of the spokesman for the People's Group on this issue of terrorism. In short, they are issues that expand, strengthen and point out the Criminal Code, an organic law on which the largest amount of legislative initiatives are pending, but today it is a question of dealing with the transposition of several directives in order to comply with Spain's obligations as a member of the European Union and to avoid sanctions resulting from non-compliance with deadlines. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor. I am sorry, Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols will speak for this group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u33	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mr President, I apologise to Mrs Ciuro, who will not be able to speak on behalf of our group. We are again on the day of the marmot; that is to say, the adoption of European directives late, bad and hasty, but I believe that this time we have surpassed ourselves - and this is the second time we have surpassed ourselves - because, instead of what is expected, the logical thing, the parliamentary thing, which is that the initiative is presented by the Government with the respective studies, it turns out that it is presented by the People's Parliamentary Group to save all the work of the preceptive studies in order to be able to present this European regulation. This, gentlemen, begins not to be received; it simply begins not to be received. As I recall, our group has never voted against the transposition of a European directive when it was brought by the government, by any government. But this is going to change because this habit of being brought by the People's Parliamentary Group is simply scandalous from a parliamentary technical point of view. So we're very sorry but this game has to end. You present the initiatives on directives when it touches, and you present them who has to present them as they have to, and then you will have our support. But this directive is not normal; it is true that it deals with three issues - in fact, four - for example, the illegal movement of organs, also corruption, but, gentlemen, it is also about amendments to the Criminal Code and the persecution of jihadism. That is, that you allow yourselves to bring late and evil to this Congress, in the midst of an alert 4, an issue that affects the security of all citizens. This is simply irresponsible, and I don't know if you will fix it as you do with the security issues of a time to this part: giving medals. If any misfortune happens, they also solve it with the'medalleo' corresponding to whoever it is. Maybe they won't accept it, like the good German cops who didn't accept it for arresting President Puigdemont. Gentlemen, make a serious security policy, a serious legislative policy, and this means that you bring reasons, that you bring justifications and not'medalling'. Do not replace reason with medals or legislative technique. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u35	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of a proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group for the reform of the Criminal Code with several objectives: first, to transpose four Union directives; secondly, to adapt it to a Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs of 2015, and also to adapt it to the parameters recommended by the Group of States against Corruption, Greek, of the Council of Europe, following its third evaluation round in which some omissions were detected in the 2015 reforms of the Criminal Code and which could entail limitations to the fight against corruption. This proposed law introduces three new articles in the current Penal Code and amends the wording of another twenty, which puts us on the track that we are faced with a relevant amendment of the Penal Code in non-balladized aspects as they affect criminal conduct linked to transactions with privileged information for disturbing the integrity of the Union markets and investor confidence, in accordance with Directive 2014/57, and also the fight against fraud affecting the Union's financial interests and other related conduct, such as money laundering, co-harvest and embezzlement, even when committed by legal persons who manage public resources, as provided for in Directive 2017/1371. It is also proposed to amend the Criminal Code to give better protection to the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting, in accordance with Directive 2014/62. Finally, with regard to the transposition of directives, it is 2017/54 that seeks to adjust the existing Criminal Code in anti-terrorism matters in such areas as, inter alia, documentary falsity, travel for terrorist purposes and the liability of even legal persons in the commission of any terrorist offence that was hitherto considered only for terrorist financing offences in the Criminal Code. Alongside these amendments to the Criminal Code on the occasion of the Union directives, there are others motivated by the full implementation of the recommendations made to Spain by the Group of Greek States following the third round of evaluation of the implementation of the Criminal Convention on Corruption and its Additional Protocol on 5 February 2016. Finally, it is also proposed to amend the Criminal Code to bring it into line with the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs. It is therefore, as we have already pointed out, a profound amendment to the Criminal Code, and what is surprising to us is that its promoter is the People's Parliamentary Group and not the Government, for several reasons. Firstly, because the fact that it is a parliamentary group - in this case the People's Group - its promoter implies the circumvention of the participation of the professional and social sectors affected by the draft norm and also the circumvention of the mandatory participation of organs of the General Administration of the State, the Prosecutor's Office, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State. The lack of opinions and reports of all these bodies deprives this House of its opinions, which are fundamental both for their constitutional relevance and for their technical competence and for their material need, being the regulated matter of direct impact on the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, therefore having a constitutional reservation of organic law, not to add that the implementation of Community law always demands the information work of the highest consultative body of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we were complaining in this House about the government's abuse of decree-laws but in 2018 it has not improved, but it has gone to worse by the use that the ruling party has made of its parliamentary group to, through it, make proposals for law, even organic ones, and the time has come to amend them. Secondly, the proposed law also implies non-compliance with the Government Action Plan, published on 8 February this year by the Ministry of Justice. This action plan is binding on the various ministries in the field of their competences and its objective is both to eliminate the risk of economic sanctions by failing to comply with the deadlines for transposition of Union law and to reiterate Spain's commitment to the European institutions to comply with Union rules. Well, the Ministry of Justice was set the target for 2018 to amend the Criminal Code to transpose three Union directives that are now presented to us not on the proposal of the Ministry but of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thirdly, we must draw attention to the failure to comply with the deadline for transposing Directive 2014/57 on criminal penalties applicable to market abuse, which expired almost two years ago on 3 July 2016, and for which Spain is in the process of being penalised by the Commission of the Union. This directive was published on 16 April 2014 and since that date three reforms of the Criminal Code have been made that have not been used to transpose the directive in time, all these years governing the People's Party and imposing at that time, with the absolute majority, those reforms of the Criminal Code. Nor since the inauguration of the President of the Government in this XII Legislature, which was on 29 October 2016, has any legislative initiative been taken by the Government to comply with the provisions of the aforementioned Directive 2014/57, and it is now the People's Parliamentary Group that presents it to us, which seems to us to be inexhaustible. At this point, it should be remembered that Spain is one of the countries leading the EU's ranking of non-compliances with its legislation and that there are currently 18 directives which have expired and another 6 which have expired this same month or the following June. Perhaps, and returning to the proposal for a law, we could understand, although not share, that we are presented by this procedure, irregularly politically but summarily, the processing of the transposition of the Directive already expired 2014/57 two years ago, but not the other three, since one of them has already been transposed and now it is only about improving its transposition, and the other two would win in September of this year and in July of which it comes. And with regard to the guidelines of the Group of States against Corruption and the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs, I must point out that they do not have time to incorporate them into the current Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, President - the Basque Parliamentary Group cannot support the processing of this proposal for a law to undertake such important reforms of the current Criminal Code as those which are intended in thirty-two of its articles to undermine the deadline for transposition of a directive and to minimise the impact of the infringement procedure opened by the Commission, since one thing could affect the failure to comply with the directive on market abuse and another very different one which is intended to deal with the rest of the reforms of the Criminal Code which are intended with this proposal rather than with a draft law and with all the dossier that must accompany it. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the legislative initiative. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am going to start this intervention by talking about deficits, but not in the usual economic sense, but by referring to the historic 3% deficit in the transposition of directives, since it provided the government in one of the budget appearances and from which it appears that in three out of every 100 directives of the European Union the government is going beyond the deadline and Spain is struggling to take on the corresponding sanctions, sanctions that import many billion euros a day, many millions that the government's inaction prevents us from devoting to education, health or pensions. Beyond such optimistic calculations or percentages, reality is another. The reality is what Mr. Legarda pointed out. Since 2012 and with Mr Rajoy's executive head of Spain leads the ranking of countries that have paid more fines for failing to comply with EU rules: 54 million euros squandered. And they still presume to be good managers. [[Applauds]] The Government's annual regulatory plan for 2018 - for this year, not for the year of the government in office - envisages the transposition of fifty-two Community directives and the reality is that we are already in May. This session will soon be over and the accounts will not go out. Very flat, but few rules so far. Our Government will have to wake up if it wants to prevent its desirousness from continuing to cost us a fortune to all Spaniards, especially because the European Union has changed its policy of sanctions and now operates the principle of non-desistance. I mean, we're not going to be forgiven any more, we're not going to be forgiven any more. But perhaps more reprehensible than the Government's own paralysis is its reaction when situations become urgent or urgent. I give you a recent example. Spain signed the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women in 2014 and, instead of implementing the reforms and measures contained therein during these four years, the Minister of Justice is surprised by a ruling that is largely the result of this lack of diligence, causing all associations of judges and prosecutors to request their resignation. So the Group of the European People's Party is presenting to us a proposal for an organic law transposing three Community directives into one attack: on combating terrorism, on combating fraud affecting the Union's financial interests and on sanctions for market abuse. We have little to say about its content, which responds to requirements arising from Community law. Citizens are a European party. We believe in the construction of a common European project and we also believe that the creation of a European judicial area in criminal matters is an important aspect of this process of European integration, harmonising procedural guarantees and based on cooperation and mutual recognition of judicial and evidence proceedings, a European judicial area that guarantees the equality of citizens before the law against those who do not hesitate to break the laws trying to raise new borders that divide and provoke inequality or against those who seek to break down Europe and bring us democracy from Iran or Venezuela and that I suppose they will have to criticise a great deal later on on, for example, the protection and confidence of investors and financial markets contained in this reform, whose mere reading I imagine will have caught them up. And, of course - it could not be otherwise - a European judicial area that guarantees freedom in the face of the new whitewashed tombs. We are betting on a Europe that stands alongside the innocent victims, unlike those who prefer to come out in the photo alongside the executioners and who will criticize this reform because it hardens the penalties for the leaders of terrorist organizations. [[Applauds]] Finally, this reform complements the regulation of corruption offences by complying with the recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek. We also have a huge delay in the implementation of these recommendations. We now want to correct some of the warnings received after the third round of evaluation carried out by that group when there has been a fourth evaluation and when it was precisely last week that the Greek published his annual report once again leaving our country in a terrible place. I quote the report: Spain and Belgium are the only two countries that have not fully implemented some of the recommendations; with 100%, they have the highest percentage of recommendations implemented only partially or not implemented. In short, the People's Party Government continues to drag its feet in the fight against corruption and in the independence of the judiciary, with the invaluable help of the Socialist Party. We are not surprised that in the recent CIS survey the concern for corruption has grown again among the Spaniards. In terms of form, we need to look to the People's Parliamentary Group to allow the Government to use it as a puppet to process this reform as a bill and not as a bill only to compensate for its disdain and delay, and thus force us to dispense with the corresponding mandatory reports that would have been very interesting and useful for further technical and detailed work. We will vote in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law - there is nothing else, it is a proper act - not without first finding that this government shows very little commitment to the European institutions. It does little and needs the help of the People's Parliamentary Group; it mistransposes, mixing markets with terrorism; and it transposes late, transferring its urgency to this House under the threat of sanctions. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u39	Mila esker. Pick it up on. I will try not to abuse the patience of your ladies and gentlemen, and I will therefore be as brief as possible as the two or three things we have to say. Simply put, we are going to advance the no to the bill that the People's Parliamentary Group brings for some form and some substance that I will be devoting myself to degenerate later on. Firstly, and by doing a little bit of pedagogy, it must be remembered that organic laws are so - and this is established in the Constitution - because they affect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. Therefore, citizenship requires a process in which there is much more transparency and many more elements of judgment are provided to know what is at stake. They are fundamental rights and freedoms which, moreover, in the case of the Criminal Code, can affect freedom, which is a higher value of the legal system and therefore would require - as has already been said here - greater motivation and concreteness. We and we are given the impression that the People's Parliamentary Group, at least recently, is doing the work little by little and is making a runway for a ministry that is looking elsewhere. He is really totally inactive and, when he arrives, he says some unique things that he should not normally say and that they put him in gardens that help little or nothing to build a democratic and peaceful society, which is what we and we want. From here, it is clear that there has been a non-small excuse from the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, when he said that this transposition is really late without anyone asking it, but possibly advancing what is logical and all groups have tried to reiterate. What draws our attention is that you say that you are late for the no and I don't know what stories, when there are directives of the year 2014 and others that could have been addressed in a codification committee that you have and whose technical competence and masculinity no one doubts so far. Therefore, take advantage of the ministry's resources and do the work they have to do. It is a task that the Government has to do, because it has already been said here that the debate has been stolen from society and that it has also been stolen from this House to have the mandatory reports that would have helped us to detonate technically an organic law that speaks in its statement about the financial and terrorist fields, which is what you are interested in stressing, but which in fact is a popurry that affects such disparate issues as market abuse with a novel protected legal asset, some aspects of terrorist crimes on which I will stop, fight against fraud, trafficking in human organs, counterfeiting of the euro or aspects of private corruption. That is, a totum revolutionum of technically and legally non-homogeneous issues that are difficult to address in a debate like this. This is not the first time that you have given the Government this hint of landing, which we are very much afraid is then used to place anything, stealing many times the right of amendment that parliamentary people in this House have. I will refer - not to abuse the will to live by your lordships - to some very specific issues. You are talking about issues relating to the completion of corruption crimes and the guidelines of the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek. As has already been said here, Spain and Belgium are the major violators of these recommendations made by this group of States, and you amplifiedly say in the explanatory statement that Spain, in its firm commitment to combating corruption, has collaborated permanently with the Greek. You will have to ask the Greek because in his recommendations he says exactly the opposite. When you've come to that point and you're just excited to think that you're going to transpose something, as society is really demanding that fight against corruption that you've claimed that you're heroically doing in solitude, it turns out that you're just transcribing some very concrete questions about mediators, experts, administrators, intervenors, jurors and national and international arbitrators. That's very good, but don't marry the supposed ampulosity with which you in the explanatory statement claim yourself as spearhead against corruption; make him look at it, please. Secondly, you intend to transcribe the directive on the fight against terrorism and say that although Organic Law 2/2015 has significantly advanced the content of the directive, some points diverge, which obliges you to make slight adjustments - literal -. It is not that you went ahead with the directive, it is that you have stopped, and what is happening with the crimes of terrorism in the Spanish State today is a clear violation of the principle of legality which is putting at risk the freedom of citizens in many specific aspects. I can refer, for example, in article 578 to Amnesty International's reports, which, despite the significant decline in terrorist activity, speaks of a single conviction in 2011 and, however, in 2016 and 2017 there were thirty-five and thirty-one, respectively. Not only that, but you deliberately ignore what it puts in point 10 of the directive, which says that offences of public provocation - I stress public provocation - must be defined when they are at risk of terrorist acts, that is, when they are effective for that purpose, for which the risk will be assessed, the specific circumstances of the case, etc. Let him also look at this issue, because the actual modification of terrorist offences in the current Criminal Code must be absolutely profound and not in the sense that you were sponsoring. In this connection, I will simply act as if I have not heard some of the issues that have been put before my parliamentary group. Finally, you are talking about the directive on penalties for market abuse. That delay is absolutely striking, as some other spokesman has already said, because it is nothing less than the year 2014 and is allegedly at risk of sanction. Therefore, you too arrive late and wrong, although there was a modification of the Penal Code in the year 2015 in which you ignored this issue Olympicly, perhaps because it was not in the interests of the people with whom you practice that interesting thing that is to enter and exit politics. Indeed, you are agitating - hence the title - the approach of market abuse as a criminal scarecrow to say that you are going to solve a problem, which will not be solved if you do not tackle in a definitive way another series of administrative, control and market regulation measures. So far they are not being overinterested in it, let me tell you. We shall therefore vote against it. Society expects from the ministry, not from its group, something else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing this afternoon a proposal for an organic law proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group, amending the Criminal Code, which refers to the financial and terrorist fields and other international issues. The title would already give for a good time of conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being asked to transpose a series of directives which, as we have been hearing in the afternoon - the few of us who are, but we are well aware of what we are saying - are a curious miscelane. 2014/57, of 16 April, regulates the criminal penalties applicable to market abuse, and has expired since July 2016. Secondly, the 2017/541 of 15 March on combating terrorism. Thirdly, another directive, also from Parliament and the Council, is the 2017/1371 on combating fraud to ensure the financial interests of the Union. A fourth, whose transposition was not successful, 2014/62, refers to the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies in order to forgery. Not satisfied with this, two packages are introduced, one through the Council of Europe Convention, signed in Santiago de Compostela, concerning the suppression of trafficking in human organs and, lastly - we have heard it also throughout all the speeches - a series of directives from the Greek Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party - well, the few who are - I will accuse you that with an act like this you are subject to a fraud of law, but first of all I want to tell you that you have great honesty and great candidity, because in the first paragraph of the explanatory statement of your proposal for a law you make it very clear what the essence of the will of the legislator is, which is nothing other than the fear of the sanction that the EUJC may impose by virtue of the Commission's intervention, and you explain it very well. The Treaty of Lisbon has put pressure on this issue. They explain that they fear these sanctions and that, therefore, we must run with the defeated and the ones they are about to overcome. I was telling them that what they're exercising today is a sort of law fraud. Why am I telling you this? I say this - it is not new, because we have coincided with almost all the groups - because it obviates what is the club of states that the European Union entails and the obligations that, as a state, are imposed on us to belong to that club. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligations lie with the States, not with the parliamentary groups, and this is not a baladian issue. We are talking about State issues and, therefore, they are above the political groups that support a particular government at a certain point in time, and that is also not the case. What is wanted is for the State to be involved in the homogenisation of Community law. That is why you are making a fraud of law, because you are disobeying the very law of the Government, in whose articles 26 and 27 - by the way, reformed by you in 2015 in order to enhance the legislative process - you are oblivious to the recommendations and requirements laid down in that article 26, and even in article 27, which establishes grounds of urgency; no, you are jumping them into the chest and putting the parliamentary group to promote this transposition. However, article 21 of the Law of the Council of State, which establishes as one of its core areas of competence, also fails to report on these transpositions. However, article 561 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, whose council has an obligation to inform when it concerns matters of the judiciary, is also omitted; even article 14 of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, which also establishes that it is the competence of the prosecutor's council to inform these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, they have no laws left but to violate; few more. I insist, this is an insult to the institutions and, in this case, to this House, because this House is going to have to carry out this transposition and it is going to make it orphaned by reports that could feed, because they are not purely technical transpositions of a mere translation; no. The directives themselves, for example 2014 - which is much talked about - on criminal sanctions applicable to market abuse, which is based on three specific articles of privileged information, sets out three areas of competition, but says that States will have to look at gravity and intentionality; therefore, it is gradual and therefore it is nuanceable. It will be necessary to see how it works, how our articulated already is established, which establishes sanctions for privileged information, use, manipulation and operations that can be done with it, and to establish something as important as the sanctioning of imperfect executions or punishable preparatory acts. And what am I going to tell you about terrorism! Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed to comply with something as basic as the state pact. The state pact, which served and gave so much revenue and so much play in the fight against ETA, and which now in the jihadist sphere determined the Organic Law 2/2015, has been obviated again. We are talking about nuclear changes, not just in that line of raising penalties in every legislative reform, no; we are talking about raising penalties to leaders, which can be easily discussed and would not be a problem, but we are talking, for example, about integrating the very definition of the crime of terrorism. There is an alteration of 573, incorporating a new crime, such as documentary falsifications, which come to nuclear, when made for terrorist purposes, the nuclear concept itself. The criminal rates are extended, for example, to travel, without the need for the destination of such travel to be a territory dominated by a terrorist organization. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very delicate. Do not insult institutions, and they are doing so in a systematic way. The minister does not like a sentence and beats the judge, cloudes his honorability or, at least, tingles with doubt his performance. You do it with these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good way to go. And now is when everyone would be waiting for me to say: Do not wait for the Socialist Group's vote in favour. They are wrong; they will say yes, but they will say so with their teeth pressed and for a very simple reason, because the Socialist Party is a party of State, of European State and which also believes in the prestige of the institutions and believes in the prestige of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u43	We move on to the next item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the implementation of a system of selection and training of teachers, temporary resident teachers, DIR, based on the MIR of medical practitioners. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u44	President, ladies and gentlemen, education is the most powerful weapon to change the world; it is the best antidote to eliminate class difference, the best vaccine to combat inequality, the best vitamin for prosperity and the best guarantee for citizens' freedom and autonomy. I dare say that if there are important social policies these are educational policies, because education is the future. The citizen has it very clearly; we have always had it very clearly and we have been betting on these policies from the beginning. It was we who called for a subcommittee to be set up to make a reform that would improve our system. Unlike other groups, which have actually shown that they only wanted to use this issue politically, we believe that. In the face of the government's inaction - which actually passes from education with much grace but with absolute indolence - we do not give up nor will we ever give up on getting better education. If we want to have a high-quality education system, let's not be fooled, we have to play many pieces. It is true, gentlemen of the PSOE, that we must have sufficient resources, but not only. In the Education Pact, we identified 15 key issues that needed urgent reform. They are all very important, but the truth is that if there is a consensus on the part of all experts and also at the international level on what is the factor that has the most direct impact on the performance of students, that is the quality of the faculty. It is a widely shared fact that the quality of an educational system can never be higher than the quality of its teachers, and this is in the drawer. Teachers and teachers, after the students, are the soul of the educational system. Spain has had and has a commendable teacher who, in these forty years, since the Transition, thanks to his dedication, has allowed us to overcome envites suffered for different reasons, but the teachers and teachers have been in these forty years of bipartisanism the great forgotten. They have not always received the attention, care and centrality they deserved and are often what they are for their worth and for their will, not because they have been helped. As a result of the treatment that has been given to them, the truth is that today many headlines and many interims feel that they are not sufficiently prestigious, that they work and have worked too isolatedly, that the work vicissitudes and vavenes that they are going through are demotivating them and that they do not, despite their efforts, achieve the results that they would like. More than 200,000 of these prestigious and fantastic teachers are going to leave the education system as a result of retirement in this decade. This faculty, which is a fundamental pillar, is going to have to be replaced, and this replacement, which is a challenge, is also an incredible opportunity. We need to address issues that do not work well. The initial training of teachers is one of them, and I do not say it, as the teachers themselves say; it is only necessary to look at the data. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a country with one of the lowest percentages of children under the age of 30 who is engaged or who wants to engage in this profession. It is very difficult to attract young people and very difficult to get the best young people to devote themselves to teaching. They are the teachers themselves who are most aware that, apart from other issues, the training of teachers urgently needs a change. The reports indicate that Spanish teachers participate in fewer induction programs, receive little feedback on their work, almost none have an assigned mentor and attend much less training activities than the rest of their colleagues. A study was carried out a few years ago, The Voice of Teachers, which said that 70% of current teachers wanted the selection system to be reformed to gain access to the teaching profession. 80% of teachers agreed that accreditation to the teaching profession should have the same criteria in the public system as in the private or concerted system, and most called for an urgent reform of the induction period or period of practice. In Citizens we have echoed these demands. In fact, we have already made a proposal to have a better education and to implement the educational deal, as well as for the reform of the faculty, a proposal that we bring to the pact signed with the People's Party and that, unfortunately, has not reached a good place. In this regard, and given the irresponsibility of some political forces and the lack of action on the part of the People's Party, we have been forced to bring this proposal to plenary. There is an urgent need to take the road to comprehensive reform of teacher training, because this will lead to improvements in the training of our children. We want a system that replaces the teacher's master's degree and proves to have an impact beyond the pockets of students enrolled in these master's degrees, because at the end the teacher's master's degree is becoming a mere process or, worse, in some cases a business. The training of teachers must be a fundamental stage, allowing future teachers who are going to have our children in their hands not only to acquire knowledge but also to gradually assume responsibility in the classrooms. The MIR we propose raises a period of theoretical-practical learning that will help future teachers not only to know, but also to know what they do well, what they do regularly and what they can do better. I want to make one thing clear, meridian for the PP, for the PSOE and for Podemos. The proposal we are putting forward here concerns only those who will come, and not those who are. It is a proposal on training, only on training; it is not a matter of career or human resources and after this intervention it has to be clear what we are presenting. Nothing has to do with career, nothing has to do with access to the teaching public service. With the MIR teacher what we want is for the best to become the best teachers in the future, with better training, with more accompaniment and with more practice. But we also want a system in which veterans, those teachers who are expert tutors, are able to transfer their expertise to the people who arrive. We propose a model similar to the MIR in which, once graduates and in order to gain access to practical training, aspirants submit to a national examination and from the note can choose the center and specialty in which they want to be trained, and that during these courses these practices are remunerated. Citizens present a system of help to teachers to start classes, but also a system that recognizes the great teachers and asks them to share their knowledge. The proposal we are bringing is a constructive proposal for the future aimed at improving education in this country. Frankly, we cannot understand that it is not supported by groups that say they are concerned about the future and children of this country. I'm going to make you a confession: I'm very optimistic and I'm going to tell you why. Because Fernando Sabater says - and this goes for those who do not - that with pessimism one can write against education, but optimism is necessary to exercise it; pessimists can be good tamers, good polemists but never good teachers. And I say neither good politicians. Education is an act of courage; cowards, suspicious, and ashes abstain. So see what they're gonna do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Group in Congress, Mr Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead with our affirmative vote on the non-legislative proposal presented today by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. It will be affirmative because we are not forgetting that we are talking about a proposal that arises from the People's Party, since in 2009 a Member of this House, Eugenio Nasarre, and the former President of the State School Council, Francisco López Rupérez, were already talking about this measure, its development and its implementation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, welcome to our speech, our proposals and our approaches. And, as far as decorations are concerned, we are not going to deny you one more; add it to your list which is what interests you, but the important thing is to talk about education and have clear ideas in this regard. There is a proposal that is very important for us, so important for education in Spain that we cannot stay on the surface, we must be more ambitious and pose what teachers really want and want: a law of general management of the teaching profession that contemplates a new model of the system of access to the profession and a basic design of the professional career that includes evaluation, training, promotion and professional development. Therefore, we intend - and in fact we will present it - a law that establishes a professional career system in which different degrees are acquired, or different levels within the same degree, depending on the involvement, preparation, dedication and corresponding evaluation of each teacher, providing the system with incentives for the constant improvement of quality. In short, it is a question of considering different career development paths adapted to the preferences of the faculty and to the results of their evaluations, which will be conveniently programmed and will be fair and objective. For our group, policies focused on teaching are essential tools for improving the education system. Over the past few years, authoritative opinions have been added to defend the desirability of improving education and, in particular, that of selecting and training systems for access to the teaching profession inspired by the MIR of our health system. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to see a change of model in the selection process, we want a genuine career that will give us dignity and prestige. For this reason, the countries that have been most successful in the past year have begun in their day a long road of educational reform that has as reference quality in the faculty. These countries choose their future teachers from among the best students who leave the baccalaureate, pay them as much as high-level professionals are paid, educate them with the best university professors, guarantee them a post after training and provide them with follow-up during the first years of the profession. This is what they started doing in Finland back in the 1980s and turned the teacher into the cornerstone of their education system. In short, while other countries made laws like that, we bet on the Logse, whose educational doctrine questioned the teacher's authority, prestige and opinion. All this in favor of a constellation of understandings who promised us the Educational Arcadia and whose connection between them was that they never stepped on a classroom. The current model of teacher selection calls for a radical change, it is true. The traditional system of oppositions does not allow to select the best prepared, it does not contain any factor that stimulates the best young university students to practice teaching and that rewards their effort and dedication. In addition, postgraduate studies are also revealing all their shortcomings and contradictions. Being aware of the need to change the model, this cannot be the result of the haste and much less of the political opportunism of which some political groups such as Citizens have already accustomed us. This new model must be the result of agreement and reflection, also of the opinion and participation of teachers, which has for too long been separated from decisions and measures that directly affect them. The Government has been working on this task for a long time, let us recall the White Paper on the teaching profession entrusted to Professor José Antonio Marina; let us recall the meetings, many of which were with the National Conference of Deans and Directors of Education, with the National Association of Students of Education; the contributions of the State School Council; the opinions of the eighty-three experts who have gone through the subcommission of the Education Pact and the views of the OECD or the European Union, which have been positioned on numerous occasions on how to select the teacher to do so in the best way possible. Indeed, this model has its goodness and must be used. For this we have to rely on the teachers. I believe that not only does the teacher play a central role in improving the results in education, but we are also the epicenter of the effort to achieve them. The teacher must be the protagonist of this task because we cannot leave it isolated. Ladies and gentlemen, society is asking us for effective initial training for teachers, for proper selection and, above all, for support for the beginning of the professional life of teachers. This task ahead requires addressing tasks without shortcuts and with responsibility and this is what teachers expect of us and that is what the People's Party intends to offer them in a forthcoming non-law proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez. Mr Alli Martínez, who is not here, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Martín, I am a teacher, I am not an ashtray, I am very optimistic, and I will also vote no to this proposal. [[Applauds]] And I do it without my finger rings falling off. This proposal, from what we have heard from the first two spokespersons who have come up here to this rostrum, seems to want to have many parents: the PP, the FAES, Citizens, in short, there are many who want to attribute this proposal. Some of us would have to ask why they did not make it possible when they had absolute majority; but, in short, they are other times. Citizens' explanatory statements refer to European reports, the Eurydice report and an OECD report on education. On the other hand, curiously, he makes no reference to any report on public expenditure on education. We are in the 23rd place in the European Union - I now explain it to you - the fifth by the tail. [[rumors]] This year Citizens are going to approve a budget that lowers spending on education from 4% to 3.8% of GDP; and Mrs Martín tells me, what does this have to do with it? I'll explain. The proposal has a clear contradiction: you are going to approve general state budgets that lower spending on education and, instead, make a proposal that will increase spending. And besides, this morning, in the interview they were doing to Mr. Garicano, he didn't even have it quantified! I mean, they go down in education and they want to go up they don't know how. I agree with you that training and selection systems are probably anachronistic and ineffective; but the teaching MIR is not the solution to the problems of education. The real problems of education - as the Green Sea is going to demand this afternoon - are obviously the lack of resources, the ratio, the attention to diversity and of course the continuing training of teachers that some have been responsible for dismantling. We shall vote against your proposal for three reasons. First, because it gives us a tuff to want to have low-cost teachers; because it also gives an unbearable tuff to recentralization; and then, the most logical, because it forgets the educational community. I believe that in order to talk about education issues we would not have to ask Citizens, but obviously the educational community. Finally, two questions I raise. One, what would happen to the acting teacher? And two, will access to a job in public school continue to be by opposition? And in the concerted school, how will it continue to be? By the director's finger? Anyway, we also have to talk about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u50	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Martín and Mr Pérez, listen to Citizens and the PP defending the teachers this week, in which the president of your party is dedicated to disseminating images of nine teachers who have been victims of death threats without being guilty of anything, the same week that the government of the People's Party has asked to investigate twenty-four institutes and educational institutions, among which is my high school, and that you come here to defend the teachers, you must have a lot of face. I, Mrs. Martin, ask you two questions. Do you know how many initiatives in the field of education your parliamentary group has brought to this House over the past year? Three. And of the three, do you know how many have not talked about indoctrination, how to improve the ideological course of teachers, or how we will train teachers to be more like your party? None, the three of them have gone in this same direction. And I wonder, Mrs Martín, is this the main problem of the Spanish education system? Do you think this is the main problem of the Spanish education system? Will the main problem of the Spanish education system not be that you have been unable to agree to generate a consensus around an educational project that is able to lead public educational policies that defend a conventional education system like the one that this country needs? Is that not the problem that the Spanish education system lacks? Far from acting with the consensus they should seek, they are dedicated to rooting out those we have been able to generate consensus in other territories, in other parliaments and in other chambers. That is why we warn you to stop going where you don't go, to focus on looking for content within the framework of the State Pact for Education, which is where you should be working and not presenting initiatives outside that State Pact because you are left alone. They have been left alone in the State Pact because they have been unable to seek the necessary consensus. I am concerned and truly concerned about the persecution and obsession they have from the Government and the party that supports the Government, but it is particularly frightening that of their party. Reading this initiative and reading the initiatives you have presented over the course of this year, I was led by the image of the president of your party, Mr Rivera, in front of a group of law students, where I recommended that you read Immanuel Kant. And when Mr. Rivera was asked what Kant's book recommended, Mr. Rivera acknowledged that he had not read anything about Kant in his life. I wonder what your party would be like if Mr Rivera could talk about what Illustration is, if he could talk about what hearing is, if he could talk about freedom of expression and, above all, if he could talk about ethics in politics. But for that to happen, Mrs Martín, the president of your party should not only recommend Kant, but should one day start reading it to her. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, you have the floor, Mr Agirretxea Urresti. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I know that you dream of a single country in which there were neither nationalities nor different languages nor cultural pretensions, where everything was unique, unitary, national, state. You have that image of envy of that French centralist republicanism that you like so much - and obviously with your new Spanish Macron candidate for the presidency - and you have that but at the same time you are unable to question the monarchy in Spain. [[laughs]] Therefore, it seems to me that there is much tale in his words. [[Applauds]] And, of course, education for you is important because you are envious of that famous French school, where everyone studied the same thing in the same places. Well, look, here, fortunately, we have another kind of school too. Mrs. Martin, education is the future, you said, but in the hands of whom do you want to leave that education? And when I say in the hands of who I'm not referring to the teachers. I am talking about what politicians and what political superiority they want education to depend on. The proposal that you have put forward absolutely ignores the legal, political and administrative framework of the Spanish State, which is not that I like it very much, but that you must hate it, because you have totally ignored it. First, the proposal attacks the competences of universities by scorning the pure and hard university autonomy, disassociating from universities - and more specifically from the faculty of teacher training - such autonomy. Second attack, the proposal attacks the autonomic political competences, disregarding the autonomic competition by being linked these and the education departments that manage the policies of the proposal. Thirdly, the proposal intentionally ignores the sociolinguistic reality of each community and despises the official languages with uniformity, and specifically the Basque, Catalan and Galician languages are despised. [[The lady]] It seems that you want to go back to that national school with those teachers who ignored the language of those places where they went and made everyone speak as a Christian. And, fourthly, the proposal ignores the competences of educational institutions, excluded from the proposal, since it disconnects and ignores the autonomy of the centres to manage their own educational projects. Therefore, you make the basic table of university autonomy, of the autonomy of the centers, of political autonomy, of languages, of all that. The truth is that you pose a single examination, obviously national and also with the guardianship of the ministry, it is not going to be that the education departments of some autonomous communities decide for themselves how they want to be the teaching and teaching department of each of their autonomous communities. You want that, that everyone has the same exam and destiny, the one that touches, because Spain goes from Lugo to Almería and from Irún to Cádiz, and everything is one and only, and all the same education, the same educational model, the same educational project. Let them know that, of course, as it could not be otherwise, my group is going to vote against this proposal. But you also ignore the document of the National Conference of Deans and Directors of Education on training and access to the teaching profession, which is not that I like it at all, but that there are some issues that have even missed them. They say, for example, that it is necessary to adopt a continuous vision of the teaching profession, or that the different stages of the professional teaching career must be articulated between them and be coherent, or that a continuous collaboration between the educational administrations and the faculty of education is essential, or that the necessary collaboration is possible only through the effective commitment of all the actors involved: central government, autonomous government, parties, etc. Having said that, obviously this issue should not have a long way to go, because, moreover, if we were to pretend that a kind of MIR similar to that of medicine could be applied to teaching, those of us who are competent in educational matters will already know how to legislate and do so in each of the autonomous communities where we are competent, where the characteristics are taken into account, among others the languages themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that access to teaching, initial training and continuing training are very important areas in every professional career of a teacher. It is true, but I still believe that it is more true that above all there is a need, an obligation, which is an ethical commitment on the part of governments, on the part of political leaders, on the part of those who have the capacity to determine and regulate everything that belongs to the educational community, and I mean respect. If there is no respect, everything else is baladí; if there is no respect, everything else is unserviceable, understanding that all positions are legitimate, but, if there is no respect, there is nothing worth it. Then the first thing to do is to recognize the professionalism of teachers, and above all to recognize their ethical commitment to the public education service, especially in times of cuts; cuts that come from afar and that have expression also in the General State Budgets that are to be approved by you, also assuming that in the results account - that is, it is evident that there is an improvement in diagnostic tests and the system, moreover the graduation rates, that have increased - would not be understood without this professional and ethical commitment of teachers. And you act backwards, and to show a button. Look, you know what this is? [[Show a picture]] They are painted that have appeared at a middle school in Sant Andreu de la Barca, painted that speak of teachers rats, Nazis, who have been jailed and urged by Mr Rivera. I repeat, they have been jailed by Mr Rivera, and if not, consult your Twitter account; jailed by Mr Rivera. The names of the teachers appear attributing all kinds of insults to them. You know why? Because it turns out - see to what extent citizens' contempt for teachers comes - that they are accused of indoctrinating students. Do you know that the assembly of teachers of this center - I suppose that at the assembly of teachers, one hundred teachers, will have them of all ideologies -, the students to whom they are invoked, who were protagonists of what happened, deny it? The school council made up of parents, teachers and students, the school council of Catalonia, the syndic of Greuges, the unions - trade unions of all ideological colors - have all denounced the falsehood of what is intended from the prosecutor's office: universalize - see where we have come from - teaching as a synonym of hate crime. Look at what madness we're set up in. There is a perverse dialectic, citizens and the People's Party are being fed back. They are politically hysterical because they have not achieved what they intend since they were born: to carry the Catalan educational model, and as they had a great opportunity, which was 155, they are hysterical with the People's Party because they accuse them of cowards, traitors, because they have not taken advantage of the minister's role as the adviser so that they can enter the box they intend to place in the enrollment to boost the Catalan educational system and model. And it turns out that both of them are being fed back to the point that four families - four - went directly to the prosecution, did not go through the protocols that the system that they say they respect so much to be able to resolve what was questioned. Do you know that the Spanish Government which now has the responsibility of the Council is hiding, does not want to release, a report drawn up by the inspection? You know why they don't want to release him? Because he totally denies what they use to build up this lack of respect for teachers. Please publish the report. You're running the council, why don't you publish it? Because they're disassembled by the chiringuite. They're not ashamed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u55	Thank you very much, honourable Member. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Since they entered the Parliament of Catalonia, from that ten years ago, we have only known an educational policy to the lords of Citizens: to point out, to cut and to control. They point to those who don't think like you through social media. For example, Mr Rivera has recently done so with an immoral and indecent tweet, in which he hung the photograph of nine teachers of Sant Andreu de la Barca, inviting public and media lynching, and they have also done so with the website of the People's Party in the Valencia Country, where anonymous complaints are promoted. They try to control through their penultimate occurrence, the High Educational Inspectorate, cut in education into budgets agreed with the People's Party and come here today to point out again to the teaching body as guilty of the bad situation of education in Spain. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, you are politically very hypocritical. One of his references, Arturo Pérez Reverte - by the way, is not holy to my devotion -, published a tweet in 2013 with something as common sense as this: We should triple the salary to the teachers, make them a well-paid, rigorous, elite profession; they are our only salvation. Among the many answers he got, there was one that said: Before triple the salary to the teachers, you have to triple the agendas and the access tests they have to overcome. Do you know who said that? Mr Ignacio Aguado, spokesperson for Citizens in the Madrid Assembly, the one who later erases tweets, the one who has shown that two moisturizing creams are more regenerating than all Citizens' politics. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Today you go one step further and you not only point to the faculty through social networks, but move on to action with this GNP, which is inconsistent, as Mr Garicano has shown this morning in the SER Chain. They set up an obstacle race to further precarise the early years of teaching and to fire the interim teacher, who is already crushed by the system. They plan to introduce a new precarious working figure into the civil service and, in addition, they do so without even appealing to dialogue with trade unions. We're not gonna let him. And it's that you're starting from a premise that's not true. Not always, Mrs. Martín, those who have the best grades are then the best teachers. That's not a mathematical rule. Empathy, motivation to the student and the transmission of values are not being approved an exam with the best grade, but I share one thing with you. I share that the education system in Spain is improveable - I would say more, it is very improveable - but precisely our teachers are the best we have. We have one of the worst paid teachers in Europe, with a 25 % loss of purchasing power, with considerable job insecurity, with professionals with averages and even thirds of a day, with a 26 % in-between rate, with 23 % of work stress and with ratios that complicate day-to-day. [[applause]] And really, gentlemen of Citizens, do you want to focus on the fact that we mischosen the faculty? Is it true that, when they have supported 95% cuts in the budgets in the continuing training of teachers, they now say that training is the main problem? Don't they really get tired of criminalizing the teaching community? [[Applauds]] Mrs Martín, come with me this afternoon to the mobilizations of the Green Sea in Madrid, and then you will be credible, because, despite the ideological cuts that have crushed the public, despite the continuous signal they make, despite the criminalization of the Public Service that your party promotes, despite all that, we have the best professionals in Europe. Lucky we have our teachers and teachers. We would have to be eternally grateful to them because thanks to them we have maintained the educational system. The professorship is our ally. They are the ones who know the education system best and best. If they wanted to do something for the public school they might not have supported the budgets of the People's Party, which, while leading public education to one of its historical minimums, have continued to increase the elitist educational concerts. I'm done. The public school, lords of Citizens, is not their field of proof, but is the heritage of all and all. Look for another scapegoat if you want, but leave the education professionals alone, because we are playing with the present and future of our country, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is incompatible with your pointing, controlling and punishing. This educational policy that you profess is very dangerous, because it has many dyes to return to us while teaching us the precious film The Language of Butterflies: Persecution of Teachers and Medieval Practices as the leader of the fourth party of Spain dedicates himself to hanging pictures of teachers on social networks. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u57	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Martín, they were already taking a long time to bring this initiative to us in plenary. The truth is that after announcing it as a drum and platter during the negotiation of the educational pact - the one you are constantly asking for loyalty, which, by the way, does not apply - we were surprised that you hadn't brought it yet. It is an initiative that responds to your dispute or duel with the Minister of Education about the authorship of the educational MIR. By the way, you will have to remember that the first one who spoke of the educational MIR - that is, with a proposal radically different from that you bring here - was the Socialist Party as early as 2011. [[Applauds]] On their initiative, they justify this non-law proposal as a reform required by the educational population. But, Your Honor, if you haven't spoken to any teachers' unions! There is not a single union that supports this non-law proposal, when it is something that fundamentally affects the teaching function and the teaching staff. They talk about the aging of the templates, but you should know that the blame for all this lies with the People's Party's policies, with that replacement rate that has achieved the aging of the templates, precariousness and job instability. Therefore, this has a responsibility and a name and surname: educational policy of the People's Party. The training of teachers is very serious and you approach it without a calm debate and contrasting with the main ones affected, that we are teachers. The worst is that they start the house on the roof, because when we talk about the teaching function we have to take into account three fundamental issues that I will summarise: initial training, continuing training and teaching career. And you guys from that, nothing. We do not like this initiative because more or less they come to say that our teacher is fatal and that you with the magic wand of the DIR are going to solve all the problems of the educational system. How far from reality! What a poor analysis! They have taken pleasure in that catastrophic discourse of how bad it is for education in Spain and I believe that Spanish education earns more by prestige and support than by discrediting it, which is what you have been doing lately. The figure of the teacher is what has to be valued, Mrs Martín. You speak of the soul of education; we believe that the soul of education, which is teaching, needs much more than this non-law proposition. We are dealing with children, with the future of Spain, and you are talking about the model of the health MIR, which focuses on patients and patients; I say that there will be some difference between patients and patients and children and, therefore, the system must be radically different. In order to have better teachers, a reform of the initial training of teachers, of the degree and of the master's degree is needed in the first place, and to select the best future teachers, because the initial motivation is fundamental, as it is also necessary to have a better structure of the practice. Secondly, a thorough review of the teaching profile must be carried out, with new competences of the faculty in order to be able to deal with families, with problems of coexistence, with orientation, with the introduction of digitalization in the classrooms, with the processes of evaluation, with the approximation of knowledge and research to the educational processes, with strategies of socialization, etc., something that you do not see either. All this requires good tutors, active teachers of the same educational system who are in the centers but within the initial training. There is also a need for ongoing training, which you do not know; updating to improve, with methods that directly impact on the student. And to have more motivated teachers you have to develop the promotion in the teaching career and its social recognition. This is what you need, Mrs. Martin. His GNP solves nothing, because in its own way we only find problems and we have many doubts. First of all, yours is an obsession with centralizing everything. But have they not yet realized that education skills are in the autonomous communities? Well, apparently not yet. Secondly, they do not mention what to do with all graduates in Education or those who finish high school who cannot pass this national test that you pose. What would they do? They have a background, a degree, but then they wouldn't have the chance to practice teaching. Thirdly, the working conditions - which have already been mentioned above - without specifying anything. Have you calculated the cost? Well, look, we're going to tell you: about EUR 1 billion a year. Of course, with your support for the State's general budgets, which leave us, as I said before, at 3.8%, and the support for that underfunding that you put forward in the educational pact, what you do is to sell smoke once again, as we are used to. Tutors and centers are required, of which they do not speak, because neither do we know how it could be considered. Have they made a real prediction as to whether the education system has the conditions to be able to do so properly? Nothing. And what would be the model of access to the Public Service? Neither. It's just that maybe we're already going to load up access to the Public Service. And where are the interns? Who would cover the casualties? They don't say anything either. And to end his occurrence, they want to folder him in nothing more and nothing less than six months. Finally, Mrs Martín, I believe that Citizens should reflect much more on their educational project, because what we see so far are simply slogans but without any kind of development, that is, that it scratches and there is nothing in the background and also without educational consensus. Education is certainly something much more serious, much deeper, and we do not think that we should try to compete with the People's Party to see who has the best occurrence, further damaging the image of the professionalism of the teacher. Sadly, what they are showing us every day is that the only thing they want is to look for a headline and use education much more than defending it. With all these questions, I think it can be made clear to you that our vote is going to be no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u60	Yeah. We're working on a transaction the PP and Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u61	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Strengthening the Dual Vocational Training of the Spanish Educational System. [[File number 162/000562]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u62	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning strengthening the dual vocational training of the Spanish educational system. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the previous initiative, I do not resist to stress that it is graceful that those who brought the scrapes to Spain will then be the ones who accuse us of pointing someone out; it does not cease to be graceful. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, my group brings to the House this afternoon an issue which I believe is of interest to the whole of Spanish society and on which all the parliamentary groups in the House have shown interest in putting forward numerous amendments. There are six amendments that have been tabled and we are going to work on a compromise amendment so that they can be reflected in the final text. On this issue, I would like to say, first of all, that we have no problem with the fact that there is - because it is being done - a specific law on this issue. I think it is a mistake to make too much of this issue, and that is why I think that some group which points out in its amendment a specific amount for vocational training should reflect on whether or not it is worth fixing. Secondly, there will be absolute respect for the competences of each and every one of the administrations involved. With regard to the amendments that have been put forward by other groups, I believe that in dual vocational training there is a need to distinguish between dual regulation and work, and within work, between the two objectives of integration and credible training. If that distinction is made, it will be easier to reach agreement in the transaction and that all groups can sign the same text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an issue on which we have all once heard a reflection on the mismatch between what we teach children in school, what we teach children in high school or university and the difficulties they have in making such training reflect on professions that are required in the labour market. It is a misadjustment that provokes obvious frustration by giving for a short while useful years of effort and which, in addition, becomes one of the causes of youth unemployment. Dual vocational training may be the most ambitious action to overcome this mismatch. The combination of learning in enterprises and in training centres adapts the programmes of these training centres to the labour market, making it much easier for our young people to be employable. Looks like we're going in the right direction. Since its implementation in the 2012-2013 course, the number of students enrolled in dual vocational training has increased sixfold: 24,000 students in the 2016-2017 course, 161 degrees, 854 centres involved and more than 10,000 companies. The aim is for this legislature to end with 100 000 students in dual vocational training and, in addition, for the employment side of the training and learning contract to continue to work as it is doing and with the effectiveness with which it is doing so both in the field of integration and in obtaining credible training. If we look at the data on youth employment, we will be able to see how almost 50% of the unemployed under the age of 25 in 2013, a point of maximum unemployment in our country, have been able to find jobs. Our labour market data are certainly encouraging. This could lead us to be seduced by triumphalism, but we would be making a serious mistake. On the contrary, we need to reflect on two issues, precisely in order to continue to insist on improving everything related to dual vocational training. The first question relates to the structure of our production, the new productive structure that our country has. The components of our aggregate demand present a participation of the external sector of more than 10 points since the previous stage of the crisis, 10 points of rise that correspond to the 10 points of decrease in the construction sector. There is a new productive structure in our country in which the foreign sector is positive - this did not happen in Spain even in the times when we could manage our exchange rates - and, moreover, with untapped. This new model of growth has a key, the competitiveness of our economy, which requires and requires continuous training of our workers and adaptation to the changing demands of the labour market. A second reason is the changes that are taking place in the labour market as a result of the digitisation of the economy. The connectivity and speed with which technological changes are taking place makes training more than ever the differential element that allows us to have an advantage in gaining access to employment. It is a question of paying attention to the digital divide affecting the employed, as the State Plan for the training of workers in digital skills does, but it is also necessary for the population currently studying to be trained in the skills most demanded by companies, which is what dual vocational training does. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should continue to insist on the direction in which the non-legislative proposal put forward by my group for debate in this House points out. I believe that we are faced with one of the fundamental issues, one of the fundamental changes in our education system and also in our labour market. Everyone must understand that it is necessary not to make too much sense, in order for the social partners here too to be involved in the generation of dual vocational training that is increasingly modern and adapted to the changes in the labour market caused by the changes in our productive structure and also by the change that the digital economy has introduced in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u64	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Group's initiative on strengthening dual vocational training in the Spanish education system will count on the Forum's favourable vote, which sought to enrich it with an additional amendment, firstly because it considers it necessary to promote a training pact between the social partners and the Government in order to ensure the stability and permanence of training programmes and offers over time, in order to combine specialization in the fields of higher demand and projection with the learning of basic cross-cutting competences, and secondly because it is essential to clarify the regulatory framework on dual vocational training in order to simplify the broad existing rules, both state and autonomous, and to facilitate a solid, stable and quality model that will contribute to the integration of young people into employment. We share the reasoning set out in the explanatory statement and we think that the proposals that are being put forward and that the honourable Member has defended, Mr Floriano, but we should add the nuances of stability and permanence over time, because we believe that continuity is essential in order to have durable solutions to tackle the serious problem of youth unemployment in Spain, which is very acute in Asturias, where we have increased from 10.83%, in 2016, to 12.16%, in 2017. The involvement of large companies and taking more responsibility for programmes and specialties is essential. This model cannot be majority without agreement with large companies, because without them it doesn't work anywhere. It is not like the basic FP; the company must be more involved in programs and offers because it is not about getting a degree, it is about employment. With regard to regulatory simplification, it is appropriate to highlight the work already developed by the Alliance for Dual VET, which, based on experience and with a thorough analysis of existing legislation and regulation in Spain and in the autonomous communities, including comparing it with that of other European countries, has established a set of proposals on fifteen indicators which constitute reforms in the legal framework to ensure the development of better dual vocational training. As I said at the beginning, we will vote in favour of and with more reason if there is a compromise amendment that contains the amendments of other parliamentary groups, including those of the Forum. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u67	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Floriano, if you care so much about FP, you shouldn't have invented Lomce. We would have won something. The dual FP is undoubtedly a useful tool to give a way out and to give an opportunity to young people who want to train and continue building their professional and work future. In fact, in Catalonia we have 10 000 students in the dual FP, representing more than 230 centres and involving more than 3500 companies in that project, so we don't need to be told how important the dual FP is to us. As your text says, we are prepared to get dual vocational training to be offered, because that is the key to making it a valid exit for thousands of young people in this country, but it is clear that seeking the prestige, promotion and dissemination of dual VET is not a unique option, it is a multiple option that requires being accompanied by other decisions, for example, to generate a labour market that facilitates professional exits for those students, for those young people who choose dual VET as a training space. To do so, we must incorporate other things and go far beyond what your proposal proposes, which is why we have tabled two amendments to your text, which I believe are basic, affordable and fair. The first proposes that the powers of governments and administrations with competence in this regard be respected, because their text, which is at the outset - as no one is surprised at - does not provide for this. The second proposes that SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, which must play a key role in the development, creation and dissemination of this dual FP, which you focus only on large enterprises, should also be included. If these two amendments are incorporated into the text, we will vote in favour, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u68	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u69	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the first impression on GNP is real or whether it is really so deliberately confused that it does not give clues about its true intentions. The truth is that, in principle, it is not a proposal for a law that is too good for the importance of matter, because we believe that it reduces the exhibiting part to a confusing and incongruent explanation and the operative part, on the contrary, it is too inconcrete, which is why we have made an amendment which seeks to clarify what I am going to refer to. Dual or alternating vocational training is not only an educational offer of necessary support because it will equip its seekers with the skills that today the educational system offers them in an effective way; it is, above all, because it serves both to bring the training closer to the real needs of the labour market - and therefore to facilitate the employability of those who aspire to train to work - and to enable entrepreneurs to participate in the design of the training processes, assuming the burden of specialized practice and the tutoring of part of the training process, as a counterpart, moreover, to the educational system working with them to equip their production processes with specialized personnel. This leads us to consider that the dual vocational training system participates in a dual legal nature: that relating to the field of education - which, in our case, resides in Article 16 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, and in the State, in part, in 149.1.27 and 130-, and that relating to the field of work, which in the State resides in Article 149.1.7 and, essentially, in Article 11 of the Statute of Workers and in its development in Royal Decree 1529/2012. This regulation lays down the basis for dual vocational training, although - and it is important to stress this - this reference is also linked to Article 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, which recognizes the competence of Euskadi - which is important, because this also happens in other statutes of autonomy - for the improvement and promotion of the professional qualification of its workers and their integral training. This is why the functions and services related to active employment policies were transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country through Decree 1441/2010. However, while this regulatory text establishes the basic aspects of both the training activity associated with a contract and the so-called dual vocational training of the education system, in the field of the Basque Country vocational training is regulated by a decree - 83/2015 - establishing dual vocational training under alternation. That is the question I wanted to highlight in some way, because the data on GNP reflect a very positive evolution from 2012-2013 to 2016-2017: from 4292 pupils to 24,000; from 173 centres to 354 and from 513 companies to 10,000. I congratulate myself on that data, which reflect the correct implementation of a modality that should surely have been advanced in its implementation, as the social partners have been asking - this is certainly linked to the fact that the crisis situation was not guessed - because it would have had a beneficial effect. In Euskadi this activity gives very good figures, which are also a result of a practice that is already very incardinated in the social, productive and educational fabric of the Basque Country. In Euskadi there are 2000 students, more than 100 centers and about 1300 companies involved, and they have all appreciated one specific aspect: the normative effort that has been made to adapt that reality to the real needs of the training process and businesses in Euskadi. That is why it is good for everyone to demand that the collective effort be translated into greater financial support for that policy, but that is also why we are not prepared to tolerate any interference in the development of our own policies that have been and continue to be fruitful in Euskadi. I affirm this because it is not the Government of the State that is responsible for the active exercise of dual or alternating training policies, without prejudice to the fact that it can contribute to its impetus, but with absolute respect for the policies of the autonomous communities, which are competent in this area. The framework of the process he is doing is very successful, pointing out that what he intends to do is to co-responsabilize companies in the training of future professionals, to achieve closer training, to improve transfer processes, etc., but the corresponding policies to seek - as he says - the fundamental job integration, both in vocational training for employment and in the vocational training of the education system, correspond to the educational subject and to active employment policies and, therefore, in some cases, to some autonomous communities and, in the case of Euskadi, to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. That is why we have made an amendment which goes in this direction, in order to clarify and respect both the supporting role that the State may want to play and the leading role in the training activity that the autonomous communities must have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u70	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u71	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we have always considered vocational training to be an essential part of the reform that the education system needs. In particular, dual VET is the best way to integrate education and employment; this is beyond doubt. In this context, I welcome the fact that you are bringing this issue here today to provoke a debate, but I recognise that I am shocked that being a government you are bringing it to plenary in the form of a non-law proposal, which makes it clear that what we are doing here, coming from the government party, is little more than a toast to the sun. This non-law proposal tool is a way that we have those who are opposed to putting a topic on the political agenda, but I am surprised that it is used by the government party for something that they consider to be truly important. They bring us again a series of measures that are generalist, that do not fully get into the problem and, more importantly, that could have led for a long time as a party that is in the Moncloa. You have been shielding yourself for months in the state pact for education so as not to carry out a single measure in educational policy. It gives the impression that they have found in the work of the subcommission a kind of parapet in order to do virtually nothing in this matter. I'm going to tell you one thing, to create dual FP places there's no need for an educational pact that, when it comes, welcome will be. I am also surprised that they are proposing an additional budget allocation for the dual FP one week after the process of amendments to the General State Budgets is closed, in which the largest increase in the FP area is EUR 15 million for studies. I find it a little rare to spend EUR 15 million on studies; forgive me, but I think it would be more operational to devote that amount to providing the 100 000 places needed. For these places, an amount of EUR 350 000 is allocated, which, compared to EUR 15 million, is a little short. We'll be careful to see what these studies are like, what they're worth and, above all, who's doing them. Going to the bottom of the matter, they talk about that improvement in the dual FP. As it is regulated, dual vocational training will always have a burden that will come from its regulatory framework. We need to create an appropriate legal framework for a better development of the FP because the one there is - which, by the way, is the work of a People's Party government - simply does not work. We find ourselves too often with goodwill colliding with legislation. To put it more simply, you want to but you can't. In Spain, the drop-out rate is almost 19%, the rate of youth unemployment is 30% and figures do not improve. I'm going to give you another data that I also think is important. With regard to OECD Spain has the second worst competitive balance between supply and demand for employment. 23% of workers are overqualified, and 26% of workers have a qualification that is below what is required. Among middle and middle-high education people there are 10% of jobs that are not covered by a lack of skilled workers. Yes, in the country that is a youth unemployment champion, we have to import labour for not finding people with the right qualifications. I have recently had contact with important producers of animation and audiovisual effects. I have been told that they have to be hiring people abroad because they do not find here young people trained to access jobs that are well paid and that are high-skilled jobs. The other day I read that in Galicia workers from Poland and Portugal are being claimed to work in the conservatory sector and in the fish freezing sector for qualification posts. Spain is also dependent on professional skills. Do you know what the bottom line is? That in Spain the FP has never worried any government. Now I am going with the gentlemen of Esquerra and the PDECAT who, by the way, have come here today with fierce warrior to defend teachers accused of harassing students. Remember that the people you have defended here today are adults who are accused of pointing out minors. [[Applauds]] I don't know if that's what you came here for today. I've been taught that the public service is something else, you'll know. Anyway, we're going to FP. Three years ago they have paralysed in Catalonia the development of the Law on Vocational Training that they approved in 2015, three years with everything stopped. Do you know why they're stopping him? First, because they didn't have the means. We already know that you prefer to devote resources to promoting the process, to opening embassies here and there, and that education and health are flour from another costal. Then, when there were resources, do you know what stopped the development of the law? That they do not agree in the department of the Generalitat that it has to take charge of the agency of formation and qualification; that is, internal conflicts. Look, you guys stop waving stellates and getting yellow laces and come here for what you're paid for, which is to work, and there to manage. [[Applauds]] It is true that there are people who continue to think that vocational training is a sort of second-division education cycle and it is essential to break down these prejudices. To fight against this stereotype it would be good to start linking FP to university centers, to create gateway systems that allow flexibility of itineraries so that any student who chooses to follow a FP degree knows that he can always join university studies, to bet on creating new places that have nothing to do with traditional studies because science, new technologies, communication, film trades are a way to attract the interest of the younger ones looking for a professional way out. This brings us to another problem and is that in recent years, part of which you gentlemen of the People's Party were ruling with an absolute majority, FP places were created with minimal investment and in studies that are not attractive to young people. It is not just about creating more places, but it must be done in those studies that have a higher degree of employability or attraction for students. It is clear that we will support the non-legislative proposal, we have already tabled a number of amendments to it, but I ask you to be a little more ambitious in things that are of vital importance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u72	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u73	Thank you, President. This afternoon, the People's Party is presenting us with a non-law proposal on dual vocational training which has certainly seemed a little strange to us; and we are going to explain why. This proposal begins by pointing out, as if so, that 35% of young people between the ages of 25 and 34 have failed to complete high school or equivalent vocational training. And from this bleeding data you deduce that we have a problem of employability and that a closer relationship between school and private enterprise is needed. But this data tells us something else, and it seems to us that before we talk about companies and employability we should address the shortcomings and weaknesses of our educational system. For example, the lack of public places in the 0-6 years stage, a stage that has a fundamental weight for the cognitive development of boys and girls; or, for example, the current teacher-student ratios, which are not allowing for personalized attention; or, for example, diversity care programmes. These are structural problems which - although the proposer is now speaking on the telephone - are the cause of school failure in our country. We are therefore not faced with a problem of employability. We are faced with a problem of segregation and of leaving many boys and girls to their fate for not investing at least 5% in education. And this problem does not fall from the sky, this problem you create with your classic policies of multiplying concerts and grants to private school while disassembling public education. [[Applauds]] By the way, all of our support for an educational community that is tired of false educational pacts and covert cuts, this afternoon goes back to the streets to defend the school of all, the school of all. This proposal also proposes - I quote - to increase the 2018 budget line in dual vocational training actions. The curious thing is that in 2017, in the budgets, the vocational training programme had 54 million euros, while this year it has 46 million euros. That's eight million less. Could you explain to us where that increase is? What does it make sense for the party that supports the government to propose this type of GNP to look good if the government then fails to comply with it in the budgets? Anyway. In your GNP you mention Germany a lot as an example of dual FP. I hope, by the way, that they would also have it as a model in terms of the price of tuition and to ensure the freeness of university studies. In any case, the problem with its German FP is that it still does not take into account the reality of the business fabric of our country, of Spain, composed mostly of SMEs and micro SMEs and, of course, many of these companies do not have the facilities or the technical training team to guide and provide good training to students. In this regard, we believe that it is not much use to promise a German FP if there is not a change of productive model and an industrial recovery oriented towards the digital economy and the green economy. There the dual FP could have a role to play in incorporating a new generation of young people into that economic transition. But there is also no dual FP project or specific regulation on this formative modality, so in each autonomous community we find completely different realities. There are communities, for example, where it is the tutors themselves who have to go door-to-door to the companies to accept students because the Administration does not take over; there are other communities where students do not have a contract: they are working without a contract; or where the idea of alternation, which was originally raised and which is how it is done in Germany, that is, that part of the training is in the center and another part is in the company, is not being completed. This situation of the dual FP leads us to think that perhaps what is needed is not so much an impulse, as it collects its GNP, but to rethink it from the top down. In that regard, we have put forward an amendment which points to some of these problems and some possible solutions as well. Very quickly because I do not have much time, first of all, a rigorous and demanding system of participating companies should be put in place to avoid devaluation of training cycles. Secondly, it must be ensured, and this is essential, that there is not a single boy or a single girl in dual vocational training without a contract or without an adequate salary grant. And, thirdly, it is necessary to promote specific training for business tutors and lower ratios, because what cannot be done is that you have studied without any kind of supervision, without any kind of guidance and that you spend a year doing coffee boys and girls. In conclusion, in our confederal group we believe that the integration of work and the quality of employment is not just about the qualification of the population, but rather about the quality of the institutions of the labour market and of the productive fabric. And, of course, that the qualification of the population must be guaranteed with good education and with good training, but also with decent wages and conditions of employment, and that is the part that you always leave out of the equation, but the truth is that there will only be quality vocational training when you look at both sides of the equation: quality training but also salaries and quality employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u74	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u75	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Floriano, allow me to appeal to your good memory. In April 2012, his group presented a non-legislative proposal to the Government urging a diagnostic analysis of FP, a feasibility study of dual FP, and that this modality be promoted. They knew beforehand that it would prosper, advantages of the absolute majority. What answer did Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Wert give you two months later? Reduce FP items from EUR 100 million to EUR 45 million, 55 %. And what happened in December of that same year in the 2013 budgets? More wood than war, continue to reduce the number of vocational training items from 45 million to 32 million. In just one year, in 2012, from 100 to 32 million euros. On this approved GNP, said the spokesman of the People's Party on that occasion: It is an initiative that comes to corroborate the commitment of the Minister of Education. Mr. Floriano, you're in your commitment. Make a commitment!, in a year reduce from 100 to 32. But in addition, the following year you dropped it to EUR 25 million, a 75% reduction. Of course, we do not know anything about that supposed analysis or the feasibility study. We never knew anything, Mr. Wert should have taken them to France. In three budgets, they fell from 100 million to 25 million. Is this what you mean by the government's commitment to vocational training? In the following years, it seemed that the matter was changing; all mere mirage, as the increases were due to the implementation of the Lomce and mass vocational training, which had to be transferred to the communities with money coming from the European Union. In fact, currently in the draft budgets for 2018, if we discount this item of loans from the European Union, they remain for the implementation of the Lomce 71 million euros. See, in 2011, the year of the crisis, 100 million for vocational training; in 2018, the year of recovery, 30% less. As you will understand, the level of credibility you have with regard to FP leaves, much less, much to be desired. And now, strangely enough, you again present a new non-law proposal on dual FP. And what do you ask for? The same is true: to push forward the dual FP, that there be an item - which you now look at where, it is in the state budgets - of EUR 350 000, and that one hundred thousand places be obtained. But that has already been announced by your government!, it has already been announced by the Ministry of Education! Without going further, in April, the Director General of Vocational Training expressed the Government's impulse to the dual FP - what you are asking for - the objective of creating one hundred thousand seats in this legislature - what you are asking for - and an economic departure. And now you ask the government to do what the government has already announced? Hey, you explain this to me. If your government has already committed this and you come to me with this tale, with this milonga, I have to think that what this comes from. Well, look, I'm going to explain it graphically and I'm going to use this folio. If this leaflet were 100% of vocational training, the dual FP would be this piece. [[Start a very small piece of the sheet and show it.]] This is the rest of vocational training. [[Show remaining piece of leaf]] And you, as good trilers, tell us: look for the ball, and ask us to forget 99% of the vocational training you have jibarized. [[shows the small piece]] [[Applauds]] You want us not to look at that 99% because you have jibarized vocational training in this country. Let me tell you, but no. As Celso Emilio Ferreiro said: But no. It's not the time to talk seriously gives battle of frales at the patron fiestas. We cannot overlook the abandonment to which you have been subjected during these years to education in general and in particular to the precariousness to which you have been subjected to vocational training. I told you before: you lack credibility. But if you want, you can get it back and we offer, we'll help you get that credibility back, how? Very easy, accept our amendment. What do we ask? A state plan to boost vocational training, not to the ball, not to 1%, but to all vocational training, EUR 130 million, by the way, the amendment we have tabled to the general state budgets. Also for adapted FP, which is another scourge to which you have not made any case. Our amendment aims to optimise training in workplaces, which corresponds to the dual VET and which corresponds to 99% of pupils who also train in workplaces at present. And yes, we also ask, like you, to promote the dual FP, rigorously, with an analysis of its advantages and risks, which also exist, taking into account our productive model and with a regulation consistent with its complexity. Prove it so they believe in FP. By the way, and all this within the Sectoral Conference on Education and taking into account the rest of the educational administrations, the autonomous communities. Approve our amendment and we will start to believe a little bit in you. That's all; thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor in the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have another non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on strengthening the dual vocational training of the Spanish education system. In other words, the People's Group urges the Government to strengthen dual vocational training as if it were prevented by someone. Well, they reinforce dual formation, it's in their hands. I think that everyone in this House believes in dual vocational training because it is undoubtedly fundamental for the education and training of people throughout life on a permanent basis and with the capacity to adapt to the personal circumstances of each individual and to the demands of society itself. What is sad is that you go with non-legislative proposals and are not a little more ambitious. But let's get to the point. If we talk specifically about dual training, any proposal must be addressed in two areas: one, the exclusive competence of the State, which would be labour law, and in that sense we cannot agree with legislation, which we have never voted on, by the way, and which does not recognise the obligation of a labour contract that articulates the practices of dual vocational training in a complete manner. In its bill they say nothing about this, nothing about how the contractual relationship between company and worker would be articulated, nothing about how these contracts should be improved so that they are not a door to tax fraud, for example, as is too often the case, according to studies by the different unions. Two, from another area, it must be borne in mind that there are nations within the State that, like Catalonia, have competences in education, including dual vocational training. At the outset, therefore, the dual vocational training model is not the responsibility of the Government of the State or of this legislature. We agree with you that vocational training combining education and work from day one does not reach 1% in this realm, while the OECD European average is 17%. We agree with you on the need to improve dual vocational training for the opportunities it gives people in the form of work and for societies in the form of progress for all and for all. But what we don't accept is that they come here to teach us lessons. We do not accept your proposals. By the way, Marta Rivera, from Citizens, who has once criticized us - she is not, she has left, I suppose that in order not to hear what she would have heard now - since you criticize the model of dual Catalan formation, I will give you a few data - they pass them to her -. In the course 2016-2017 in Catalonia there were 7809 students of dual vocational training, in this current course 10,007 students. This represents - Mrs Marta Rivera is told - 32.5% of the total number of pupils from all over the state according to her own data; 32.5%. Not bad, not bad. As for participating training centers in Catalonia, we talk about 237 in this course. This means, Mrs Rivera - they say - 25.41% of the whole state. Not bad, not bad. More than one out of every three institutes in Catalonia, 36.4% have done dual in the course 2015-2016. Not bad, not bad. And that we're so bad. And as far as companies and participating entities are concerned, we are talking about 3589 for the current course, and this represents, according to Mr Floriano's data, nothing more and nothing less than 28.8% of the total state. Always with your own data. Not bad - tell Mrs Rivera - not bad. We know - and we agree - that we need to improve and strengthen dual vocational training, for example, the relationship between business and trade union organisations in this field and also in collective bargaining; that we need to improve the flexibility of the model so that it is better adapted to small and medium-sized enterprises, to make more visible to students the potential of dual personal training and its employment opportunities, and, above all, to establish an own budget for the specific implementation of dual vocational training. In short, we are separated from important aspects such as that we are in favour of employment contracts as a common element for the whole student, also with regard to the position on scholarships and, above all, on social security bonuses and accounts. But where his proposals seem to us insufficient and nothing serious is on the budgetary issue. On the budgetary issue let us look at the realities: the orange and blue budgets - they also explain to Mrs Rivera -; let us look at the reality. Under programme 332.B, with the title of aid for dual vocational training, they allocate an amount of EUR 350 000 to private enterprises, which is very little; EUR 350 000 to dual vocational training undertakings. That is to say, they intend to solve everything that the non-legislative proposal says before with a budget of 350 000 euros, and companies; they will already explain how and in what way. I think it's 15 euros per student. I'm done, President. At the same time, slightly less than half of the EUR 94 million allocated in the year preceding heading 454 for support for the promotion of vocational training transferred to the autonomous communities, which only stood at EUR 46 million in 2018. On the one hand, they cut EUR 50 million in vocational training and, on the other hand, they want to sell us that they support dual vocational training with EUR 350 000 to companies. Gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of Citizens, take seriously and take care of the young people who are looking for decent work in Spain, which leads youth unemployment - imagine if it has been done well so far - in the OECD, because with these proposals, with this budget shortfall by the dual FP, they will unfortunately continue to lead this sad ranking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u78	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Floriano Corrales whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u79	We're going to work on a transactional, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u81	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to recover a quality national health system aimed at improving health and reducing its inequalities. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the defence of the motion. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u82	I'm sorry, President. I was precisely discussing this motion with colleagues from other groups. We present this motion, as a result of the question to the Government, to Minister Monserrat, four weeks ago, to try to find a road map that will allow us to regain the confidence and tranquillity of the Spaniards about health. We want to launch an agreement that allows us to regain the right of access to health care for all, the quality of services, that allows us to face the future of the next five or ten years with confidence and that addresses the main causes of the inequalities in health that still persist among Spanish citizens. The minister did not believe the diagnosis I made about the deterioration of Spanish health in the last six years of the People's Party government. He said the PSOE sees healing in black and white. I will refer here to a number of recent reports from various institutions, national and international. Firstly, the 2017 Ombudsman's report, which talks about the consequences of the crisis and inequality and which cannot be more robust in terms of public services and health. Inequality - he says - is the result of the implementation of policies that have acted as a corrosive, damaging the institutional framework and social cohesion. That's why it's urgent to act to get them back. The crisis - the Ombudsman says - has led to a fall in the provision of public services, reducing public investment to historical minimums. Public health spending between 2009 and 2016 was reduced - the defender says - by 5341 million and that is why it is necessary to correct this deficit of resources that the autonomous communities have. And it says regarding health care and the right of care coverage that the defender has always defended the extension of the right to public health care in the entire population resident in Spain and that Decree-Law 16/2012, returning to the concept of insured, left many people out of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the health-related outcome of the People's Party Government, an exclusion of groups from health care, the application of more economic barriers and less public funding, which has made quality deteriorate and consequently increased family spending if they want to bypass waiting lists or buy medicines. This is the financial situation of Spanish health. In the last year of the government of the Socialist Party public investment in health was 6.5% of gross domestic product. This amount has been falling over the last few years to reach less than 6% of GDP for the first time last year, 2017. The worst is that in the projections that the People's Party Government has sent to Brussels on the occasion of the update of the stability plan, the forecast is to continue to reduce this investment in public health to 5.59% in 2021. [[Show a document]] See how far we are from the average of the countries of the European Union, which spend 7.8% of their GDP on health care. Reducing health financing has a health cost. Of course you do. In the four weeks that have passed since the inquiry to the minister, a report has emerged, for example, from the CRES, the Center for Economics and Health Research, probably the most prestigious research center in Spain, from the Pompeu Fabra University, which talks about the lethal effects of losing health insurance in Spain. He says that, as a result of Royal Decree 16/2012, mortality among the excluded population, among irregular immigrants in Spain, has grown by 15%. That's 70 deaths a year. He also says that the main causes of this increase in mortality are preventable causes of death. The study is only three years away and therefore the long-term effects in the coming years can continue to grow. That's why it's not uncommon that last Friday, The Lancet magazine, probably the most prestigious medical magazine in the world, dedicated an editorial rostrum precisely to Spain, which titled: Austerity in Spain. It's time to loosen the shackle. This editorial by The Lancet is based on several studies: a study by the United Nations Economic and Social Committee published after the inquiry to the minister on 25 April, Amnesty International's report on the health crisis in Spain The wrong recipe, and another report by the European Commission. The United Nations report states that the Committee is concerned about the regressive impact of Royal Decree Law 16/2012 on the enjoyment of the right to health. For this reason, The Lancet's editorial states that the impact of austerity and emergency measures continue to affect the population and should not remain for longer and calls on President Rajoy to fulfil his obligation to respect the right to health, to relax austerity in the Spanish health system and to review the Royal Decree Law 16/2012. Therefore, this black and white vision that Minister Montserrat was telling us about is not only a vision of the Socialist Party, but a vision shared by the Spanish Economic and Social Council, by the Ombudsman, by the United Nations, by Amnesty International or even by the international medical community. The Government cannot remain unfettered in this situation and, therefore, we propose this motion which aims to recover the right to health care as a right of citizenship in Spain; to provide us with sufficient health financing to address the challenges of Spanish health; to recover the conditions of employment and access to therapeutic innovation and to reduce the health inequalities that exist; to provide us with a cohesion fund and an assistance guarantee fund that will remove barriers to health care when a person moves between Spanish Autonomous Communities; to eliminate legal loopholes that allow privatizations such as those that have occurred in the Autonomous Communities of Valencia or Madrid and to strengthen the public management of the National Health System; to remove the pharmaceutical coffers and legal loopholes that exist today thanks to Royal Decree Law 16/2012 to continue to incorporate new coffers; to strengthen primary care; to provide Ceuta and Melilla with the health resources that theydeserve ;and ,lastly , to transfer prison health to the AutonomousCommunities , for which the only barrier to the resources currently required by the General Budget is the lack ofresources. Therefore, I ask all the groups in this House - and in particular the People's Parliamentary Group - generosity to rectify measures that have been very harmful to Spanish health, that we return to the consensus of the General Health Law and the Law on Cohesion and Quality,...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u83	Congressman, I beg you to finish now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u84	Yeah, I'm done. ...that we agree on an autonomous funding system that will benefit all the autonomous communities and that we make Spain a new international reference for its National Health System. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u85	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, then by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u86	Thank you, President. During the interpellation the socialist representative referred several times to the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, pulling the applause from his bench. Despite the fact that both the socialist representative and the minister spoke of the remedies brought against some autonomous laws passed to deal with the royal decree that has fulminated health rights, neither mentioned the remedy that was brought against the Catalan law. But I understand that it is not fashionable here to talk about Catalonia if it is not within the framework of the process, so from here we denounce the suspension of all the laws of the different communities - also that of Catalonia -, as the professional health sector has denounced. In Catalonia alone this suspension leaves more than 100 000 people in the care limbo, but the minister continues to sell the story that everything is going well and that everything is improving; the reality is that nothing is saved and the accounts do not come out. With regard to our amendment, we are presenting it because, as it could not be otherwise, we are in favour of public oversight and ownership, but also of flexibility and public use networks, which is the model that we have in Catalonia, in which entities, cooperatives, etc. collaborate. We therefore invite you to park the private mantra as a demon and start working together with all existing effective initiatives. I'm done because we have very little time. Today the Socialist Group asked us to vote in favour. When have we not supported the improvement of public health as long as competences are respected? We've always done it. Do you know what we need? What we really need is for you to do politics, to throw out the People's Party if you really want this to come true, and you can do it today. We also need them to condemn once and for all the judicialization of politics. Not doing any of this you're not credible. Thank you. Hello and freedom political prisoners. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u87	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u88	Pick it up on. Euskal Herria Bildu has been defending the principles of universality, equity and quality of the public health system by denouncing the cuts that the Spanish Government has made in this area and adopting laws that involve social progress in order to recognize the rights of all people. The Government has acted against the sovereignty of the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa and has recently annulled two Navarra laws, which is in itself serious, but this action has also called into question the right to health of the most vulnerable persons, cutting and trampling a right that is universal to people in an irregular administrative situation. Our legislative action has been aimed precisely at overcoming this situation together with the limitation on the right to receive medical treatment or medicines, which must be guaranteed, in our view, even if there are not sufficient financial resources for this. It is precisely in order to help overcome these limitations established by the respite that we have come to ensure that the Basque Government has to guarantee free access to medicines for all persons who are perceiving the GIR by having it amend its decree, since so far only unemployed persons who did not receive any kind of benefit had that right. Therefore, to the extent that our action in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa has been aimed at recognizing the right to health and access to medicines by regaining their universal character, we can only support the motion tabled by the PSOE. There are many other issues I cannot address because I do not have much time. If I finally tell you in relation to another of the issues referred to in this motion, the subject of the transfer of prison health, which the Basque Autonomous Community has, Nafarroa has not yet; we have asked the Government on more than one occasion and it seems that the talks are not moving forward. Let us hope that it will materialize in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u89	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u90	Thank you, Madam President. We've been talking about restoring universal health for six years and all this time we've really done everything we can to get it back. The Government of Botànic, in which we are Compromised and the PSOE, yes. We implement universal health as one of the first measures, we eliminate the co-op first for retired people, pensioners and dependents, then for under-resourced children and, very recently, for people in unemployment. We have allocated almost 90 million to this precept, to alleviate the copayo, in the 2018 budgets. Faced with this, we have found resources in the Constitution, resources to prevent us from caring for sick people, resources to prevent us from paying for drugs to dependents, retirees, minors, resources of the People's Party against simple people. And not only that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg a little silence, please. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u92	Thank you, President. He said that not only that, but also blackmail for us to accept agreements with Farmaindustria, insufficient financing, a debt of up to 400 million euros by the ministry for health care that we provide in Valencian territory to displaced people. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we will, of course, vote in favour of universal health, but have we really done everything we can? You, the PSOE, could have made a botanic government here, could have made a collaborative government that would really recover the universal health of truth. So motions, yes, of course, but let us also get to work and do actions and a truly changeable government that recovers the universal health of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u93	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Fernández, your beginning of today's speech has been a whole symbol, a whole metaphor. You're late again. It is late because we have already tabled a motion on equity in health benefits in November. We tabled a motion with nine points and they all voted against. They even voted against things they present here today. You are not very interested in this about equity, you are more interested in waving flags than in the equality of the Spaniards. We will not be won in this debate. We will analyse all your proposals, and I assure you that if we vote for points, as we will ask if you do not accept our amendments, we will not vote for everything that is not, because we are not sectarians, we do believe in public services, we do believe in public health and, above all, we believe in the equality of the Spaniards. Let's get to the dots, because we don't have much time. You say that the universal character must be restored, that Decree-Law 16/2012 must be repealed. We agree. We agree that it has to be a right of citizenship, and we have said so and we maintain it, but we do not agree that we continue to deceive the Spaniards by saying that we are going to recover something that never existed, because health was a right for the Spanish citizens and for those who were registered. That said the law, you know it well, and you lie to the population when you say that repealing Decree-Law 16/2012 is giving comprehensive attention to everyone, regardless of their state of registration. We believe that we must take care of them, that we must take care of them in primary care, that we must take care of them in serious diseases and we are ready to reach an agreement with you. You say that in order to guarantee equality, it is necessary to give up judicial remedies against the Autonomous Communities. Curious way to guarantee equality, because if anything guarantees the equality of all Spaniards it is the Constitution and a court that unifies the norms of all. This is just the way to ensure inequality, and we will therefore not agree on this. They also say that there is a need to bet on forms of public administration and repeal Law 15/1997. Law 15/1997 passed by you. Law 15/1997 was adopted with the vote in favour of the Socialist Party of Amador Angels, which intervened on this issue. I'm going to read you an article that will ring your bell. It says: Reality is complex, there is no dichotomously white or black world, good or bad, public or private, and even less public equal to good and private equal to bad. In health management it can be managed through external suppliers. Do you know whose article this is? Do you know what it's called? It's called "Interested Confusion." It is an article by José Manuel Freire, health spokesperson for the PSOE in the Community of Madrid. I very much agree with him. [[Applauds]] You say that a financial sufficiency agreement must be reached with the autonomous communities within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. Of course we agree! We proposed it and you voted against it. But not only did you vote against it, but you voted in favour of the Basque quota; you voted in favour of the greater inequality in autonomous funding that has been voted for in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] It is so; the facts are the facts and cannot be denied. Look, Extremadura spends 9.8% of its GDP on health, spending 100 euros less per capita, and the Basque Country spends 5% of its GDP with much less effort and much better spending. That is inequality and that is what you maintain. You also say that the 2012 co-sponsors must be suppressed. He also made an intervention in the Health Commission the other day in order to recover the medicines that had been disposed of because they were of little use or were for minor symptoms. Now I am not going to quote José Manuel Freire, because this is a document that is yours, yours. [[Show a document]] Here, in the Osasunbidea reform, you said that you had to remove medicines for minor symptoms. You, in this document, talked about how good the co-sponsor was. You, in this document, that I can teach and that you presume in your resume - because your resume is true, it is not like that of others, yours yes, is here and there are the documents -, presume this. We have already proposed to you three times, and we will do so a fourth time, to reduce the copagos to those who have problems of adherence to treatment. And who are the ones with treatment adherence problems in Spain? There is a scientific publication this year, Heart, of a group of Spaniards who analyze the influence of copago on adherence to treatment. They are still the same people; it is the people who have type three cards, who have incomes below 18,000 euros, who have problems with adherence. We have proposed it three times and you have voted no three times. That's what's troubling you. Mr President, you are also talking about the immediate recovery of the Cohesion Fund, a proposal which we naturally made and which you voted against, but we will vote in favour; and we will vote in favour, yes, if you take it to budgets in the form of an amendment and then commit yourselves to voting on the budgets, because, of course, the rest is a thread. [[Applauds]] It also talks about the Assistance Guarantee Fund, with which we also agree and will vote in favour if we vote for points. It also talks about creating an innovation fund with EUR 150 million. Look, these innovation funds, which are funds to ensure that the pharmaceutical industry continues to put its innovations at the price it wants, are proven to be useless. What this country needs is not this; it is a value-price-fixing system for therapeutic novelties that makes the system sustainable. You know, we can't vote for this. To agree with the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u95	Mr. Igea, I'm sorry, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u96	One second, please. On Ceuta and Melilla we naturally agree, on the transfer of prison health we have voted with you several times, and on primary care was also on the motion we made on equity and of course we will vote in favour because it was our proposal. Mr. Fernández, if you want to disguise yourself as We can leave a collection and bring a T-shirt. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u97	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u98	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we share, as it cannot be otherwise, with the Socialist Party that, indeed, the harmful policies of the People's Party broke the principle of universality in access to a model based on insurance; and that has led to the margins of the system to the most vulnerable people, obviously we share it. Specifically, the increase in pharmaceutical payment seems to us to be one of the most dramatic issues, which has meant for many families the impossibility of taking on the cost of medicines and causing interruption of treatments with the danger that this entails. But that the PSOE comes slow, it comes slow, because we welcome it but these proposals come a little late and, in some cases, they come in a surprising way, because they call for the repeal of Law 15/1997, on the licensing of new forms of management of the National Health System, and it is surprising that its approval in Congress and in the autonomous communities counted on its proposal and its support; and not only that, but that you ruled between 2004 and 2011 and did not even pass through their heads to change the law. We understand that this is one more example of the double soul of the PSOE, of that difference between the ruling PSOE and the one in the opposition that looks like two different parties. In any case, welcome be, and not only to repeal this law; let us take a step further and move towards a law of public administration where we will also wait for you. We share a large part of the motion, so I will not go into it very deeply, but I would like to refer to the amendments that we have tabled from the Confederal Group and that we believe that they complete an insufficient motion to restore the universality and the necessary quality to public health, to which the People's Party has caused so much damage. You're talking about suppressing the copays introduced in 2012. From the Confederal Group of the European United Left, we believe that all co-sponsors, i.e. also pre-regulatory co-sponsors, should be abolished. Why? Because co-payers are the big problem that working and disadvantaged classes have, because they can't deal with medical spending, and I'll give you some data. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 million people do not withdraw medicines prescribed for economic reasons; 17% of pensioners leave treatment, and in the case of pensioners who charge less than EUR 400, this figure amounts to 28%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, since the purple ties are set, guess who is paying these poor pensions, who has the most precarious and the worst paid jobs. It is women, i.e. the main ones affected by the copago are women. Eliminating the co-sponsors - let us hope that you will join this motion - is irrevocable if we want to end the double punishment of women and the most vulnerable people. We share the need to strengthen primary care and want to introduce a topic that we believe is fundamental, such as the integration of Muface and other regimes within the general social security regime, of course by transferring the necessary resources to the autonomous communities. Why do we put this on the table? Because the case of financing the entities that make up the administrative mutualism is tremendous. These entities are - not only in these general budgets, but also in the previous ones - the greatest beneficiaries of the general budgets, and it does not seem to us that it is the private ones who receive the most funds from the Health section, money that we pay among all, while the lords of the People's Party cut public health mercilessly, because that must be for all. In conclusion, we want to pick up a fundamental line in the text of the motion on the need to be very vigilant in order to avoid abuse of concerts and outsourcings. It seems to us impeccable that they bring a motion, precisely today, in which they set aside the defence of the public and put in front of the PP government the reduction of public health expenditure and the correlative increase in private expenditure, as an example of their commitment to privatization, because the latter is undeniable. That the People's Party is committed to dismantling public services and, among them, to health, there is no need or need to prove it; that is the case, and we have plenty of examples of that. Now - and returning to the double soul that you have -, today you criticize how private health is financed above the public while in Andalusia, where you have been ruling for a long time, year by year you are devaluing the benefits of the public health system, but you throw yourself irresponsibly into the arms of private companies, such as Paschal Clinics, and in case someone doesn't know I will tell you what happened to Paschal Clinics. That this company was fined by the Andalusian Competition Council for defrauding the Andalusian Health Service and obtaining an illicit profit of 164 million in just two years. The United Left Parliamentary Group today has brought this issue before the prosecution, because the Andalusian Junta has looked elsewhere directly. Moreover, as it seems that this issue was not of sufficient importance and it was not significant enough that these companies were illegally enriched with the money of all Andalusians and Andalusians, you have renewed the concert with them again. It seems it wasn't enough with what they had already done. The Confederal Group is going to vote in favour and we hope that all the amendments will also be accepted, because they would greatly improve its motion, although we consider - as I say - that it is insufficient. In any case, we would appreciate it if, in addition to bringing motions without effective consequences to the plenary - all must be said - they would preach with the example where they govern, defend public health and stop fattening the private. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, because it is also not necessary to exhaust time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I tell you the same thing every time you present a motion and I will already repeat it as Grandfather Cebolleta: Do not present motions of eleven points, it seems that they present the electoral programme. It can't be, do much more restricted things that focus on the matter we want, because they shoot at everything, eleven points, and you can agree with ten, eight, new or eleven, no matter what, but it seems to me that what is done is to disperse rather than focus. It is a personal opinion; I will continue to say it and you will continue to present motions of eleven points. In any case, going to the question, we have almost no problem in anything that is being raised because in some of the issues - universalization, the cancellation of resources against autonomous regulations, the suppression of the copayo, the recovery from the ministry of the budget to compensate the autonomous communities with referrals of patients, to legislate for compensation for assistance to displaced persons to be made directly between the autonomous communities and the ministry - it is not only that we agree, but in all of them the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in those places where it is governing, as is the case with the Basque Government's Department of Health, has always been consistent with what is said in this motion. We have even publicly expressed them on more than one occasion not only in this rostrum or in the media, but in the follow-up committee and in the inter-territorial council itself, which is also where this series of issues are raised. So, we have nothing to blame for that. Focusing on a number of issues, such as withdrawing or giving up judicial remedies, we obviously agree, because, among other things, we have resorted to some measures that we have taken with the sole aim of bringing health to all people, regardless of their origin, their roles, their colour, their stay, etc. That has been done with the Basque Government's own resources and, as a result, it has been resorted to; we therefore fully agree. Mr. Igea, the quota thing is already boring; it's boring that they put the quota issue into anything, it's okay. They don't convince anyone anymore. [[Applauds]] In any case, I think you have to convince yourself constantly putting the mantra to see if anything... But it doesn't change anything. More questions. As for the royal decree, if we have criticized something we have been the famous royal decree, on which we have insisted more than once in this House. In addition, we always say the same thing, it arises with a truffled health goal because the goal was economic. And more than a decree of the Ministry of Health was a decree drafted by Montoro with the aim of collecting. But, moreover, it did not convince health and did not manage to save anything from an economic point of view. Besides, you didn't convince anyone because you only took it out with your own votes, when you had absolute majority. Or tempor or die! In any case, it seems that you have not yet realized that the famous goodness of that decree does not convince any of the groups. Later, a series of ornaments were added to this royal decree to see if they posed several questions and had some solution, but it was not worth it at all. Against the co-sponsor we have always shown ourselves, so I am not going to repeat some issues that have already been highlighted, because I no longer have time. On the other hand, fortunately, Euskadi has already transferred prison health and I think it is a great achievement and very good, moreover, that the prison population is cared for by whoever is closest, which is the autonomous community and its health services. Universality, after all, is that everyone has the right to health, wherever they are, obviously. When you criticize here - that one has more and another has less - look at those who do well, look at those who budget well, look at those who put a high percentage of their resources for health, for education, for social spending. That's what's good, the rest is Chinese tale.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course our group will always support those initiatives aimed at recovering the public, universal and quality health model, which is recognised even internationally, but which Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 was responsible for breaking. In this sense, we are particularly interested in the point proposed by the repeal of this royal decree, a point that we have all talked about because that is where we play the model we are proposing. In essence, this royal decree implies the abandonment of the principle of universality as it excludes disadvantaged and high-risk groups, such as irregular immigrants, from the health system and, instead, in a covert way - as has already been said - proposes the return to the logic of the management of social security, insured and benefited and recognized by the National Institute of Social Security. This really breaks, it's a model change. Let us remember that the principle of universality is enshrined in article 43 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to health protection, a right on which, we insist, our National Health System has been built and, within the framework of democracy, it is the model on which we have grown. According to Dr. Tedros Adhanom, Director General of the World Health Organization, no one should get sick or die just because they are poor or because they cannot access the health services they need. This year the World Health Organization has decided to dedicate World Health Day - on 7 April, just a month ago - to universal health coverage and calls on world leaders to respect the commitments they made when they agreed on the sustainable development goals in 2015 and to commit themselves to taking concrete measures to promote the health of all people. Notice to navigators. Why is universal health coverage important - WHO continues -? Because countries investing in universal health coverage make a significant investment in their human capital, and in recent decades universal health coverage has emerged as a key strategy for moving towards other broader health and development goals. On the other hand, the exclusion of disadvantaged and high-risk groups from the health system always leads to a public health problem affecting society as a whole. It is essential for us to preserve that universal right in the development of health policies. We do so on the basis of article 23 of our 2006 Autonomy Statute, which states that everyone has the right to equal and free access to public health services. For this reason and with the same intention as various autonomous communities have done, from Catalonia we continue to deploy the legislation that must continue to guarantee universal access to health care. This is the goal we have in Catalonia right now. Since the adoption of the Royal Decree 16/2012 the Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia or the Institut Català de la Salut have passed laws or instructions, despite repeated challenges opened by the contentious-administrative way. In this line, in June 2017 the Parliament of Catalonia passed Law 9/2017, on the universalization of health care, from public funds through the Servivei Català de la Salut, a law that with the approval of article 155 has not been able to be deployed. Today, precisely the Diari Oficial de la Generalitat de Catalunya publishes the admission to procedure of the application of unconstitutionality of this law promoted by the Government of the State. Irony of life; the same state that has intervened today by the Generalitat and that, if things do not change, should defend the Generalitat itself against its own appeal. 155's misalignments and side effects; we assume. Take note, gentlemen of the PSOE, for the purposes of 155. But who's breaking the law? There are several autonomous communities that have filed an appeal for unconstitutionality to the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. While it is true that the Spanish Constitution in its article 86.1 contains the power of the Government to adopt legislation with the rank of law, such as the Royal Decree-Laws, for extraordinary and urgent reasons, this power does not affect fundamental rights or the regime of the autonomous communities. The Government cannot restrict health care by means of a royal decree-law. Health care, as an essential part of the human right to health, is a universal and equal right recognized by a large number of international treaties and reflected in the Constitution and in different statutes of autonomy. But this is your democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not just talking about the violation of autonomous competences, it is much more serious: we are talking about the lamination and violation of basic rights and freedoms affecting all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Angolo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u104	Thank you, President. Today we are debating an already repetitive motion whose arguments are always the same: Spain goes wrong, the health system goes wrong as well and it is the fault of the PP. For, in the face of this permanent amnesia of the PSOE, we have to repeat that it was the measures of the People's Party, among others the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, that saved the system from bankruptcy, and that it did so by granting health to thousands of Spaniards who were denied it by the Socialists and who were only remembered by the PP; by correcting the socialist co-op, which made pay to those who had nothing and whom you want to pay again today because they do not care; by generating savings to pay the debts that you left, and by making available today, for example, new innovations that save lives, new reference centers that provide equity. The Constitutional Court, to which perhaps you do not want the Government of Spain to come, has said that in Spain the protection of health is guaranteed and that Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 complies with all international treaties. And above all, the PSOE tells us to back off. Well, look, we cannot reverse a management that has allowed communities today to have more state funding for social policies, which is going to allow us to negotiate a new funding model that will end up with the socialist model that you now deny. Because we too believe that there is a need for adequate and adequate funding for health care. For President Rajoy that is a priority and that is why the minister agreed with the health advisors to celebrate this same month an exclusive interterritorial on financing and work on sustainability, cohesion, equity, but from shared responsibility. Because you blame the Spanish Government for all the evils by omitting that the health skills are of the autonomous communities, that budget and provide the services, and perhaps you do so on purpose aware that their health management where they govern is not exactly an example. Let's talk about inequalities, Mr Fernández. Andalusia, the autonomous community with less health expenditure per inhabitant, less beds per inhabitant, leader in loss of health employment, shortage of specialists and precarious work and wages, where citizens suffer from drug shortages. And speaking of privatizations, those rules that you approved have one of the highest ratios of health concerts, that is, a covert privatization of health. Mr. Fernández, why don't you start by asking Mrs. Díaz to put an end to that situation in order to be credible here about what you are asking for? [[Applauds]] Health situation, by the way, which is so in Andalusia for the express support of Citizens. Why have Citizens done nothing in these years in Andalusia to improve the health situation? Why do they allow this deterioration of Andalusian public health while they remain silent in the face of so much scandal? Don't Andalusians deserve cleaning, gentlemen of Citizens? Start working there too because they need it too. [[applause]] Extremadura, my land: areas of health without essential services, technology without use due to lack of personnel, chaos in health transport, increase of referrals to the private, increase of 30% of the claims mainly by waiting lists. Do you know what is the solution of the socialist government of Extremadura to the greatest inequality, the waiting lists? The comprehensive waiting list plan: five leaflets and EUR 19.5 million. And it says: Waiting lists are a period of reflection for patients to decide whether to go to surgery or not; they are a disincentive for patients with economic resources to go to the private sector. There is no greater inequality than the waiting lists and the socialist government of Mr Fernández Vara tells us that waiting lists are a period for the patient to reflect and, moreover, for him to get tired and, tired of waiting, to go to private. Is that your model, gentlemen of the PSOE? Increase the concerts and decrease the beds? Cut into professionals and double the top positions? Less gowns and more ties? [[Applauds]] That's not the health we want. In the People's Party we will continue to work to improve the excellence of our system every day. You have told us here today about the vision of the health of some organisms. I will tell you about the citizens, who today say they would continue to support the People's Party for the Government of Spain, and the health barometer, which today offers the highest assessment of our health by the citizens in the last ten years. That is why we cannot support a motion in which, in general, we are asked to return to the situation of 2011, to inequality for many Spaniards. But look, we do want to work with you, gentlemen of the PSOE, from the responsibility: with the autonomous communities in the interterritorial council and with the parties getting that great pact of state, but without previous vetoes, Mr Fernández, and with good funding for our public service. [[applause]] That is what we believe citizens and professionals are demanding of us, and that is what we will certainly offer from the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Díaz, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u106	Let's trade some of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u107	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of the administrative and financial blockade of public research. [[File number 173/000089]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u108	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the situation of the administrative and financial blockade of public research. The author group of the initiative has the floor, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u109	Thank you, Madam President. With this motion my group wanted to make the situation of public research visible after six years of consolidated cuts, increased administrative procedures and expenditure control, to which must be added the non-management of a minister of science who never exercised as such. In the inquiry to Mr Escolano I explained in detail the main demands of the public research centers to facilitate their management and the research activity itself. These include the elimination of prior intervention, specific measures to increase budget implementation, speeding up the signing of agreements and payments to international bodies, simplification in recruitment processes or the multiannual management of funds. I am not going to go any further on this because it does not stop causing great sadness that the debates on science in this House are about administrative rights and not about scientific policy, which in itself is very revealing of the situation we are experiencing. I will, however, make an explicit mention of the point concerning the appointment of the Chair of the CSIC, because it is a milestone and an important step in putting on the political agenda what is already a cry in the scientific community. Political appointment by finger, as is done today, without the need to contribute a scientific project or without the candidate being valued by an independent committee of scientific experts is a feature inherited from Francoism that has no justification today. It therefore serves the support of the Congress of Deputies, which I hope will be given to this motion, and therefore to this point, so that both the Government and the political parties and the scientific community will begin to work on a new appointment mechanism that meets the scientific, political and ethical standards of the twenty-first century that an institution such as CSIC demands. Leaving aside the points put to the vote, I would like to refer to the personal commitment that the Minister expressed in his speech to make the necessary changes to the R & D+i system. My group sincerely hopes that the minister will exercise the right leadership because public science needs a minister who exercises as such and who will bring to the highest political level issues that are of the utmost urgency, such as the elimination of prior intervention and other empty bureaucracy issues that we have explained many times, the negotiation of the statute of the investigating staff in training, once and for all solving the law fraud resulting from the concatenation of temporary contracts, which is leaving great scientists, professionals on the street, or the absolutely priority issue of defining the necessary exceptions to the Public Sector Contracts Act. There are many open fronts that are nothing more or less than the consequence of the zero political weight that science has had in the government in recent years. But one thing that has changed in recent months is that people who do science in the public system have taken a step forward: they are counting on their desperate situation, are organizing themselves and are willing to fight for their rights and claim the importance of strong, resourced, competitive public research that takes care of our talent. Because it sounds too much to us what we are seeing: unbearable cuts, job insecurity, outsourcing of services, subcontracting and a dementia bureaucracy are leaving our public research inefficient and uncompetitive. Frankly, this strategy sounds like dismantling our public R & D system, which we have built with the money of all, which investigates beyond profit and economic performance. Public research, ladies and gentlemen, is an asset, a fundamental pillar of our society as education and health are. Be assured that in the same way that we go out to defend public services as an undeniable common good, in the same way that my colleagues today have reaffirmed our group's commitment to public education, with the same firmness and determination we are going to defend public science. [[The Lord]] I very much agree with the minister when he makes self-criticism and acknowledges that business investment in R & D+i is very low, because neither aid nor fiscal measures, nor public procurement, nor labour legislation, nor educational policy have been able to create the conditions for innovative companies to succeed. And that is the responsibility of the government and of scientific public policies or the non-existence of them in the last six years. It is the responsibility of the Government that there be conditions for companies to bet on R & D & I in their business model, because there, ladies and gentlemen, we are playing the productive model, the labour market and the economy in the coming decades. So welcome all the measures that the minister is putting in place in this regard, but we will be alert not to become a smokescreen that makes the urgent debate on the situation, the improvement and the future of public research in Spain go unnoticed. Let us hope, therefore, to be truly faced with a turning point that allows us to start a new stage in our R+D+i system. It is up to the minister to hear actors, collectives, institutions and bodies, to know their proposals, their demands, their requests and, from there, to implement a plan to rescue our science that will restore the hope, illusion and confidence of those who work there, a plan that contains at least urgent resources for where they are most needed, projects and personnel, and the recognition of specific needs, both in terms of administrative procedures and in the management of personnel, and that will, above all, eliminate precariousness. I sincerely believe that we are in time; we are in time to channel our R & D & i before the end of the legislature. The measures are well known, only to put them in place. We offer our cooperation, our constructive will, provided that there are minimums on the table to support public research and that the commitment is not only for Mr Escolano, who is of the entire government, including Mr Montoro, who is responsible for three of the four points that we ask for today in our motion and which correspond exactly to the demands of our public research centres. The ball, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore on the roof of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs González Veracruz spoke on behalf of the Socialist Group in the defence of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is always good news and good news that we are talking about science in this Parliament again, we have been doing it quite often lately and that makes it so that in the last few months we have said a lot of things here. We asked De Guindos when he was leaving, after six years of not dealing with science, and we asked Escolano, the new minister, to whom we are going to continue to give an opportunity but who for the moment does not seem to have come to deal with science. But above all we have heard Mariano Rajoy say here - asked by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in a session of control - that since 2014 this government has prioritized science, a more proof of not understanding anything that was happening, because in 2014 precisely that bureaucracy, that persecution, that pre-laboratory control was a reality, a decision by Rajoy and Montoro that would have to be passed because this House had already approved it to be completed, but today we have to re-support this proposal here because it remains a reality. But there's nothing better than what scientists say. Today I am going to refer more to what scientists and scientists say than to what parliamentarians have been denouncing and working hard in this House because, more clearly, water. In defense of the IEO, the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, three hundred scientists and scientists speak of agony in science and explain that in 2013 90% of the budget could be executed, but now, in 2017, they can only execute 50% precisely because of the bureaucratic obstacles that it is urgent to eliminate. Then the INIA manifests, three hundred more researchers talking about work paralysis in the laboratories. And most recently, researchers from the Carlos III Institute of Health: Science dies. And a black tie. That no, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a thing of a foundation, that it is not a thing of a party, it is a cry of scientists and scientists who are very hard to mobilize and who also do so with great rigour, and that before reaching this point they have already gone through offices, they have spoken with their addresses and have tried all they want, that is to be able to investigate in many cases with the money they get out, not even with the money that they are denying here cutbacks after cutbacks and poor execution after poor execution. [[Applauds]] I want to thank you, the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to thank you from here that you have mobilized, that many leaders of centers that do not go out in the media are going to the ministry, as you did last December, to a meeting that today, in May 2018, you still have no answer, to look for comprehensive solutions. And I also want to say very clearly because I have and we have a clear conscience that Parliament is doing its duty and that the responsibility for fulfilling what we are deciding here is that of the government, which is in a democratic anomaly that should not be allowed, because popular sovereignty is talking and supporting scientists over and over again. What we are approving today has already been approved in the Commission and it is not a reality; the government comes in through one ear and comes out through the other what this Parliament approves. As we also approved by agreement in the motion led by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in March of this year, some of the amendments that we have proposed and that we hope that the Group of We can accept, as important as the approval of the professional career of eight hundred researchers who had to have seen compliance with the Science Act in 2014, and today we know from the General Budgets of the State that the Government does not intend to comply with their rights or recognize them something they need precisely to compete in the rest of Europe. I'm done. Cutbacks, lack of budget execution, but also a red tape that is proving that this Government does not understand what is happening in laboratories. He does not understand the need for another economic model for this country and for our future and demonstrates it in the General Budgets of the State. That is why I appeal to hope, but above all to the People's Party, which has to change its policies, and to the Citizens' Group. If they were to respond to the amendments, studied and reasonable, that we put forward by the opposition groups, the reality from these General State Budgets would be very different: without prior intervention in the public research bodies, with the rights of eight hundred researchers who would have to have their career approved since 2014 and with a plan for the return of talent, which is urgent in our country. Parliament is doing its duty and the Government is responsible for it. Then we will have that pact for science so important because policies will be realities, as scientists and research centres need. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Mr Bravo Baena has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the vision of the People's Party is quite different from what we have heard here. I will begin by stating that we share with you the interest in further improving our R+D+i system. It has been, is and will be a priority for this Government. And allow me to substantiate this statement by reproducing statements both by the former minister, Mr De Guindos, and by the current one, Mr Escolano. They said: The government is fully aware of the role that R & D+i plays and is called to play as a lever for the future of the Spanish economy. That is our commitment to R & D+i. You, in your various proposals, speak of very different aspects. First of all, execution. The Minister and the Secretary of State have already explained to them that we have to distinguish the subsidy part from the loan part, and in the implementation part we are talking about 98% in the last year. It's more than positive data. And if we talk about loans, we agree. The absorption by companies has not been expected and therefore they have the minister's commitment in first person to reform this issue to make it closer and more affordable to companies. We must not use the data in a disaggregated way or confuse public opinion and let us not talk badly about a sector that is and will be the future. Proposal? Let us try to speak well of our own without losing the demand. [[Applauds]] Secondly, they talk about IPOs, with the exception of agreements. They know that there is a call for a working group between the Secretariat of State and the IPOs, so we understand that their proposal is accepted. As for financial control and prior intervention, they know that there have been meetings between the secretariats of State. And what have we achieved? Or what did they get? Or what have we all got? The minister told him: a simplified justification regime for IPOs is being worked on. And not just that. If all of us are able to carry forward the General State Budgets for 2018, do you know what its seventeenth final provision, paragraph 8, contains? The amendment of Article 149 of the General Budget Act, which will allow for the replacement of prior intervention by permanent financial control. [[Applauds]] Why do we keep telling what's not? Why don't we read our budgets? Why don't we want to do it? They talk about the staff contract, the INIA and the CNIO, but they don't say that was settled in December. Someone, when he made the Science Act, was forgotten to incorporate foundations and other agencies and the People's Party had to come and fix it. That's why you haven't been out of those centers. But not just that. They are forgotten when they say that it is lost personnel that the offer of public employment since 2015 has a replenishment rate in science of one hundred percent. Since 2015, no one has been lost and what has been lost before has something to do with the crisis. In addition, article 19, stabilization programme for interim staff. Do you think we should stabilize the interim staff to leave it below 8% in 2020? More positive data for science that you don't want to tell, but we do. Additional provision thirty-seventh, OPI researchers. They are recognized for their genders and quinquennials from 1 January 2018 onwards. There was doubt as to whether it had been since 1 January 2014. We have a Supreme Court ruling that's solved it. Since January 1st. That's it, it's settled. Is it so hard to tell the truth? There are problems and we have many, but let's count the good and not just the bad. [[Applauds]] Approval of the CSIC management contract. You know that the last draft was approved in March and has been referred to the Treasury. March! If you know, why do we count this? To generate alarm? I don't think it's good. Appointment of the President of the CSIC. It's a scientific institution. Why do we have to politicize her? If there are other international bodies or universities in which it is done in the same way, why does it have to be the CSIC? Do you mind that much? We agree on an international scientific assessment, but not on politicizing it; there we cannot agree. It is true that we will always see the glass half full. We will always see it half full because it is the attitude of the People's Party: always positive; if I may, never negative. I tell you that you have the offer of the Government, the offer of the Minister, the offer of the Secretariat of State and the offer of the People's Party. For what? For a parliamentary agreement for science, for a pact for science or whatever they want to call it, which gives us exactly the same. Call it whatever you want, but let's fix the problems. Do you know? We don't have an absolute majority and we can't do things on our own. This does not depend solely on the state and the autonomous communities? Don't the autonomous communities depend on you? And the universities? This affects us PSOE, Podemos, Citizenos, Esquerra Republicana, PDeCAT, et cetera. It affects us all and we have to do it among all of us. There are three important points. One is financing to reach up to 2% of gross domestic product. That is the objective we have set for them. Do you think that's right? Let's sit down. The other day I was told by a director of a centre that, even if it grew by only one tenth, by 2020 we would be at 1.5%. Never in Spain has 1.5% invested in science. This in the worst case and we offer you up to 2%. Secondly, we look after our researchers. It is important to take care of our researchers. It is the fundamental part of this project. Thirdly, let us resolve those administrative issues which must be improved, such as previous intervention. But, eye!, they are with public money; not without control, I think no one wants without control. It is true that we have room to improve if we all sit down, as we have done with the Contracts Act or as we try with the Education Pact or the Justice Pact. Why don't we sit down? Why don't we try it? Is it so complicated for you to sit with the People's Party? Or do you want to use the argument that we do not make a pact to have such a field in which you can criticize the People's Party, which is science? Let me finish, Mr. President. We cannot and must not continue to support this unfavourable environment which is exclusively detrimental to science. It is true that there is sectarian and partisan criticism and we are not going to let him intoxicate the speech, but we have important challenges and demands from many groups that with the effort of all - and, I repeat, of all - and together we are sure to face them satisfactorily and leave a legacy that we will be very proud of. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Bravo. Mr Martínez Oblanca is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion scorns many of the progress achieved after gradually overcoming part of the economic crisis that devastated the national economy with serious impacts on all sectors and, specifically, on public research. The most significant progress came with the adoption at the end of last year of the State Plan for Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation 20172020, which was the result of a widespread, broad and participatory consultation, in which the administrative and financial obstacles that chronically suffer from public research and for which answers have been offered that, in terms of economic resources, are displayed in the General Budgets of the State Bill for 2018 that you, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez, have announced will vote against even without knowing it. Several of the proposals put forward in the initiative ignore the budgetary framework set out in the State plan and go back - in the case of some of the paragraphs in point 2 of the motion - to the implementation of legislative measures of the beginning of the century long before the constitutional reform in which article 135 was amended, which is the condition since 2011 of the administrative, financial and budgetary regulations of our public institutions and bodies. We believe that the Government needs confidence and time to implement this newly approved plan and its four State programmes. This also includes the need for stability in state agencies so that they are not subject to squandering. With the motion of Podemos we want to change the system of appointment of the president of the CSIC, which is the largest body of science in Spain and one of the most important in Europe, but we see only disadvantages in that now such element of uncertainty is promoted by providing great changes in the selection process, just six months after being appointed - by the way, for the first time in Spain - a woman as president of the CSIC in seventy years of history. In short, except for another compromise text, I shall abstain in the vote on this motion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u117	Thank you very much, President. Children are often asked what they want to be older. What does this country want to be of the greatest? What future do we want? Clearly, if we want a bigger future, we must bet on a new productive model based on the commitment of research and innovation. If we are to be a leading country, we must understand that strong connection between investment in science and living standards. If we understand that, what should we do? More investment. The scientists were here, in Congress, presenting 275,000 signatures. Despite the vehemence of Mr Bravo, I am willing to sit down whenever and wherever I want to talk about this, and I understand that this is exactly what we have to do, but also make it possible in budgets because, as they say in my land, with money, torrons, with money, turrons. It means that if we want to move forward, we have to do it. And then a second factor that I think is very important for science to be able to work is to try to reduce the barriers. Many scientists have told me, many universities have told me, we have serious problems to be able to work. We are more likely to justify than research, and that is why there are many centers where research is paralysed and many researchers - and I finish - who are discouraged. Therefore, the measures proposed by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea seem reasonable to us and we will therefore vote in favour of them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví, Mr Bel Accensi spoke on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u119	Thank you very much, President. Quickly, because I have two minutes and I will not be able to make an extensive intervention. We are going to support the initiative and that does not mean that we do not recognize that something has been done right, but we also recognize that self-criticism is really needed. We have already discussed it on different occasions, if there is high execution in chapter 4 and chapter 7 and low execution in the loan chapters, the solution is easy, move on to chapter 4 and chapter 7, which there perform well. There's no will, really, there's no will. The new minister said: we are going to reform the system to encourage it. Well, we will wait, but there are problems and some have been solved in recruitment, yes, but that does not mean that there are no others. The minister recognizes this; we have a problem with indefinite non-fixed recruitment and this problem is not solved. With the Contracts Act we have improved some things and, sincerely - and we are all responsible - we have made some other things worse and will have to be resolved. We therefore believe that this motion is positive, that it poses some challenges that we will have to face and will therefore support it. I'm done. It is true - said the spokesman of the People's Party - that everyone here has their share of responsibility. They have certain governments, and the Government of the Generalitat too, but I must regret today that the adviser responsible for this area is currently in prison in Estremera along with other colleagues, when his colleagues have not been treated in the same way either in Switzerland, Belgium, Germany or Scotland. [[Applauds]] Anyway, let's keep working. We have initiatives in the same direction as we will be presenting to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs this week. Let us hope that these and all initiatives in favour of science will come from whoever comes from, will eventually be approved and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u121	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Before we argue our vote, I want to say something that your honourable Members already know, which is why they will also understand the meaning of it. In Euskadi we have exclusive competence in the promotion, economic development and planning of the economic activity of our territory, in accordance with the general management of the economy, and we therefore have exclusive competence in scientific and technical research, in coordination with the State. Today we can present a motion that encompasses different problems arising around R & D & I; some have been addressed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness and other political groups have also raised them through non-legislative proposals. On the one hand, the motion tells us about the low budget implementation and that an analysis must be carried out to know the reasons for it. Of course, it is necessary to reflect, to know why companies do not ask for credits for R & D+i policies, the amount of which the government increases. Its efficiency must be analysed so that demand-driven needs converge with those driven by advances in the scientific-technological supply generated. In short, promoting applied research requires greater connection between companies, universities and R & D+i centres. But it must also be said that, on the basis of this, the Minister himself, Mr Escolano, at his first appearance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, told us that a review of the instruments for financing innovation was going to be carried out to see if the products actually held by companies were being offered. It is a motion, as I have said, which encompasses some problems, which - it must be acknowledged - the Secretary of State for Science herself has tried to resolve, for example, the recruitment system, which was also addressed in December, and therefore its flexibility, as well as the need to modify the intervention system so that the management of these public research bodies, which have more specific features, is much easier. Of course, we believe that the system of control must be speeded up, especially for those projects which normally involve different aids under competitive conditions for which bureaucracy can be a burden, because we are all aware that the times in the administration are excessively broad and sometimes incompatible with what is required by other bodies, such as, for example, the European one. What is at stake is to eliminate those administrative burdens that do little to the R & D & i system. In this sense, one can also observe a small step in the 2018 draft State General Budgets, because a modification to limit this intervention or control is already established in the 17th final provision. With regard to the exceptions raised in the motion, although we agree with some of them, we believe that they need to be dealt with in a coordinated manner with the entities in this sector, because it is not only a matter of making good use of public money, but also of proper control of it, and everything can be achieved with dialogue and agreements. Finally, with regard to the regulatory changes proposed to amend certain appointments, I would like to comment that, of course, everything that implies independence and professionalism is good, but we do not know whether the proposal for an international scientific assessment can also entail an extension of time limits for such selection and, therefore, a further administrative hindrance. In any case, it always seems to us that the initiatives in which R & D & I is committed and which try to involve, in addition, a greater involvement and participation of the entities in this sector, which are those that really know and suffer the problems in the day-to-day and those that can help to achieve a more efficient R & D & I system. The State must develop a proper and efficient R & D+i management model that achieves an adequate public-private relationship that ensures both economic and social reforms. This motion seems appropriate in the sense that it seeks to make the current system more flexible, although of course we advocate going further, by a decentralized model consistent with the institutional architecture of the State and that it encourages coordination and cooperation between autonomous communities and the different initiatives that already exist in some territories, such as the Basque and Navarra Autonomous Communities. So, as I said at the beginning, having competence in this matter, in principle we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. Mr. Bravo, you have recourse to the dialectic resource of the half full or half empty vessel. I've always had the impression that he sees it half full that he's drunk the missing medium, but it's just a feeling. Besides, I'm proposing a thesis. In the debate of 'that they invent' I fear much that Unamuno won Ortega. Today we are debating this motion as a result of urgent questioning of the minister. Too bad you couldn't attend because very interesting things have been said. Since that Ortega debate and more recently, R+D+i is not news for its good health, which is what it should be, but because the system is starting to break. Of this you have a lot of guilt - from the recent part - Mr Montoro. The new minister who has just arrived is already taking the pulse of his ministry and is sure to see how from other areas of his government they have not yet been able to appreciate the importance of R & D+i for education, for the economy and, ultimately, to profile the country model in the future. A further proof of the lack of pulse that our spokesman demonstrated in a memorable speech in the debate of amendments to the entire budgets, which updated what Silvela had already expressed over a century ago: without pulse. Let me tell you that Catalan public research policy since the end of the last century has had a continuous vision, despite changes in government, based on two pillars: trust in talent and flexibility in structures. Trust in talent, both attracted and generated, without taking into account its origin and nationality; and flexibility in structures so that requirements and international competition can be adapted to capture economic resources and attract competitive talent. This has led Catalan science to obtain remarkable results in the ERC, which are not only the acronyms of my parliamentary group, but of the European Research Council, which has led Catalonia to obtain a total of 269 ERC aid, 3.18% of the total, at the 2007-2017 call. In short, as I said, trust and flexibility. Moreover, this confidence implies that controls should be more results-oriented than bureaucracy. It is not so much a question of analysing train ticket receipts as of counting the items that are produced and the patents that are generated. But it also means making it clear that research is an economic and economic impact activity beyond the direct sales of scientific services, and that the exploitation of the knowledge generated and the trained personnel that the research ecosystem puts at the disposal of the productive fabric cannot be overlooked. Recently, we have seen how new demands are being added to the half-empty glass. You have already been quoted from Summa, Asebius, and the CRUE, among other multiple manifestos and petitions of all kinds. Therefore, in addition to increasing investment in R & D & i, it is necessary to unblock the administrative problems that are currently affecting the institutions and which present difficulties in VAT inspections, in terms of public procurement or in terms of recruitment of staff. The latter is especially important because the talent that is being wasted is immense, condemning many young people to an unwanted scientific exile. In the end, it turns out that reality spoils the PP any good intention he wants to show. Just today we were getting up with a headline who said that the government continues to turn its back on R & D & I and cuts 500 million from the budget in just three months. IGAE data show that the government has decided to cut the research budget by almost 500 million and, for the most part, of the 4100 million, only 165 have been invested in the first three months of the year, i.e. only 4% of the budget. Faced with this scenario, scientists wonder - because scientists often ask questions - who you do the General Budgets of the State for. Disagree, Mr Bravo, in the debate of 'they invent', Unamuno won Ortega, and I am very afraid that the PP has come to corroborate my thesis. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u125	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We can agree with you, Mr de Podemos and Mr Socialist Party, that science, research and innovation are not a priority for this government. Unfortunately, it is also true that Mr. Rajoy lacks the initiative and leadership that, for example, President Obama had with his Brain project or that currently President Macron has with his artificial intelligence project. In this we agree and also agree that it is creating a serious problem and a serious injury to our country, because our future, our progress, depends on science and innovation. If we really want to grow, if we really want to make progress, if we really want to generate jobs, we must bet firmly and decisively on science and innovation to try to reach the most leading countries in our environment, because without science there is no future. All that is true, as are the deficits of the Spanish science system that you point out in your motion, but before this reality, before these facts, there are two ways of acting. There is the form of Podemos and the form of the Socialist Party, which consists of presenting GNP and motions, writing tweets, making videos, manifesting itself, all of which is very good and of course legitimate, but at the time of truth it has no legal consequences, has no practical consequences and therefore nothing changes. The other option is that makes Citizens, which is to sit down, try to negotiate, try to agree with those who don't think like you, with those who don't bet on science, but try to negotiate to change things for real and be useful to the Spaniards. Because, Mr de Podemos and Mr Socialist Party, how things really change here, how things really change in this House is by adopting initiatives that then have a transfer in the BOE. And although we approve this motion, unfortunately, it will not be approved in the BOE and will not have practical consequences. But we have an opportunity, an opportunity for budgets, where we can improve our science system. He has tabled a number of amendments to these Citizens' budgets, some of the proposals that appear in the Podemos motion and some others. We have tabled amendments to eliminate something as claimed by our science system as is the prior intervention for IPOs; to increase flexibility in the recruitment of staff; to amend the Public Sector Contracts Act, to introduce the exception to science in the procurement of supplies. We have also tabled an amendment to increase the deadline for collaboration agreements to 10 years; to introduce specific regulations for strategic consortia; and to eliminate the requirement for the Council of Ministers to make contributions to international projects, programmes and agencies. But do you know how sad and dramatic all this is? That when these measures, when all this is going to be voted on, when all these changes can be real, when there can be real improvements for our science, you, Mr de Podemos and Mr de Partido Socialista, will vote no. You'll hit the red button and you'll do it because you're unable to negotiate and agree. And in a scenario like the one we are going to live, those who are not able to agree and negotiate with those who do not think the same, will not be; they will be unable to govern. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are already telling you that we will vote in favour of this motion, but we ask you that when the budgets arrive and when it is time to vote you think that with yours you will not be voting against many of those measures that you carry in that motion and that they are good and highly demanded by our science. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Martínez Rodríguez whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u127	Yes, we are trading with those presented by the Socialist Party. We will send the compromise to the Bureau and the other political groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-08-CD180508.u128	Thank you very much. The sitting is suspended, ladies and gentlemen. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
