ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, do you share the statements of your parliamentary spokesman that the demonstrations of pensioners on the street 'are useless'?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. I do not know that the parliamentary spokesman has said that. In any case, I remind you that my party, my Government and I have always expressed the utmost respect for those who exercise the legitimate and constitutional right to manifest themselves. Last week, without going any further, you asked me about the mobilisations on 8 March and my answer was that it was an expression of the need for everyone, especially the public authorities, to work to combat all the gaps that still exist between men and women, and today I say the same about the mobilizations to which you refer. They are the expression of the need for us to continue working to pay, improve and guarantee pensions and I assure you that where we can best work is in Parliament and within the Toledo Pact. Pensions are defended both from government action - it is important to make a good economic policy that generates growth, employment and, therefore, resources to maintain and improve them - and also from the opposition with credible and consumable proposals and not with empty words or cheques without funds. We must worry about today's pensioners and work for those who will be tomorrow and, therefore, I appeared at the Courts - as you will be sure to recall - last week, I made proposals and committed myself to working and seeking agreements within the framework of the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u6	Mr Rajoy, this Friday your spokesman minister said you have to listen to the voice of the street, he was referring to another case, but I'm telling you that too. You have to listen to the voice of the street and you have to listen to the voice of the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who have come out to claim decent pensions. And you know why you have to listen to them? Because it is not fair or worthy that they take five years with a rise of only 0.25% of pensions. Because it is not fair and dignified that they have a 0.25% increase in pensions by 2018 when the CPI is going to grow around 2%. Because it is not fair or worthy that they receive a letter with the announcement of an increase of 1, 2 or 3 euros. And in the meantime, Spain continues to grow to 3%. Meanwhile, you made a tax amnesty of 40 billion. Meanwhile, 77 billion banks have been rescued, of which only 19% will be recovered. You were talking about acquired inheritance; as a result of your management, there is at present a structural deficit of 80 billion in social security and you have done what you have done is to leave the Pension Reserve Fund without anything. Now you come here to make announcements that minimum pensions will be raised, when possible, or widow's pensions. How are we going to believe you if you haven't touched widow's pensions for six years? Pensioners in this country are already sick of empty words and tired of empty words because they are overcoming the burden of the crisis, while you look elsewhere and favor unequal growth. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, listen to your spokesman, listen to the voice of the street and, more importantly, listen to your foreign colleagues. I will not ask you to do as Mrs Merkel, whose first position has been to raise pensions by 3%, but I do ask you to listen to other European colleagues who are making the revaluation for pensioners allow them not to lose purchasing power. You go out to Europe with your head high and increase and revalue the pensions of Spanish pensioners. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u8	You should not have been very satisfied with your speech last Thursday because I don't know what the point is of repeating it here, it is true that with less words and the same brilliance. The truth is that, after having held seven days ago four long hours of debate, you continue to seek confrontation and not agreement and put all kinds of pretexts. With absolute frankness, I do not know what path you or you have chosen and where the end of that path leads, but the truth is that the important thing is what you do when you rule. You talk about revaluation and applied the worst revaluation index in history, which is zero, and how you want inflation to be 2.9, the loss of purchasing power was 2.9. [[Applauds]] But worst of all, they did an economic policy that led to an increase in unemployment by 3 million people and that, of course, jeopardized pensions and many other things. We are going to continue working for employment, we are going to try to continue working on the Toledo Pact to make an agreed decision that will reassure people. We invite you if you want, and if you don't, we'll do it alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES IT NORMALLY CONSIDER THAT IN A COUNTRY OF OccidentAL EUROPE THAT DEMOCRACY IS PREDECTED WITH A LAW OF FRANCHIST OFFICIAL SECRETS WHOSE REFORM HAS BEEN ACCEPTED TO TRAMITED BY THIS CAMERA A YEAR AND A MIDDLE AGO AND THAT THE GROUP TO WHICH YOU KEEP BLOCKED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000578]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u10	Question also addressed to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u11	Good morning, Mr. President. Do you think it is normal for us to be governed by a classified information regulation that is of Francoist era and with the parameters and spirits it contains?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I actually wonder about a bill from your parliamentary group in this House and about certain decisions that have been taken here. You know that everything concerning processing, time limits and other extremes is up to the House to decide, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The only thing the Government can do is to oppose the assumption that such a bill would increase expenditure or decrease income, which is not the case and therefore we have not opposed its processing. As I have been informed yesterday, amendments have been tabled to this proposal for a law by your group and I, frankly, believe that it would be good to seek agreements during the procedure. It is a sensitive issue, which affects issues that are very important to citizens, and I am therefore at your disposal and that of all groups to try to reach something reasonable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u15	Mr President, I ask you beyond parliamentary procedure. You have been - that is true - year and a half at the helm with the Socialist Party and with Citizens, delaying the processing of the bill's proposal. Instead of pushing it forward, they've delayed it and avoided it, and they've probably negotiated it. And now they're putting in some catapardian amendments to change so they don't change anything. To begin with, they are presenting an amendment to the whole - which I do not know how the Bureau is going to admit it and, if it does, it will be a scandal - to the bill that had been passed. And then they present a battery of amendments, but also, as I say, an amendment to the whole. That deadline has passed. The secret subjects aim to bring them up to the age of fifty, twenty-five plus twenty-five, up to the age of fifty. Compared to other countries, it is not sustained. But they can also do so indefinitely, with a generic statement that speaks of a risk to people's integrity. They can sort things generically. According to its proposal, the Government, the Council of Ministers may issue classification directives classifying information in a generic manner according to its own nature. As a delegated authority for classified information, they appoint the director of the CNI, that is, the fox to take care of the henman. There may be a classification of secrets that have occurred. They say: well, if someone asks for something but is not classified, at that time it can be classified. And until when - so that the citizens know - will we not see documents that are now classified as secrets? According to you, until 2023 nothing, and that is if it has been classified before 1968; after year by year, with a difference of fifty years. The lords of Citizens propose that until 2040 nothing declassified. And what has already disappointed me completely is that of the Socialist Party, until 2030 nothing. And the papers, for example, that the Zapatero government classified in 2010 with Moratinos generically until 2045 will not be visible. This is a mockery for everyone and a mockery for historians, who have to travel from archive to archive abroad. That it is not watered down and that we are forced to vote no, is disappointing this little will and the failure to comply with the conventions. This more than a democratic rule of law, Mr President, with this regulation, which is Gatopardian, becomes a dark state of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u17	Mr Esteban, as you can see from your own speech, this is a matter on which the House is already working and the procedure is under way. I, as I said before, am prepared to talk about the rules on official secrets and how it can be improved or updated, which does not mean that you are right in all the approaches you have made. Last 22 November I told you this in this House, but I also reminded you that this is an issue in which we should be very fine, we must act wisely and with common sense, we must be careful, it is a very delicate matter and it affects something that matters to us all as citizens, which is our defence and the security of the State and of the people. We are prepared to revise this regulation, as I have said, to modernise its content, and also to incorporate categories of information and procedures set out in the international agreements signed by Spain. It is essential - that is my opinion - that there be as much consensus as possible, I do not think that this should be a law that is drawn by majority; therefore, we will work to achieve consensus. And I remind you that there is something very important: we too must see what the countries in our environment are doing, where there is also a regulation on the protection of official secrets, and Spain with those countries participates in forums for cooperation in security and defence and it is logical that our classification systems are approved. All these considerations must therefore be taken into account and, from there, we will try to work with the utmost common sense on the basis that it is an issue that we must take very seriously because, I insist, it affects issues that matter not only to us, but to our partners and allies such as security and defence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u18	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JORDI XUCLA I COSTA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE PRESIDENT AWARE that his decision to hang on to the commander of the Persian Civil Guard, responsible for the violence used by the State on 1 October against the peaceful citizens, is an insult to all those who condemn the gratuitous violence? [[File number 180/00577]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u19	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Jordi Xuclà i Costa of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you like to introduce yourself as someone who rules from common sense, reasonableness and proportionality. Do you consider that it helps to derail the political situation that is experienced in Catalonia by the rise of Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos to the head of the Civil Guard Command in Madrid?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Xuclà, the appointments of the Civil Guard do not make them - with absolute frankness - the president of the government, they are made by the General Directorate of the Civil Guard according to the rules of operation of the body. According to me, what you mention is not an ascent, it is a change of position or destination, which is not the same; and you are not commander, we are talking about a colonel. From there, the Civil Guard did what it did, which is the substantive issue that you raise, was to carry out a judicial mandate and, therefore, to comply with your obligation. Others believe that judicial mandates must not be met, and I cannot share that approach. Therefore, from there, I do not consider, which is what you also ask, no insult to the change of destiny - I insist - of the person to whom you refer, and I believe that with that no one is insulted. The Civil Guard never does, but the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u23	Mr. Xuclà, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u24	Yes, Mr President, it is an ascent and a decision that has a clear political burden and sends a message of contempt to all those who condemn the violence applied by the State on 1 October. Referring to the facts, in October 2017 a process of internal selection was started to cover the vacancy of the highest official of the Civil Guard in Madrid. Days before the square was covered, the Directorate General of the Civil Guard left the post deserted despite three crowns with a very outstanding trajectory. Within the body it was a secret to voices that this was a reserved square for Pérez de los Cobos, who five months earlier was the most responsible for an atrocious and heinous violence used by the State against peaceful citizens. His message, the message of the Government, is that the Government rewards free violence and the Government rewards the person who appeared at the Civil Guard headquarters in Yecla on 23 February 1981 to join the coup d'état. His Government rewarded the person investigated by the Urra case of ill-treatment of a detainee who had ended Spain's conviction by the United Nations Committee against Torture and the conviction of three subsequently pardoned civilian guards. Mr President, never speak to us again about proportionality or speak to us from the government about manipulation of images because the Spanish TV news council has shown who manipulates the information. This ascent is a huge insult to all of us who horrified the police repression of October 1, a much wider majority than the current parliamentary majority in Catalonia, and you know it. Correct, apologize for the incarnated violence, dismiss and not promote your highest police officer. I say maximum police responsibility because the maximum political responsibility is you. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Xuclà, I cannot share your words. There is no political burden nor is it an ascent, I repeat, nor is it a contempt for anyone, nor has there been free violence, nor is it an insult to anyone. The Civil Guard is one of the best-rated institutions in our country, protects our security, guarantees the freedom of the Spaniards and ensures compliance with the law. The only ones who don't like the Civil Guard are those who skip the law to the bullfighter. I therefore support that decision, which, as I have said before, is not my responsibility, but rather the responsibility of the Directorate-General of the Civil Guard. From there, Mr Xuclà, I am not going to do an analysis of everything that has happened in Catalonia in recent times because everyone knows it so well, but they have broken all the boundaries, they have jumped the law, they have divided people, they have thrown companies, they have underestimated the state, they have overvalued their leaders and, if not, see what is happening right now. I would recommend that you look forward, put a clean candidate, comply with the law, and see if we are able to build something positive among all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONE IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: SHARE THE VICE-President OF THE PROPOSAL OF HER PARLIAMENTARY GROUP TO MAKE A SELECTION TO NEWS TO COMBAT DISINFORMATION? [[File number 180/00581]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u27	Questions now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Firstly, question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning. Does the Vice-President share your parliamentary group's proposal to seal the news to combat misinformation?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montero, for this Government and many others, the misinformation and misuse of personal information is a very serious threat to democracies, coexistence and political pluralism. It is a concern we share with Western democracies, with the European Union, with the Council of Europe, with NATO, with technological platforms and with the media. And the government, of course, respects the debates in this House and what it always seeks is the balance between two rights: of course, freedom of expression, but also the right to receive truthful information. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u32	Of course, you have not answered the question of whether you share the proposal of the seal because what you are proposing is nothing more and nothing less than a censoring body composed of your Government and the heads of the media groups who like your colleague Cospedal to intervene in social networks and the media and decide what information is, in your opinion, true and which are false. Freedom of expression, but with limits, let's see if we're going to stop with freedom of information and expression, shall we, Madam Vice President? It is not the freedom of expression in the networks and in the media that is jeopardizing the right to information of the Spaniards. If we talk about false news, you have lied to the Spaniards in the Prestige crisis, in the weapons of mass destruction, which led us to a criminal war under their responsibility, and in the terrible attacks of 11 March. [[Applauds]] They have created a political police force in the Ministry of the Interior to produce false news and disseminate false information against their political opponents. [[Applauds]] The Spanish Radiotelevision Information Boards have documented about five hundred - five hundred - complaints of censorship and information manipulation. You can talk to your spokesman, Mr Hernando, who was participating in a disinformation campaign yesterday about the death of Mmame Mbaye, which has caused the shock of the information professionals themselves in this country. [[Applauds]] You're the biggest fake newsmakers in this country, Your Honor, and, if I may tell you, you always put the fox in charge of the chickens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u34	Just as they put the accounts of the Spaniards in charge of gentlemen and ladies, whose party has been illegally financed, they want to put freedom of information and false news makers to tell what is true and what is false. Disinformation is fought with education, culture and guaranteeing rights. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u36	As you said, freedom of expression and also the right to information, but we must provide tools and resources for justice, because this country can't take more gags. I'm gonna recognize something. I have read some of your statements, in which you say that misinformation is fought with education and not with censorship. I would ask you, Madam Vice-President, if you really think this, to win the battle in your Council of Ministers and in your party against Mrs Cospedal and all of yours, who want to run a censure so that the truths that bother you are not known in this country. [[Applauds]] Make sure your party doesn't lie as much as it steals, Madam Vice President. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u37	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go ahead, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, it is you yourself who have chosen this week to speak in this House of fake news, the week of the already known as Lavapiés bull, which you quote joyfully. [[Applauds]] If there is a party that has been comfortable not only with misinformation, but also shaking it is precisely We can, including you, Mrs Montero, because beyond regretting any death, which I believe the whole House does, you yourself at one and ten in the morning of the car night, with great sleepless tweeter, added to that indignation. [[Greetings.-Mrs. Montero Gil: Cheerful!]] You yourself, in the bubble of Lavapiés. You feel very comfortable in misinformation and have been pioneers in censorship. Attention, Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Do you remember - I return to the City Hall of Madrid - the portal of truth? It was an initiative of Mrs. Carmena who was called the Original Version, so that there would be a single truth, the truth of the City Hall of Madrid and Mrs. Carmena. You're pioneers. A long time ago, before this House talked about misinformation and fake news, Mrs Carmena was already imposing the official view. He talked about Spanish Television. I'm sorry we're more humble. We do not have that vocation of control of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who said that his greatest illusion in life was to be director of Spanish Television. [[Applauds]] We, Mrs Montero, do not say that the private media need public control, nor do we have complaints from the Madrid Press Association about harassment and pressure. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mrs Montero, in this of the new policy there is very little news and much fake, especially in your group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT are the reasons that have led the GOVERNMENT to remove the person responsible for the secretariat of the CITIZENSHIP OF CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/00592]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u39	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u40	Thank you, President. Vice President, what I'm going to ask you now I'd like it to be a fake news too, but it seems to be true. It seems that it is true that they have had to dismiss after a charge against Mr Molons, a person who is at the head of a responsibility in the Generalitat. The Spanish Government was supposed to control the accounts of the Generalitat since 15 September. On 15 September Mr Montoro and his Government took control of the Generalitat's accounts in the face of the threat of 1 October. On the way, in August, on several occasions Mr Montoro said here in the parliamentary seat: The Generalitat has not spent any public resources in the referendum. Montoro: Not a euro will pay for illegal activity. Mr Rajoy here in Parliament on 7 February said that no euro had been earmarked for that coup against democracy. Madam Vice President, that seems to be all a lie. I would like to ask you which of the following two things has happened: either the Government of Catalonia has taken the lead of the Government of Spain - and therefore of all the Spaniards - or Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy have taken the lead of all the parliamentarians and all the Spaniards lying in Parliament. Which of the two things happened? Did you really lie in this Parliament or did the Government of the Generalitat take you for granted? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u41	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u42	Mr. Rivera, you were asking about Mr. Molons' ceasing. Mr. Molons' cessation has taken place after an investigation by the Civil Guard and the police forces. It wasn't the only stop. There have been others before, 260 cessations in the 120 days of the duration of article 155; 14, which were the ones agreed with you in the application of article 155, and another 240 on behalf of this Government to carry out the demolition of the State structures that the Generalitat of Catalonia had created. Mr Rivera, the Government and the rule of law are ensuring compliance with the law, and it would be good for us in this House, instead of publicizing what smart people look like, to strengthen that rule of law. You're part of it too, Mr. Rivera. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u43	Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u44	Madam Vice-President, if you don't understand me, I'll ask you again. Why did you lie to Parliament and Mr Montoro said in the Commission and Mr Rajoy also said that no euro had been earmarked for the coup d'état in Catalonia? I'm giving you information that I don't like. I told you I'd like it to be a fake news, but it's not a fake news. He's out of Judgement No. 13 in Barcelona. It's a judge who's investigating, it's the police and the Civil Guard who's investigating 2.2 million. While we are rushing to the last cent in the budgets and while one euro more or one euro less is being discussed in the pensions, it turns out that the separatist government spends all the Spanish money. As a party that supported the Government to enforce the law, we would like the Government to act. I wish, Madam Vice President, that wasn't true. I wish it hadn't happened. The problem is it's happened. Madam Vice-President, I ask who of your Government is going to assume responsibility for allowing this barbarity. We don't want public money spent on separatism. You have control of the accounts since September 15th. You, along with Mr Montoro, are responsible for these accounts. I ask you, after you have lied to Parliament or been fooled, who of your Government is going to assume responsibilities so that this does not happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u45	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, you said so yourself. The judges are investigating, but you come here in the morning to sentence. I will tell you what this government is working for. This Government is working to weaken independence and strengthen constitutionalism. We maintain consistency and do not join any conjuncture, Mr Rivera, because you defend one thing, the opposite, the extreme and the intermediate. [[Mr Rivera Díaz shows a headline reading: 'Montoro: 'Not a euro will pay for an illegal activity'']] No, don't teach me covers, Mr. Rivera. If you want hemerotheque, I'll tell you what you thought of what the government has done and what it was doing with 155. Do you remember, Mr Rivera, at the beginning of the process when you asked for more politics and more waist with independence? Do you remember, Mr. Rivera, when you said that applying Article 155 would be fantastic for the independenceists and that there was... Mr. Rivera, will you let me? [[Rumors]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] I don't care if I run out of time, will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u47	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u48	All right, I'll keep going. We should avoid overacting. That is why we were recommended in September, when you were talking about what Mr Montoro was doing, that we should do nothing. What's more, what you wanted to do was a motion of censure, Mrs. Arrimadas with twenty-five and now she doesn't dare with thirty-six. And then, Mr. Rivera, what they simply told us was that we would call elections, because the worst thing was to be with a government manager, Mr. Rivera. It is much smarter to give the Catalans the voice than to give the voice to a delegate of the PP government. Mr. Rivera, you make more opposition... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u49	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GARCIA MIRA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHEN WILL THE GOVERNMENT REMIT THE ANNOUNCED CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION LAW? [[File number 180/00587]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u50	Question to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mr Ricardo Antonio García Mira from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u51	When will the government refer the announced Climate Change and Energy Transition Act to Congress?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u52	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u53	Your Honor, as you know, the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act will aim to establish the regulatory framework through which Spain, our country, will contribute with all the Member States of the European Union to the fight against climate change and to achieve the energy transition for the next decade. However, we must first have adopted Community legislation, and once we have Community legislation, we will transpose it into our legal system. And of the three elements of Community legislation, both the emission reduction package and the energy transition package and the sustainable mobility package, we still have neither a European nor a single approved standard. Some are in greater or lesser degree of processing, for example the climate package is much more advanced than the energy package and we are quite late in the sustainable mobility package, and when we have it we will be incorporating it into the text. I think it is logical that we first have European legislation and then do Spanish legislation. That's how the laws have always been done in our country, and I think we don't have to change the way we do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. García Mira, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, despite his words, after the repeated announcements of President Rajoy and the minister, the truth is that today we still do not have the promised law of climate change. It is not that we do not have it, Mr Nadal, that citizens do not have it, which means that the cities and spaces in which they live are more polluted; that people's health is more threatened by less and less breathable air; and that uncertainty is taking over businesses and our productive sector. In short, climate change has to do with people, Minister, but you have devoted yourself to inflaming public opinion with your proposals on coal or nuclear, rather than following the recommendations of the European Union winter package to develop a vision, objectives or strategy for action for 2030 and 2050. Let us hope that the report of the Committee of Experts which is about to see the light will help facilitate the political debate on this task. We know that the reduction of renewable energies, wind and photovoltaics, are a great opportunity for our country, but you have devoted yourselves to putting obstacles to its development for years. When dialogue and consensus are needed to ensure a just energy transition to decarbonisation of the economy and to worry about vulnerable consumers and workers and regions affected by that transition, you do just the opposite. In the latest climate action index that analyses the climate change policies of the most polluting nations, Spain has lost 5 points compared to last year and 16 points compared to 2014. Just three years ago Spain occupied the position of twenty-two in this index. This year, however, our country has dropped to thirty-eight of the fifty-six analysed, and the worst of all is that it is already at the level of those countries that do least to combat warming. CO2 emissions since 2012 will be added to 2017 emissions as a result of drought, lower hydropower production and a standstill in renewable energies. We can thus lose several trains, that of energy autonomy, that of the balance of our trade balance, that of the democratization of energy, research and innovation. We cannot lose any more, Mr Nadal, we need that law, and there is a great social consensus on the need for it. Minister, take it and do it with intelligence for once. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u56	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u57	Your Honor, support for renewable energy is done as we have done, 4000 megawatts of wind and 4000 megawatts of photovoltaics at market prices that do not cost a single euro in premiums to Spanish consumers, while you have squandered 250 billion euros, at a rate of 10 billion dollars a year for 25 years, in the most expensive renewable energy in the world - which you put in between 2008, 2009 and 2010-, an energy that no one else put in because obviously that was a waste and which supposes that the Spaniards pay a very expensive electricity. To bet on the environment is to do things head-on, not by ideology and certain interests that you liked at the time, so that Spain would have a bill of EUR 10 billion a year in electricity that we could have saved ourselves. That's doing things head-on, Your Honor. What are we doing? Put renewable energy that competes, put renewable energy that lowers the price, put renewable energy that allows us to meet the climate goals and at the same time help the Spanish economy. Of course we have to defend nuclear energy, I tell you so clearly, because it doesn't emit CO2. I don't know if you know, but don't emit CO2, it's cheaper and it also produces on a base, which is very important. There is no renewable energy that produces 24 hours a day seven days a week - it does not exist - then, to produce 24 hours a day, what do we use, thermal or nuclear? I think nuclear is better. The other day... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u58	Thank you very much. I remind you both of your ladies and gentlemen and of the rostrums that no photographs can be taken in the Chamber. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CIVIL GUARDY ON THE LAST DAYS IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00590]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u59	Question is now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u60	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Zoido, what do you think deserves the police and judicial action of March 15th at Omnium headquarters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u61	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u62	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Rufián, the proceedings carried out by the Civil Guard in Barcelona last week were due to the execution of the instructions issued by the investigating judge number 13 of Barcelona. These decisions were therefore not driven by the Government or by the party that supports the Government, but were the result of a judge's decision. Fortunately, in our country we live in a rule of law and there is a division of powers, so the Government has nothing to value, except to say that the Civil Guard honours, professionally, seriously and rigorously comply with orders emanating from the judicial authority. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u64	Thank you very much, President. I want to make different considerations to you, Minister. The first is that it does not speak of the Francisco Franco Foundation, but it speaks of a foundation, such as that of Omnium, that survived Francoism and that I can assure you that it will survive you too. The second consideration is: Do you think it is normal for ten workers to be imprisoned in a room at Omnium headquarters, that they are required to have personal email, that they are required to have a personal phone, and that, for example, they are told that they cannot contact their families for hours? Do you think it's normal for a civilian guard to tell those ten people to be careful, to remember what happened on September 20 because maybe if they mount a demonstration they end up in jail, like Jordi Cuixart? - That's what happened. Do you think it's normal for the Civil Guard not to deliver a copy of the court order? The second consideration - it has been published twenty-four hours ago - is that your police and yourself point out to the CDRs, in fact, points to my partner David Fernández, my partner Antonio Baños and my partner Rubén Wagensberg. He's got a lot of work because we're a lot. So you can point it out now. The third consideration is that he resigns. I ask you to resign because you lied in parliamentary office when you denied the authorship of the threats to political dissent by your lieutenant colonel, troll at night, Daniel Baena. This gentleman is the head of the political police in Catalonia and is a troll at night. I recommend you resign. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u65	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u66	Thank you, President. Mr. Rufián, I see that, once again, you are within what I would consider an absurd conspiracy theory. You may have your grace, I'm not saying no, for a TV show or a tweet, but I find nothing serious about using it in this House. You live in a permanent contradiction. You are against the Civil Guard and the National Police, whom you even dared to call in this House savages, but, on the other hand, you praise the mossos because you say they will never go against the Catalan people. I'll tell you another contradiction, you don't like judges and you haven't even hesitated to call Supreme Court judges jailers; that is, I'm sure you don't have the same opinion as Mr. Santiago Vidal, with whom you have a lot of affinity. [[Laughter]] You repeat that you cannot go against democracy because it is unstoppable and, at the same time, insists that this democratically elected government should be thrown out. You said that you would be here eighteen months, not one more day, in a House that is not ours, but you are still here, a year after the deadline to which you yourself had committed has expired. [[applause]] His problem is that he devotes much more time to trying to draw attention to the object of atrezzo and headlines supposedly adventurous and ingenious rather than trying to articulate solid arguments. Mr. Rufián, your problem is that you defend that the law is not being complied with in order to achieve your objectives, and the difference is that the others defend the right of everyone to express their ideas and also opinions, within the Constitution, of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and of the rest of the legal system. That's the difference between you and me... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u67	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MRS CARMEN ROCÍO CHOLO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY DOES THE BUDGETARY COMMITMENTS FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE? [[File number 180/00588]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u68	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. From the deputy doña Carmen Rocío Cuello Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u69	Thank you, President. Today, unfortunately, we have risen with an alleged case in which a father kills his children. Minister, in November the Congress unanimously approved, also with its vote, a resolution of the Socialist Group that, through a decree-law, 200 million euros for 2018 for the implementation of measures of the pact. In February, my partner Meritxell Batet criminalized her because she had not been granted that credit in the decree-laws passed on 29 December. Here I am today, asking you again: why do you still not meet the budgetary commitments to combat gender-based violence? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u70	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u71	Thank you, President. On 27 March, the Government of Spain will present the budgets to the Council of Ministers and we will comply with the commitments of the State Pact. I therefore ask and demand that you support the General Budgets of the State because it will be supporting the State Pact against Gender Violence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u72	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Cuello, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u73	Mrs Montserrat, you are in breach of the pact and the unanimous mandate of this House. We are at the end of March and we do not have a single euro of what we have committed in the pact for this year, and we have been warning you since November that this is going to happen. It is unwarrantedly delaying the deadline for the 200 million increase. How can you tell me today that this money will be included in the next General Budgets that you intend to bring to the House on 3 April and that it will depend on whether or not these 200 million will be approved by the summer to be qualified? Because then, Minister, you will be talking directly to me about blackmail by keeping the victims of gender-based violence as hostages for the approval of your budget. [[Applauds]] And all this time, what do we tell women, that there was no money in January or February or March... and so on until September? I'll give you an example. Only nine autonomous communities have sexual violence service. If that money were already available, it could have been launched in other communities. Speak clearly and say that your administration's times mean that these funds will not be available to communities or municipalities until after the summer. This is a shame, Minister! How long does it take to wait for you and your Government to consider gender-based violence as a matter of extraordinary and urgent need as provided for in article 86 of the Constitution? Her Government was not only incompetent but insensitive to women victims of gender-based violence. You'll say whatever you want, but you've missed your deadlines, you haven't done a single reform and you haven't cleared the funds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u75	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I don't think you've heard me. Next March 27 the Government of Spain will present the General Budgets of the State, and I will tell you more: now the budgets are extended and in the 2017 budget the Government of Spain allocates 266 million euros to the fight against gender violence from all ministries, and the Delegation of the Government of Gender Violence is the time that more money in history has devoted to the fight against gender violence. We are therefore applying the 2017 extended budget lines in the fight against gender-based violence. I will tell you more: in the fight against gender-based violence we are all involved, all the men and women of this country, all the administrations and all the political parties. The fight against gender-based violence cannot be patrimonialized. The fight against gender-based violence is a struggle of women victims and their families, not only of women, not only of the Socialist Party, but of the whole society as a whole and also of the Government of Spain, and in order to eradicate this scourge we must remain firmly united! and not strive to seek differences. Therefore, let us not establish borders or bridges, and this is where the Government of Spain stands, defending this pact of state. It sends three very clear messages: the first for victims of gender-based violence, women and their children, where we send them a clear message that the whole of society is united, that they are not alone, that there is a way out and that we are helping them get out of the fight against gender-based violence. Another very powerful and clear message is for the abusers: they are not welcome, they have no place in our society and, therefore, they have no place and we will all fight against gender-based violence. I will tell you more: Spain is one of the leading countries! in the world in the fight against gender-based violence and we have achieved this together for the past fifteen years, with unanimity, all the governments of the nation, but also of the autonomous communities, municipalities, non-governmental organizations and society as a whole. Let us continue without differences, together, in the fight against gender-based violence and you have the opportunity, in the coming weeks, to vote on the State's general budget to implement this State Pact for Combating Gender-based Violence. Do so also for victims of gender-based violence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u76	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN RUIZ I CARBONELL, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT IMPOSITED TO MARKET THE RESOURCES NEEDED TO GUARANTE UNIVERSAL ACCESSIBILITY? [[File number 180/00589]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u77	Question by Mr Joan Ruiz i Carbonell, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u78	Thank you, President. Minister, I asked you a year ago about accessibility; I asked you to commit to it. He has spent a year doing nothing, so he can tell me why the Government has done nothing to end the barriers faced by people with disabilities in their daily lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u79	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u80	Thank you, President. Your Honor, today I would like to take advantage of the answer to this question to commemorate with you all the world day of Down syndrome, to emphasize that the whole of society as a whole, for many years, has helped to break down visible and invisible barriers to help accessibility to people with Down syndrome. And of course, Mr Ruiz, we must continue to work towards a universally accessible society, which is a task of all, of the Government of Spain, of all the autonomous communities where it governs its party, of all the municipalities, of all the public and private institutions and of the whole society as a whole. We have done a lot, but we have a long way to go together to bring down and achieve real accessibility for all people with disabilities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Ruiz i Carbonell.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u82	We're still doing the same thing. Just like a year ago. He then replied that they were entangled in studying; that they had given us the Roosevelt prize, when what they did was go and pick it up when four days after they arrived at the government they found out that they had given it to us. And he also told me that accessibility is a matter for all administrations, trying to cover up their responsibility. And he didn't say they were gonna do anything, so I can't say they didn't do anything. He didn't say anything, he didn't do anything. I asked him to do something about the 251 days left to arrive on December 4, when by law everything had to be accessible to everyone. We have demanded this from the Commission with numerous initiatives, even with the votes of your group and when, at last, you appeared by the Commission. Finally, the Government's lewdness, which failed to comply with the law on 4 December, without committing itself to anything, without giving any explanation, without apologizing to the world of disability, we have had to submit a proposal for a law in order to try to solve a problem that affects a considerable part of our society, creating a fund that makes it possible for parents to walk with their child with disabilities through the parks; or a blind person, through the sidewalks of our cities. But they neither do nor let them do it; and at the same time they repeat and repeat that, thanks to their management we are emerging from the crisis, they have vetoed this fund with the complicity of Citizens, a fund that claimed that people with disabilities would be freer, eliminating the barriers that prevent them, demonstrating once again that they intend to emerge from the crisis at the expense of the most vulnerable sectors of our society. So, since you do not accept our ideas, do not address me; address the millions of people with disabilities and their families, please. Don't try to blackmail me with state budgets. Apologize for ignoring them and giving them some hope. Don't condemn them to being in the last row, don't just read the chips they've prepared for you. Commit yourselves, tell them that they are also part of our country, that you know you have not fulfilled, but that they will help you. And, I repeat, explain to them how and when they are going to remove the barriers that prevent them from being a little happier. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u84	Thank you, President. One of the first tools for persons with disabilities is job creation. We can say that in this government from 2012 to 2016 it has led to more than 1.2 million people with disabilities being able to sign a contract of employment. It is also, very important, all that the Spanish Government has done in terms of physical accessibility. The Government of Spain has made great progress as follows: we have improved the web accessibility of the General Administration of the State; the Atendo service, of Renfe, which facilitates the accessibility of persons with disabilities, by which we have guaranteed half a million people a year with disabilities access to this service; we are already 80% in compliance with accessibility guidelines at railway stations. To improve accessibility we will also allocate EUR 264 million in the period 2018-2026, through the Ministry of Development, for the adaptation of railway infrastructures and for the renovation and location of devices for people with disabilities in AENA. The newly approved State Housing Plan 2018-2021 envisages important economic aid for accessibility and the promotion of special housing for persons with disabilities. For the first time, we have incorporated deafness into the new sign language regulation. We are now working with the National Strategy on Tartamudez, which affects 800,000 thousand people in Spain. I want to tell you one thing: all this has been done by the Spanish Government, but what have the autonomous communities where the Socialist Party governs done, what have the municipalities done? Because it is not only an implication of the Government of Spain, but it is an implication that all the administrations, of the three levels, and also of all the public and private institutions of this country. We have therefore demonstrated with facts that the Government of Spain is breaking down and removing both barriers in favour of the accessibility of persons with disabilities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u85	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA OF THE SEA GARCIA PUIG, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: DO THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT THE GENERAL'S UNEMPLOYMENT HAS TO CONCERN THE ECONOMIC MODEL? [[File number 180/000560]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u86	She asks now of the deputy, Mrs María del Mar García Puig, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u87	Thank you, President. Does the Government believe that gender inequality has to do with the economic model?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u88	Thank you very much. Madam Minister. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u89	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are working to ensure that all people can develop their life plan in real and effective equality, and with freedom. A country only evolves, progresses and grows when it has all its talent, female talent and male talent, and in this is the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Puig, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u91	The success of the feminist strike caught his Government and the lordships of the Citizens' Group, so much so that their parties had to reformulate the arguments they had written on the march. Well, even if it is late, we welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the Citizens to the common sense of a feminist country. Feminism has never excluded anyone, but to be a feminist one has to make concrete proposals and these proposals have a lot, a lot to do with the economy. Madam Minister, it is time: either to dispatch the issue with a purple link and four superficial proposals or, finally, to recognize and attack an economic model that generates and perpetuates inequalities. Do you know, for example, Minister, that the domestic work and care that we do mostly women are part of our economy? In fact, it is a very important part and, according to the studies, it is 53 per cent of GDP and, however, this work is invisible, it is carried out in situations of total precariousness, it is not recognized in any of the official statistics. Will your Government finally take this work into account, will it dignify them, will it recognize them, and will it make them visible? You put the issue of feminism on the table by saying that you have created jobs for women, talking about women's talent, and that is not it, Minister, it is not about creating women's labour, cheap and flexible; it is about listening to feminism, it is about listening to the economic model it proposes, an economic model that puts people's lives at the centre, a dignified life. [[Applauds]] To the women who defend this, his Government, his party, the Popular Party argumentary of 8 March told us that we wanted to break with Western society. You tell my mother, for example, that she wants to break up with Western society; a woman who, while retired, was unable to strike on March 8 because she had to continue caring. Tell all our elders, people who support with their care work and with their petty pensions what their government is unable to guarantee to Spanish society. These days we have seen how women and pensioners have restored our hope, the hope of a dignified life. Will your Government and your budgets live up to this collective hope? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u92	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we in the Government of Spain are defending a society of shared roles. We have to abandon the societies of divided roles and then of duplicate roles, and we defend and work for the society of shared roles, of co-responsibility, a society that evolves and progresses with all its talent, the feminine and the masculine. Therefore, do not patrimoniate the struggle for equality because it is not yours, it is of all and not only of all women, but of the whole society, of the men and women of this great country, because only together can we achieve real and effective equality. You may consider superficial a tool as powerful as employment, which is a great tool to fight against inequality. I will tell you one thing: Spain ended 2011 with more than 5 million unemployed, an intolerable figure. Spain at that time provided seven out of ten new stops and more than one million women lost their jobs. Do you think this is superficial? For, look, we, the Government of Spain, with the effort of the whole of society has managed to make today 8 700 000 women who have jobs, which is the highest figure in the historical series. This is not superficial, these are real facts and a great tool to fight against inequality. Today we can say that there are more women than ever with an indefinite contract, more women than ever running their own business and we can also say that we have narrowed the pay gap by 4 points. Also, in order to ensure that maternity is not penalized, women, thanks to the Government of the People's Party, receive an additional supplement for each child in their retirement pensions. A People's Party government has implemented an anonymous curriculum to eliminate biases that end up penalizing women. Thanks to programmes we have carried out from the Government of Spain, such as the Advance and Promotion, we have doubled the presence of women in the management councils, breaking those glass ceilings. There is therefore, of course, still a way to go, and we, this Government, are going to present the strategic equality plan to reduce the inequalities that still exist in the field of education, research, sport, employment and in the real life of all women in this country. But as long as you guys talk and don't...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u94	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANNUAL MARCELLO SANTOS, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY-IN COMMUNITY MAY-EN-MARE, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT REASONS HAVE THE TOTAL BUDGET FOR ATTENTION TO THE DEPENDENCE FOR THE YEAR 2017 NOT EXECUTED? [[File number 180/00562]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u95	She asks now of the deputy dona Ana Marcello Santos, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u96	Thank you, President. Minister, why hasn't the entire budget for care for the unit been implemented in 2017?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u98	Thank you, President. Your Honor, from the Government of Spain we have guaranteed, preserved and improved our system of dependence. For this reason, in the 2017 budgets we increased the dependency line by 100 million euros to facilitate and help reduce waiting lists. We have implemented 96.51% of the budget and, therefore, we can say that 954,000 people in Spain received a dependency allowance last 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marcello, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u100	Thank you, President. Minister, we still do not know what are the real causes for which your Government leaves unapplied 44 million of those destined in 2017 to care for people in a situation of dependency; budgets in which they had agreed with the Citizens Party to propose - as you have said - the increase of 100 million euros to care for people in a situation of dependency, of which 44 are left unused in 2017, knowing that more than 300 000 people are on the waiting list, of which 120 000 suffer from a situation of severe dependence. We still don't know what the reasons are. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u101	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u102	Madam Minister, we still do not know what the causes are, what we do know is the consequences of this disastrous policy. We know that 90 dependent people die a day in our country. We know the waiting list is down, yes, but because people die waiting for resources and services. [[Rumors]] We know that professionals who care for people who are dependent on them in their homes, in day centres, in their homes do so under increasingly precarious conditions, Minister. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u103	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u104	And we know that caregivers in the family environment still have no recognition of their rights, such as Social Security. Minister, 85% of care continues to fall on women. And I say to you, Minister: you continue to violate the financial pact between the state and the autonomous communities to care for people in a situation of dependency. I keep telling you, Minister: we know that a state law is still being breached and nothing is going on here. If you had invested the funding earmarked for people in dependency we would be talking about that between 2010 and 2015 more than 635 000 quality jobs could have been created to cater for people in dependency. And it's all right here. [[Applauds]] Minister, your policy causes death and pain. And what we do know is that it is a real shame and a irresponsibility that in 2017 are left unused EUR 44 million with a list of 300 000 people's dependency. The lack of funding for the Unit Act that you are carrying out is a genuine criminal policy that not only attacks people in dependency... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u105	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u106	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Government's commitment to dependency is maximal and I am surprised that it does not know how the Unit Act works, but it is the autonomous communities that must communicate the certifications so that the Government of Spain can implement the agreed minimum level. [[rumors]] It was the will of this government in 2017 to increase 100 million euros to help the autonomous communities to lower waiting lists. And now I'm going to give you data, because we've really done it together - autonomous communities and the government of Spain - and I'm not going to be the one to criticize the management of the autonomous communities. Perhaps you have done so and perhaps you were addressing the governed by your party. It has been this government in this legislature that has increased by 5.26 points the amount that the government pays for aid to the unit. We are going to increase the aid for dependency until 2020 by 16.58% to return the effort we ask the dependents. We have increased these 100 million to reduce waiting lists and have put in place a new advanced teleassistance service for which we have incorporated 30 million euros. We have created new jobs; this year 2017 we have created 21,600 new jobs, doubling the average of 10,600 people per year over the previous five years. We have lowered the waiting list by 40,000 people in 2017 alone, when from 2011 to 2016 we have reduced a total of 42 000 people. We have reduced in 2017, in just one year, what we did in five years, and we have incorporated, in 2017, 90 000 people into the dependency, triple the average of the last five years, which increased by 25 000 people per year. Therefore, our data support that we have done much for dependence, guaranteeing it, preserving it and improving it, together with the autonomous communities, and we will continue to do so with them. I also want to say that we have not only generated employment but, together with the autonomous communities, have prevented no one from being fired at the end of the year for lack of accreditation. We've done a lot and we're going to continue to do it for the dependents of this country... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u107	Thank you very much. - of Mrs. Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, we can in any way form the Minister of Justice: is there any concern in the Government about the delay in the freedom of expression in Spain? [[File number 180/00583]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u108	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, is there any concern in the Government about the decline of freedom of expression in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u110	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u111	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I acknowledge that we have not, because we have not seen any setbacks in freedom of expression. On the contrary, we believe that we have a system of freedoms, a legal system - in the Constitution, in the laws - a system of guarantees, through the independent courts, which ensure that in Spain, which is a great democracy, freedom of expression is very strong and enjoys very good health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vera Ruiz-Herrera, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u113	Mr Catalá, I imagine that, being a man, a white man, a right-wing man and a position of responsibility, I would say that quite well paid, you have few reasons to go out on the street to protest. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u114	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u115	I understand that having your rights guaranteed makes it difficult for you to generate empathy with people who are not in that situation, but, unfortunately, in this country your situation is not that of the majority. In this country there are still 73 evictions on average a day, there are still almost 800,000 young people in economic exile, because you have thrown them... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u116	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u117	..., there are still almost 13 million Spaniards and Spanish people in poverty and there are still almost 4 million people unemployed. You will understand that when you don't have the right to a dignified life, when you don't have the right to live close to your family, to health, to education and to the economy, when you don't get to the end of the month after year because of your fault, there are reasons to think that you may touch to organize, go out on the street and fight against your policies. And when you have very little to lose, few gags there are that can mouth to people. You will also understand that when you call yourself a Democrat, when you love democracy, you believe that opinion and expression is healthy, that humor is healthy, that being able to criticize politicians on social networks or through the arts is healthy. And if you're a Democrat, I don't understand what you're doing by generating laws that currently have 34,000 people sentenced to express themselves. You, under an absolutely crooked concept of citizen security, are doing what you are doing is creating fear in this society of opinion, of doing decent journalism on the street, of recording the police abuses of the Ministry of the Interior, of opinion and of expressing oneself. [[Applauds]] What you are doing is that in this society we are forced to self-censorship ourselves so that we are not put in prison. Do you, Mr Catalá, want to guarantee the safety of citizens? I give you two keys: stop generating misery and understand that the only security people need is to reach the end of the month with dignity. And stop making laws to put people like Valtónyc in prison, who in ten days will unjustly enter prison, and you make laws to put the 900 colleagues you have in your party accused of corruption, which is the real danger to this country. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u118	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u119	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I imagine that you, who are a woman, a white woman, a deputy, with a good salary in Spanish society, have the same ability to generate empathy for the disadvantaged as I, more or less the same. Therefore, congratulations on the reflection. [[Applauds]] Here we are to work for improvement. I, at least, have been working in the public service for more than thirty years, trying to defend the general interest. Your Honor, what is freedom of expression? Is it the freedom to insult? Is it the freedom to threaten? Is it the freedom to coerce? I don't think so, that's a felony. In any case, whoever decides in Spain whether something is a crime or not, it's not you or me. Therefore, we all have the peace of mind that the judges, the independent judiciary, decide when some expressions have been exercised of freedom of expression - we all recognize it and rejoice - and when a crime has been committed. Courts have said that some expressions like 'Miguel Ángel Blanco has a hole in the cogote like dolphins' or 'He deserves to blow up Patxi López's car!' or 'Bauzá should die in a gas chamber' - you have quoted the author of any of them - are a crime. You have a unique conception of what freedom of expression is. Allow me to paraphrase Mr. Rufián: Do you think it normal that a Twitter account of municipal police officers should be entered from a city council? Do you think it is normal for councillors to accuse police officers working for the general interest of xenophobia and aggression? What is freedom of expression, Your Honor? What is freedom of expression to you? The freedom of expression is to threaten, to humiliate, to insult, to provoke hatred? I don't think so. In any case, it is not, I insist, about what I believe, but about what the independent courts decide every day in Spain guaranteeing the freedoms of all. It would be very good if we respected the decisions of independent courts and not only when they favor you but always, ladies and gentlemen, always. There are tweeters who are exculpated from the commission of crimes and there are others who are accused of criminals; not by singers, not by tweeters, but for committing crimes. That's the rule of law, Your Honor. That's where you and I live, that's where we all live. Let's try to improve our rights... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u120	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ISABEL SALUD ARESTE, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES IS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT BEFORE THE MOBILIZATION ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE CORREWORK PLAN IS MADE, BETWEEN OTHER CAUSES, BY THE FINANCING RECORD AND THE DETERMINATION OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL SERVICE? [[File number 180/00576]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u121	He is now asking the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs María Isabel Salud Areste, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u122	Thank you, President. What measures will the Government take in response to the announcement of mobilisations of the post office staff motivated by the cut in funding and the deterioration of the universal postal service?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u123	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, first of all, I would like to clarify that the present and future of Correos is guaranteed, and I am referring both to the viability of the public service provided by the company and to the very viability of the company, which over the years has shown that it knows how to adapt to changes affecting the sector and which have also occurred in a context of economic crisis that has been very complicated for the whole country. In this regard, I have to assess the actions of the Post Office and the work carried out by its workers, which has resulted in an improvement in the rationality and efficiency of the provision of all services. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Areste, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u126	Look, Minister, you have us used to making up figures by building a reality that exists only in your head and also in the head of the government, but that no one believes it; it is not believed by the citizenry or by the postal workers. And you know why? Because Post Offices, that public and universal postal service, is at the limit. You are responsible for the poor provision of the service. The service in rural areas is being abolished, but also in urbanised areas. You are condemning Post Offices to work alone with the traditional letter, which - as we know - is falling for electronic substitution. You, however, are leaving in the hands of private lobbies the most profitable part of the business, linked to online sales and parcelry, preventing Post Offices, public postal service, from entering this sector. You have reduced the financing of the service by 120 million euros in the General Budgets of the State of 2017, placing Correos in deficit levels that have not been given for twenty years. You are therefore also responsible for the loss of 15 000 jobs, which triple the average of job destruction in the public sector. They are responsible for creating precarious jobs, eight-hour contracts a week, temporary contracts - 35% - and part-time contracts - 25%. You are responsible for a staff that hardly becomes a milleurist. In view of this, our group would like to know for when, Minister, this strategic plan for postal services will be viable. This is very simple and logical crushing from our point of view. If the volume of letters has decreased and the volume of packages linked to electronic commerce is growing, it is clear that the activity of Posts should be directed to that sector or the public and universal service that it provides Posts will have no future. Therefore, and finally, we would like to know what concrete measures the Government is going to take and what time frames for implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u127	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I just don't know where you get what you call objective information, frankly. The professional work that Correos is developing has a double aspect: on the one hand, the fulfilment of the obligations established by law in the provision of the universal postal service and, on the other hand, the consolidation of strategic lines that deepen the diversification of the business through innovation and technological and digital transformation. This development is essential, for example, for the strengthening of the enterprise in the area of parcelry. Of course it's important! Of course he's doing Post! Of course he is doing so with the support of SEPI and this government! because we know that there is his future. That future is unstoppable within the framework of competition and is the future proper to the rapid development of these businesses and to online commerce. Therefore, we are completely in that line. I don't know where they get this kind of information and evaluation. It is that you are something like the interpreters of a society that is not governed by your budgets - the figures - nor in terms of the evolution of public staffing. It is that Post Office is stabilizing its staff, and the offer of December 2015 has already involved the incorporation of 1606 fixed workers. Currently, the processes of entry of fixed labour personnel are being managed in December 2016, with an offer of 2345 jobs, and December last year, to cover 1869 jobs. Therefore, this is the reality of a company that has all the present and the future guaranteed.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u129	Thank you very much. - OF JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO INCLUDE THE MEASURES REQUIRED BY CITIZENS TO REFORM THE IRPF LAW? [[File number 180/00591]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u130	He asks now of the deputy Don Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, of the Citizen Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u131	Allow me, Minister, before I ask you the question, to remind some of the Members here that if you are going to use Wednesday morning also to control Citizens, perhaps we will have to reserve a moment to answer us too. [[Applauds]] I'm going quickly to the question. Does the Government intend to include in the General Budgets of the State the reduction of the IRPF required by Citizens?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u132	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u133	Thank you. Your Honor, you're going so fast, Mr. Girauta, that first you have to win the election. This is democracy! Don't worry that we're not exercising control over you, you're exercising control over the government. Do not worry that everything will come to life, if this is a matter of deadlines and of arbitrating and managing the deadlines properly. [[Laughter]] Some groups have a desire that... They really betray their desires. What we did in July to develop the support between Citizens and the Government was precisely to program that in the following General State Budgets, for 2018 - which we did not have the opportunity to apply at the time - we will carry forward the lowering of the income tax on natural persons, which is in its program and in the program of the People's Party, with which we attend the elections. Therefore, what we agreed was, indeed, to develop in these first budgets a decrease in the IRPF, which we are, of course, prepared to consummate. The Government's plan is to bring to this House, in the first days of April, the draft Law on General State Budgets, previously approved by the Council of Ministers. We hope that you will have the full support of Citizens and other political groups, for the least of those who made it possible to approve the expenditure ceiling in July, and that from there we can have the normality in our country and the political and economic stability that the General Budgets of the State ensure. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u135	Let's make a little memory, Minister. The day after the Senate General Budgets were approved, in June 2017, the day after, Don Albert Rivera noted that he would only support the spending limit if Don Mariano Rajoy pledged to lower the IRPF. But what did you say in the meantime, Minister? You literally said: Tax reforms are always done at the end of the legislature and we have to have carrots for negotiation. This is literal. As a result, you answered with a rotundo not - here's your rotundo not - to our proposal to reduce the IRPF. [[shows a press headline]] He's here, in Expansion. However, in July 2017, Mr Rivera secured President Rajoy's commitment to lower that IRPF above $2 billion in exchange for Citizens supporting the spending ceiling, and when Citizens vote in favour of the spending ceiling, my colleague, Toni Roldán, says in the debate: We have called for stability in exchange for a necessary tax reduction for the milleurists in this country. Thus, the negotiations on the general budgets for 2018 close an agreement - always provisional, because it is being negotiated, but it closes - in writing, in September, which contains an ambitious reform of the IRPF. We managed to get rid of them, Minister, the reform of Article 20 of the Law of the IRPF, by which the milleurists who reach 14 000 euros stop paying and even 17 000 reduce... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Every time a spokesman, including Mr Rivera, gets up, he alludes to a headline. I understand that I'm in the government for the good headlines I do, I'm sure. That I said no? I assure you I've never said no. It is that you rely on headlines who are a syncope, said with all respect to headlines, but it is that one does not live as headlines in politics. [[laughs]] The Minister of Finance and Public Service lives in the Official Gazette of the State, not the holders. And the program we went to the general election with was a tax reduction program.... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u138	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO TO COMBAT THE GENERAL'S BENCH IN PENSIONS? [[File number 180/00585]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u139	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good morning. What does the Government intend to do to end the gender gap in pensions?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Work every day to bring down the gender gap in our country by attacking the causes, Your Honor. Firstly, we will address women's participation in the labour market. There are more women working than ever before, but there is still an activity gap of 11% and we need to make it easier for them to continue to participate actively. Secondly, we have to continue to narrow the wage gap in our country, because, although it is in historical minimums, it is still at 14%, and in this we need allies. Wages, as you know very well, are decided by trade unions and employers in collective bargaining and we must provide them with greater transparency and information tools to do their job well. Thirdly, we have taken concrete measures of commitment, such as the maternity supplement, which knows very well that up to 15% of pensions are raised taking account of the demographic contribution in Spain. This has resulted in 360,000 women enjoying this additional increase of up to 15% of their pension since 2016, which has severely reduced the gender gap in recent years. Your Honor, I hope that the Socialist Party will accompany us in this task, which is everyone's responsibility. I hope you're there to help us. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, after the minutes of publicity by the Government of Spain, let us talk about the reality of Spanish women and in this case of pensioners. By the way, you said that the wage gap between men and women is smaller than ever. Do you know what happened to your job reform? That instead of increasing women's wages, men's wages fell. That is, it impoverished the workers of this country, men and women. [[Applauds]] I will give you some information, if you do not know them, on the Ombudsman's annual report, which was made public these days ago. He says that we find ourselves in an unprecedented well of inequality; that it would be a mistake to assume that when you get out of the crisis you yourself reduce inequality, which is your policy; that it makes no sense to pretend that you accept the existence of an economic improvement without greater well-being; that raising pensions could only be unconstitutional by 0.25%; and that one of the three main dangers of the system is to maintain a gender gap of 40%. Minister, in pensions - which was the question - the gap reaches 38%. Do you know what you've done in these years? They have frozen and suspended Mr. Zapatero's law to raise our widows' pension. They've been freezing it for six years. [[Applauds]] Look, 91% of widow's pension recipients are women. Women account for 66 per cent of non-contributory pension recipients. Less than 700 euros account for 72 per cent of women's retirement pensions. Do you know what the only proposal you've made? The only proposal is to extend the calculation of the regulatory basis of the retirement pension to the entire working life, which, as everyone knows, Minister, with the wage gap that is currently between men and women to whom it affects is also women. That is to say, once again, all the measures that you are taking, in addition to generally harming the whole of society, which is most damaging to women. The wage gap has the same causes as that of gender: discrimination, segregation, career breaks and, in general, all the inequalities that women suffer throughout our working lives. It is your duty to put measures on the table, and if they do not, at least accept, approve and promote those which the others propose and put on the table, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u145	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u146	Mrs. Lastra, do you know what goes up the pension gap in Spain? Expulsion of 1,400,000 women from the labour market, such as when the socialists ruled. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's still hurting her? The wage gap in historical peaks, at 18%, when the socialists ruled. And do you also know what helps to bridge that gender gap in pensions? The Socialist Government's 2011 pension freeze. That's what increases the gender gap in pensions. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, data and results of what we have been doing since 2011. The general pension gap has dropped to 36 per cent; look at the data. The gender gap in new pensions has fallen significantly. It was in 2011 at 32.4 points and today it is at 19.4 points. He has dropped 13 points and for the first time he has dropped 20 points in Spain. Your Honor, since the maternity supplement, which is a measure that has put this very positive government in place for women, has dropped at double rates and 7.7 points in just two years, Your Honor. We are working to improve pensions, raising minimums and raising widowhood pensions. Your Honor, you should listen more to some deputies and women of others... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u147	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF MAJOR MAJOR RAFAEL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT RESPONSES THE GOVERNMENT TO THE THOUSANDS OF PENSIONISTS WHO HAVE MOVED THIS WEEK? [[File number 180/000582]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u148	Question, also addressed to the Minister, of the deputy Don Rafael Mayoral Perales of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States PodemosEn Comú PomemEn Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u149	Thank you, President. Minister, what response will the government give to the thousands of pensioners who have mobilized this weekend?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u150	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u151	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u153	Madam Minister, there's no need for the saddlebags for that trip. The truth is, up, up, up a little, that 0.25%. But I think you've said some more things that have been left in the tinker I suppose for the replica. You say that you are going to remove those six freezes from the increase in widows' pensions that the PP government has been perpetrating since 2011. They say - because you never know, as Mr Montoro says, until you get out in the State Official Gazette - that you are going to lower the IRPF to some pensioners. We do not understand very well why, instead of lowering the IRPF, they do not put that which they are going to save on pension increases and strengthen rights instead of continuing to bet on a society where the law of the strongest prevails. Pensioners can hardly be deceived at the moment, because the pensioners in this country are the parents of democracy. Democracy in this country did not bring it either the king or Fraga or Martín Villa, brought it by working people making demonstrations, strikes and conquering spaces of freedom. [[Applauds]] That is why I want to say to the thousands of pensioners who are on the street, but mainly to the rest of the popular sectors, that retirees and pensioners who are being mobilized on the street, because they are defending the rights of all, to defend the purchasing power and to prevent the impoverishment factor that is going to get in the pocket of the pensioners on January 1, 2019. I don't know what will happen to you without Mr. Aznar's orange boys and the PNV. Mr Montoro, you are told that you are from the Government because you are from the Government, and without them you have no budgets and no Government. You are supported by Mr Aznar's party and the PNV, and you are hidden in that pact of shame behind the backs of the social majority of this country. We must tell you that while you conspire to work for the elites, we are going to follow the popular sectors. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u154	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, look, the government listens to, understands and works to improve the lives of pensioners in Spain who today receive a pension, and also that of young people who actually expect to be pensioners tomorrow. This is a matter of state, Your Honor, because our public pension system is our country's largest network of solidarity and cohesion, in intergenerational and territorial terms. Look, the network we have, the public pension system, takes care of assets and liabilities; it takes care of the elderly and young people; it takes care of the people who work in the poorest sectors of the economy and also in solidarity with those who work in the most depressed sectors. It deals with all that, and that is why it is important that we preserve that network of cohesion and solidarity which is our model of pensions. This Government has always acted with responsibility and commitment since minute one. The first thing Mr Rajoy did was not ask for the ransom so as not to have to do what some countries in our environment did, including his friends, Greece, who lowered pensions to 40%. Nor did it freeze them, as the last socialist government did. What he has done is to bring them up every year what we have been able to, sometimes very little, but with that we have also preserved the one who goes up and makes an effort for our elders, who are the best in our society for what they have done working for their entire lives. We have already committed for this year that pensions will be raised again, especially minimum pensions and widow's pensions, because they are the most vulnerable in society and are entitled to a preferential improvement, Your Honor. But look, if there is anything we should not break, it is the pension pact of today and tomorrow, the Toledo Pact, the second largest pact after the constitutional pact, which is the social pact of our democracy of 1995, and we must do it among all, all political groups, and there the Government is also committed to working and strengthening our pension system and also to improving pensions every year as much as we can. There you should also be with responsibility and commitment. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u156	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carlota MERCHÁN MESON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO CONSIDER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION FOR DEVELOPMENT AS A PRIORITY? [[File number 180/00586]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u157	Question now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Carlota Merchán Mesón, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u158	Thank you, President. Minister, you mentioned on four occasions in your inauguration the ministry you were going to lead. In all four it omitted the name of cooperation. He cited the priorities of his mandate and again omitted cooperation. What may seem a forgotten fruit of the emotion of the moment has been confirmed as a clear declaration of intent. You made it clear where you were going to place cooperation in your mandate: in irrelevant. They have squandered the inheritance received from a country recognized for its commitment to building a more just world; a commitment that made Spain occupy a chair on the United Nations Security Council or be a permanent guest at the G-20. His Government had placed development cooperation at the level of 30 years ago, with a cut of up to 90 per cent in humanitarian action. Spain is the fourth economy in the euro area and every week we are hit by the locomotive of Europe. Well, look, in real help, we're the tail car, behind Greece and Portugal. I ask you, when will your Government consider cooperation a priority? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u159	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Merchán, the government has been, is and always will be an advocate of cooperation and will always consider it a priority, and the fact is that in that priority, in that work we want to be accompanied by all Spanish society, which we know has a great interest in cooperation. That is why the main objective of the Secretariat of State for Cooperation from the outset has been to consult with all the social, administrative and political forces in the elaboration of the 5th Master Plan in order to have as consensual a plan as possible. That has perhaps taken longer than expected, but for us the fundamental thing as I say in this priority that we defend to the extreme is to be accompanied by the whole of society. In the coming weeks that plan will be approved by the Council of Ministers, we will move to the implementation phase, and there we will also call on society, political forces, social actors to work all in the same direction and go all in convoy towards the goal of strengthening cooperation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Merchán Mesón, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u162	Mr Dastis, you have been deteriorating the brand of Spain for six years, of which we have been most proud, solidarity. His Government would approve the master plan rejected by experts, NGOs, universities, trade unions, autonomous communities and the opposition as a whole. In six years they have dismantled cooperation economically, in capacities, institutionally and now in politics. They have rejected the will of this House, which unanimously approved to allocate 0.4% of gross national income in 2020 to cooperation. Are you going to defend the cooperation budget with Minister Montoro, as Minister Cospedal will do to buy his tanks? Two weeks ago, the director of the World Food Programme told him without palliatives: nothing is expected from Spain. Development cooperation is not charity, it's not numbers, it's millions of people living in poverty and hunger, and it defines the role a country wants to play in the world. With his management, Spain is neither here nor seems to want to be. And I'm done. Do your best not to criminalize those who save lives in the seas. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u163	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I know that the main criticism of cooperation is the lack of resources, but I remind you that the decline in resources devoted to cooperation did not begin with the current Government. It was the severe economic crisis that caused cooperation budgets to have to be drastically reduced from 0.46 in that year to 0.29 in 2011. As of 2012, the entry into force of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act forced greater restrictions to correct the deficit left by the socialist government. However, the path of growth has been restarted since 2015. The percentage of gross income in 2016 devoted to cooperation is 0.35%. It may be insufficient, but in any case we are already in a trend that I want to consolidate in 2018, naturally within the framework of the General Budgets of the State. In that case, the master plan may have full effect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u165	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u166	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the questions addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 and the situation of the housing for rent. For her defence, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Minister, it is up to me to start by once again denouncing what happened yesterday in the Bureau of Congress, in which your party, the People's Party Government and your partner, Citizens, prevented with their wishes that we could bring to debate to the plenary of this House the proposal for a housing law promoted by the Mortgage Platform, a proposal that had been worked by the affected citizens themselves, which in fact was the one that almost ten years ago began to give voice to a problem that you wanted silenced. [[Rumors]] We have in this legislature the shameful figure of 57 vetoed laws... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u168	One second, Mrs. Martin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please, out of respect for the speaker. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u169	Thank you. The veto has become the umpteenth version of Rajoy's plasma. We used to have red and blue bipartisanship and now at the Congressional Bureau Rajoy is supported by blue and orange bipartisanship. The primitive bipartisanism that prevented the great issues that from the PAH or the 15-M or multitude of citizen platforms we demanded from entering this Parliament is the one that the citizens' ladies and gentlemen now support; a party that I believe will pass into history because it has aged for several years in a few months. Unfortunately, when it comes to blocking debates about housing policies, the thing is not new, it comes from afar, and Citizens now take care of the old resistances of the People's Party. In 2013, with its absolute majority, the PP fell here an ILP that had collected one and a half million signatures throughout the state. Last year in the Community of Madrid he joined in this practice Citizens, when both blocked the debate of an ILP that had collected more than 70,000 signatures and also defended the right to housing, and yesterday vetoed the PAH housing law. Wasn't there a time, gentlemen and ladies of Citizens, when they said you were Social Democrats? When they have been given the opportunity to prove it, they are more like the young people of the PP. But what the People's Party has done about housing since it came to the government in 2011 has been mostly so bad that I'm barely going to have time. Let's talk about the new state housing plan that the minister submitted about ten days ago. First of all, let's talk about your funding, because we could have the best-designed State Housing Plan in history, but if there's no budget, it's no use. This is what happens with the new State Housing Plan. The ministry has said that in the next four years the state public investment for housing policies will be 1443 million euros, about 360 million euros for each year that the plan lasts or, which is the same, an annual 0.03% of GDP. [[The lady]] That said, without anything to compare, these figures may not tell us anything, but fortunately the OECD statistics are clumsy and allow us to see clearly that this government is simply a real scam. The United Kingdom invests 1.81% of its GDP, France 0.83% of its GDP, Germany 0.58%. Let us all make this clear; it is not that in these countries double or triple or five times more is invested in housing, it is that I am telling you to invest twenty, thirty and up to sixty times more than your Government invests in housing. [[Applauds]] That means that we are behind Europe in investing in housing policies, more or less at the level of Malta and Cyprus. That's right, we have BBVA and Santander among the European banks that have won the most this year, banks that of course continue to drain vulnerable families every week. This is not all; it not only happens that the financing of the plan is a misery - we have checked it - but to try to make up the reality on the day of the presentation of the plan his ministry drew a press release saying that the current budget was growing by 62 per cent compared to the previous budget. But here I have the presentation you sent in your day for the previous state plan and I will read it to you, Minister, in case you don't remember it: Investment of the Ministry of Development, 2311 million. Well, if we compare that 2311 million to 1443, we're talking about a 37% cut, minister. It's just that you don't have to be a genius. I tell you because your party was the one that brought to this plenary last week your concern about fake news. Maybe you should make him look at it, it won't be that on your team, minister, he got a fake. Since you came to the government in 2011, you have cut the state budget for housing by more than 70 per cent. And in the meantime, at the same time, we have accumulated more than 600 000 evictions, we have paid one of the most expensive bills of light in Europe, salaries have not recovered from the crisis and rental prices have risen by 30% over the last three years. That's right, for the banks a rescue of 60 billion euros and that they stay with the floors, it's not going to be that with those floors we could make the public housing park that we don't have. [[Applauds]] Knowing all this, because you know it or at least you should know it, you might have the temptation to climb up here and avoid your responsibility by arguing that many times you say - I have heard it - that housing policies are things of the municipalities and of the autonomous communities, and in any case the ministry only has to help. And yes, formally, I will not deny that these competencies are autonomous. But then tell me one thing: Is the Urban Leases Act or is it not state-owned? Is the Civil Prosecution Act, which regulates eviction proceedings, or is it not within the jurisdiction of the State? Is the Mortgage Law, the one that allows anyone to suffer a eviction to continue paying their debt, or is it not a matter of state jurisdiction? Does the law that regulates the Socimi - those investment companies for rent that since 2012, thanks to you!, do not pay tax on companies - whether or not it is state-owned? Is the ability to apply tax relief to the purchase of housing or rent a State competence? Surprise! [[Applauds]] They are laws of State competence and all of them are absolutely fundamental to defining the housing policy of the entire State. That is, they mark decisively what other administrations can finally do, such as the municipalities. Having said that, do you not believe that it is an exercise of cynicism like the glass of a pine tree to say, as you so often say!, that the state has practically nothing to do with housing policy? If they have given up investing money in housing, they may also give up controlling what public policies can be articulated to guarantee a right that we have constitutionally recognized! You, ministers - and in that you have to recognize that you are applied people - continue with the same idea that, except very told and very specific exceptions, has guided the housing policies of this country for so many years. And that is the idea that basically considers housing as an investment and consumer asset, a product that attracts capital and whose main function is to be at the service of the market, to be at the service of a certain economic model, one based on credit and indebtedness, speculation and ball. An economic model based on bubbles, at the service of large investors, banking entities, private promoters and vulture funds. Investors who, as it can not be otherwise - sure you know - seek the maximum benefit in the shortest possible time and with the minimum risk for their operations. You will explain to me how this is compatible with guaranteeing the right to housing. Explain it to me. And one of those consequences, one of the bloodiest consequences of this conception of what housing policies are for or what role housing has to play in the state, is what is happening with the rent in this country. Forty-three per cent of the population who live on rent throughout the State spends more than 40 per cent of their income on paying their flat. A figure that is far above the European average. Do you know what that expense means for a family with the average salaries we have in this country? Do you realize that younger people can't even dream of renting a flat? The situation is very serious in some large cities of the State and in their urban environments, increasingly affected, where families living on rent are forced to leave their cities because their next contract is unpayable. And I'm not talking about families or unemployed people, no, no; I'm talking about people who are working. And with our public park, which is 1% of course, by which you are not going to force banks and vulture funds to rent those empty floors and increase that public park, that makes the situation worse every day. In 2013 you decided to move from the mortgage bubble to the rental bubble, reformed the Urban Leases Act and gave the shot of grace with the Socimi tax reform. When there was no more mortgage credit, when the banks had thousands of unsold flats not only rescued the bank in exchange for nothing, but you and they shortened the rental contracts and weakened the rights of the people living on rent. They put a red carpet on the vulture bottoms that now reach the cities, buy whole blocks - they choose them because they go where the rentals are about to go -, they harass the neighbors who still have longer contracts for them to leave before, and finally they stay with the block to be able to rent all those floors at double or triple price. That is what your reforms have achieved, and I ask you, please, to go and talk to those who govern in Vienna, to those who govern in Berlin, to those who govern even in Paris, to those who carry out the housing policy of these cities. They are nearby European cities that have had a hundred years of public policies in favour of renting some of them; cities in which, in some cases, average rental contracts last eighteen years. Listen even - I no longer speak to you about the tenant unions - to the public housing promoters of those cities, who, when we explain to you the rental laws that we have in this country, take their hands to the head, it is that they cannot believe it; I speak of public housing promoters, not of tenant unions. Fortunately, given their lack of answers, we have again an organized citizenship that requires changes to that Urban Leases Act, and we see it when neighbors and neighbors organize themselves so that they do not throw them off their floors, as has happened in Sant Joan Despí, we see it in the tenant unions that are being formed throughout the State. They all demand the same: that living on rent cease to be an impossible one, that we have longer and more stable contracts, that the prices of rents be regulated so that they cannot rise indiscriminately between contract and contract, that vulture funds such as Blackstone, Norvet, MK Premium, Mediasil cannot continue to camp wide through the cities while the municipalities are the only ones that plant them face. I ended up reading a text of a report that was presented here a couple of days ago, and it says as follows: At this time - i.e. now - in practice there is no state housing policy, there are no annual quantitative targets or follow-up mechanisms for the set of rules included in the 2013-2016 plan - the old state plan -. The government signed agreements in 2014 - it continues - with the autonomous communities to generously subsidize the actions contained in the plan during the period of its validity. Four years have passed and the results are not known. On the contrary, it is worth highlighting the positive initiatives being taken by many municipalities emanating from the municipal elections of 2015, in which it highlights the efforts of such corporations to increase the supply of rental housing, in particular that of a social nature. Do you know what I'm reading to you? I'm reading the Ombudsman's 2017 annual report, exactly the part that deals with the economic crisis and inequality. What I've read to you is page 138. I'm telling you because you might want to go over it or memorize it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u171	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mrs. Martin. Believe me, you have dislocated me, because I came here to be questioned about the Housing Plan, and you have not made a single reference to any line of the content of the Housing Plan. He has not spoken about any of the programmes contained in the Housing Plan. Either it seems to you that they are all right or you are left for the replica - I hope so - the modifications you make to the Housing Plan. But this plan contains many programmes and numerous actions, and you have not mentioned one of them. I guess one of them won't suit you. You are still in time to explain to us which ones you would remove or change. You have made a very tricky debate; you have started by talking about the situation in the different countries and the stake that is made for housing policy, but, of course, you mix countries with completely different competences, because you will agree that the situation is not the same with regard to the housing skills that France has with which it has Spain, and yet you do what you do is to unload, with that tricky debate, the budget of the Government of Spain, which has no housing skills, and compare it with the French budget, which has clearly housing skills. You say that the budget of the Housing Plan has fallen by 35%, it seems to me to understand it; for you take the figures entered in the budgets for the Housing Plan and you will see - and I have to give you the reason - that I was wrong when I said that it had grown by 62%, because by making a breakdown of each of the items in the previous plan one realizes that there are items entered in that plan that were intended to pay some of the expenses of the previous plan, and therefore it is not 62%, but that the exact calculation is 79% growth on the previous plan of what are rental and rehabilitation aid, of course without taking into account the annuality corresponding to the subsidisation of the loans, which obviously no longer form part of the plan. I will try to answer one of the things you said, because I had prepared an intervention in connection with the Housing Plan, but as I see it is not the object of the inquiry, I jump to mention some other things that you have indicated. He begins by talking about the veto on the bill, but you know perfectly well that what the Government did was to carry out a right that it has in the Constitution, and that of course it has in the Rules of Congress of Deputies, and it was limited to establishing what the budgetary impact was, not to enter into value judgments on the content of that emergency housing law. Indeed, the impact is remarkable, because we are talking about EUR 90 billion only if we take into account what has to do with the mobilization of empty housing by introducing it into the rental market and the increase in the public housing park; another EUR 200 million if we meet the so-called social tariff and minimum vital consumption within the emergency law. You talk about the mortgage executions and the launches, and sharing with you that we have to continue to intensify all the actions and all the reforms that will reduce a drama that many Spanish families are still suffering at the moment, you have not mentioned - and look what you have given data - the figures of the General Council of the Judiciary that say that in 2017 they have fallen by 37.8% compared to the previous year, and that this is the lowest number of those registered since 2008 and far from the executions of 2010: we are at 30 000 over 93 000 of that year, including all kinds of buildings. And the INE states that the number of registrations of certificates for mortgage executions registered in the property records in the fourth quarter of 2017, which is the last data, was 12,369, which also means a significant decrease of around 37%. Of this total of foreclosures less than one in five correspond to habitual housing of natural persons, representing 2103 foreclosures, with a decrease of 55% compared to 2016; that is to say, very positive results are being produced as a result of legal changes, which I will also not extend in describing. Entering into the content will be able to share some of the issues that come into the law and it can be understood that many of them reproduce, duplicate or become much more assimilated to state norms that are already in force, and that they would therefore be unnecessary; that others contain disproportionate measures in relation to the purposes they pursue and that they are much slower in their application than some of those that are in force, and that effectiveness can therefore be understood as dubious; that some may be declared unconstitutional, and of course if an approach to a housing law is intended to be partially and clearly inadequate in what it has to be a housing law, although it is true that it has not been raised as such. And many of these initiatives relate directly to the programmes we have established in the new State Housing Plan. You stress that what we have to look at is in Berlin, in Paris, in Vienna and I do not know what other places you have mentioned and that we have to enter - it is your ideology - to break the free market and to limit prices. That is the proposal that has come out of your party and that you have sent us through some of the municipalities in which you govern. I would like to remind you that, first of all, the markets you mention are completely different from Spanish. France and Germany - which you have commented on - have, of course, a higher level of housing, that is true, but there are also aspects related to the culture that makes them go and have historically gone much further towards renting. By the way, you say, in relation to the rent, that the data has gone down. It's not the data we handle, it's the opposite. We are improving tenancy under rental, we have already exceeded by 2 points the data we had in 2011 - that is what Eurostat says - from 20.3 to 22.2, this is a trend that contrasts precisely with some of the countries you mention, and it is true that there has been an increase in prices. On the other hand, within the programme we favour the possibility of access to this market also from the most disadvantaged groups and, therefore, among other issues, we have raised the rank to 900 euros, following some of the requests made at the Sectoral Conference on Housing. Even so, the price remains significantly lower than in 2007, 16.6 per cent higher than in the previous year. On the other hand, you mentioned Paris. In Paris right now the average rental price is 29 euros per square meter. Given that Barcelona is around 15 and Madrid is around 13 capital, you are implicitly proposing to take measures that can lead to double the rental price in these cities. I compare what is actually happening in this market and what has been shown is that introducing greater interventionism into the regulatory framework weakens rental activity, creates greater uncertainty in the sector and leads to a lower supply of rental housing. You do not believe that these decisions that have been taken in France and Germany have not been criticized, they have been widely criticized. By giving him some information, in France from the Executive itself, not from an association of promoters, he has recently doubted the usefulness of the measure. And, in case it was little, the courts have suspended its application in Paris. In other cities too, but in Paris the application of the law that you intend to implement has recently been suspended by the courts, while the conditions of rent have hardened for thousands of young people. In Berlin it has not ended differently, you mention it. To this day, between 66 and 95% of rental apartment offers are above the maximum set by law, a law known as rent brake. By the way, it is also awaiting the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court. I don't say it, experts say it. A price limitation in the form you propose would mean a 25% contraction in the market and a 12% increase in prices. [[The Lord]] Therefore, we only have the resources to implement the policies that you apply because, indeed - you have acknowledged it - it is the autonomous communities and the municipalities that have the powers. Of course, they have the competence to develop these housing policies and have them to increase the social housing stock and that is why we are favouring it. We allow for the first time single-family housing; that houses be rehabilitated within the envelope of a building; we favour the construction of new social housing, even with up to 36 000 euros to the private promoter, in order to increase the park and to obtain greater access and regulation of prices; aids for rehabilitation, which in some cases reach 75% in terms of accessibility, energy efficiency. Finally, a battery - you have not mentioned any - of very important measures that try to avoid, for example, what you are doing in Barcelona. Since you are from Catalonia, I do not know if you are from Barcelona in particular, there you have eighty-two empty municipal buildings in which you could build 5000 houses; you have been ruling for three years and have built 451. See the data, check it out. If they can make 5000 and have built 451, it is good to blame the minister. When the Mayor of Barcelona spoke of evictions and housing policy, she blamed - I remember perfectly - the Mayor; now, who is mayor, she throws it to the Minister. Anyway, that's life and that's what he's doing. That is why the number of Barcelonans who continue to ask for housing does not stop growing, I insist, does not stop growing. It is currently in 66,000 barcelonas of 34,000 family units, and you have delivered 451 floors. I could tell you - I don't have time, I'm done - what they're doing in other cities where they also rule. If I have time in the replica - unless you want to talk about the Housing Plan - I will try to provide a little more information. Of course, we have the capacity to regulate the basic law, and that is what has allowed, among other things, reductions in mortgages, as is noted not by the Government but by the General Council of the Judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mrs Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u173	The truth is, it costs, it costs to listen to him and it costs to believe what he's saying. I'm gonna try to be ordered. At least today you have acknowledged that what you say is an increase in the budget of the plan, it only occurs in some specific items and there is the grace: that you compare the entire budget of the last plan with some specific items. If total budget is compared with total budget, there is an obvious cut. Stop lying because it is. Now, if you want to use a portion of the previous budget and compare it to the entire current budget, I can tell you that it has increased... what I want to catch. Do you understand me? Stop messing with us. [[The lady]] He came out here to say what I had said he would say, that you have no competence. But have you heard the list of laws that are state-owned? Do you realize what it says here? You think we don't know what we're talking about? [[Applauds]] The Urban Leases Act, the Mortgage Act, taxation... And you have the bar to say that you don't paint anything in housing policies? Change the argument. He tells me I'm not talking to him about the state plan, and I'm going to say a positive thing, so he doesn't say it. They've done a rental aid program. All right, it's about time, important. The problem is that, if there is no change in rental legislation that limits prices between contract and contract to rise indiscriminately, such aid is going to generate higher prices because it is going to impact on rental prices. Do you understand? We need something that limits those increases between contract and contract and that something is a reform of the Urban Leases Act. More about the state plan. They have a program to help people who have been released. Do you know when? Since the plan comes into effect, that is, we do not take into account 700,000 people who have suffered a eviction, no, we are going to start helping people who have been evicted from a week ago. Don't fool us. Another thing they do in their plan. The issue of banks and financial institutions. Does your plan require that the floors that are in the hands of financial institutions be rented out? No, they don't force anything. Please ask the Sareb that if you want to put the floors for rent, that they choose which floors they want to put on and that they do not worry that we, with our money, with our taxes, will pay you all the rent. And that's after I gave them the 60 billion euros of the ransom. Are you kidding us? [[Applauds]] Public park. You don't believe in the public park. You want private developers to make rental flats and I tell you that if those homes don't stay in the public park, that if with those homes you do what has been done with the official protective housing for so many years in this country, that for a period of time it was actually protected housing, but then it would go back to the free market, we're going to stay the same as we are now. We're at 1% of the public park. In the countries around us, we talk about 20%, 25% and 30%, and you insist on not strengthening that public park. I'll explain what a public rental park is for, not a rental park, but a public rental park. A public rental park allows you to respond to the emergency. All that we have not been able to do all these years and that has taken so many families ahead would have been more attenuated if we had had a public park comparable to the rest of Europe. A public park serves to meet the demand of a lot of people who cannot access or have no purchasing capacity to reach the private market, but also the public park serves to drag down the prices of the private market. But you continue in this plan without encouraging the public park. More of the plan. There was a funding line so that autonomous communities and municipalities could buy already built housing or get already built housing assignments. It is that housing that vulture funds are reaching and that, if local governments had resources, they could retain and prevent vulture funds from operating. You've removed that line of funding that was in the draft plan and you're just going to give money for new housing. New construction and new construction, no attempt to plant against the vulture bottoms. That's the content of your plan. I wanted you to talk to him about the content, because there's the content. [[Applauds]] In addition, he said that in countries where there are laws that control rental prices or that have more public rental park is a matter of DNA... of culture. That's what they've said for so many years! So many years! No, Minister, that is a matter of legislation. The people here aren't that we have the property in the DNA. Stop saying that absurd speech! [[Applauds]] That has to do with the laws that for years have benefited and encouraged people to access a home through the property. It has to do with the legislation. Point. There's no more. Stop saying "tun-tun-tun." He's said a lot more. All those cities you mention say there's no problem in the sense that if the rent price is regulated the offer disappears, that if they didn't have those laws would be much worse..., and I'm telling you about cities that have a public park that is incomparable with ours. Stop saying things that aren't true because we're prepared people, we know what we're talking about, and we can't try to pin these lies on us. That's enough! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u174	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Martin, I don't think you've said anything stupid. I may agree with what you have said or I may disagree, I suppose you will have your reasons for saying so, but in any case, they seem respectable to me. Let me get into some of the issues you raise. You go back to the subject of the budget and you say: There are only a few small things in the budget that you mention. No, it's 100%. Your Honor, they are 100%, because the subsidy is not from the previous plan, but from the socialist plan and we are obliged to incorporate that annuality, but the program that is put at the service of the autonomous communities and the municipalities is the rent and rehabilitation, 100% of the more than 1440 million that I have mentioned. That is the money they will be able to dispose of, not that of the subsidization that is articulated through the autonomous communities, but that will directly pay the corresponding annuality. We're not kidding him, we're telling the truth about that growth. He says that in our country the historical tradition has been to rent and that there has been a tradition of acquiring housing in relation to other European countries is an invention of the minister. I believe that all of us here share that in Spain there has been this tradition of purchase versus rent in relation to other European countries and I suppose it will not be as a result of what the People's Party government has done, right? On the contrary, our rental programme is intended precisely to promote rental and rehabilitation and also the purchase of housing in order to put it on the rental market. He spoke about the specific programme for people in eviction situations. I thank you for saying that this plan incorporates a specific programme and I hope that it will help to improve the situation, even though you are throwing back data that have nothing to do with reality. It is data - I insist - that show a clear decline as a result of policies in legal amendments and reforms - which I cannot quote here because I cannot extend too much - that they are bearing fruit, even if you say otherwise. He says they come into force at the time the plan comes into force. I'd miss more! They have to come into force when the plan comes into force, of course; there is no other option, even if all the programmes to enable 2018 are retroactive. He also talked about the public park. Your Honor, do you think that the Government of Spain is dedicated to building public park houses in the autonomous communities, which have the powers? That is a responsibility for the autonomous communities and the municipalities. I've given you a demolishing data on what you're doing in Barcelona, demolishing. In eighty-two solar plants that have voids, 5000 houses can be built and have delivered 451. The data is terrifying and you've come up here and you haven't told me not to. I've made it very easy for you to correct me if it wasn't true, but the truth is that you're not running those 8,000 homes you promised in Barcelona. And I'm talking about Barcelona as I can talk about other municipalities. On the other hand, he says we don't force banks, but this is a housing plan. It is not a decree-law nor a law, but a housing plan, aid to help favour this public park. What I cannot admit is that I say that there are no measures because there are so many measures to promote this public park. And of course we are in favour of the public park; another thing is that the situation deserves that these private promoters too can put the housing at the service of the people who need it most, who have fewer resources. And, of course, municipalities and autonomous communities can manage floors of financial institutions and private owners. At the moment, the City Council of Madrid, to quote you one, is not managing any housing of banks or real estate agencies. After a year and a half of signing with the Sareb, only thirty have been awarded. Similar parties promised to give up land for housing construction and have only set in motion the transfer of two plots. Two plots after three years of government. And in rehabilitation, the numbers are even worse. 16% of the grants have been implemented. It has therefore not again entered the content of the plan to say whether any of these measures were not sufficient. It has been limited to stating that we need to make other legal changes. We will be able to work on this in the future, because I am sure that we can understand whether we agree to put in place initiatives in the regulatory framework and in the legal framework that will contribute to further generating a greater supply and with this a regulation of rental prices in those places, as is the case in Barcelona, where they are growing in an important way, but until then I am sure - convinced - that, despite what you have criticized the plan, they will sign the agreement with the Government of Spain to get the most out of it in those places where they govern. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u176	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote, as a result of the current provisions of the electoral law and its difficult application by the consular service. [[Lord XUCLA]] [[File number 172/000110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u177	We continue with the urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, on the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote because of the current forecasts of the Electoral Law and its poor application by the consular service. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 January 2011, a reform of the Electoral Law came into force which envisaged different extremes, including the reform of the CERA vote of Spanish residents abroad, returning to a petitioned voting system, defining a new urn system in consulates and also defining an internal mail system within third countries to deposit this vote by mail in consulates' ballots. Thus, with the 2011 reform, foreign service and, in particular, consular service played a crucial role in facilitating a fundamental right to citizenship, such as the right to vote. Go ahead - it is better that I say this in my first speech and not that perhaps the minister will remind me in his - than at the time the Catalan Parliamentary Group, together with the People's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Basque Parliamentary Group and the BNG, voted in favour of that partial reform of the Electoral Law. [[Convergence and Union]] [[EAJ-PNV]] But it is good to recognize the mistakes and in 2012 the first elections were held in which it was found that this system did not work. That year also three commissioners of the Galician Parliament presented in this rostrum a proposal for a law reforming the Electoral Law to return to a system that would facilitate the voting of Spanish citizens residing abroad. Since 2012, we have been calling, with various initiatives in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this plenary, for the urgent amendment of the Electoral Law to improve the system. I say in passing and in parentheses that the system prior to 2011 also had some shortcomings that led us to that reform. Censuses of Spanish citizens abroad were not updated. It had been believed that people who were no longer alive were still voting because they were voting for third persons, children or relatives on their behalf. A partial reform was introduced to incorporate the DNI into the vote to ensure that the people who voted still had the DNI, but while the DNI was not expired it could still be voted. I also tell you this to explain the reason for that 2011 reform. In any case, few elections had to be held to see that the current system of voting by request was a system that did not work. The Minister, if he answers my question rather than the Member José Ramón García Hernández, perhaps he will be able to give me an answer to the approach which I am formulating to him and which I am not exclusively formulating to him. In the 2016 annual report of the Ombudsman transferred to this House, the Ombudsman, Soledad Becerril, who finished her term in July last year, literally said: Identical problems to those already detected previously, and reflected by this institution in previous published annual reports, affect the electoral scheme in our country and the inadequacy that the current legislation offers for the effective exercise of the right to vote by all citizens and, in particular, by residents abroad. These shortcomings and problems had already been detected, for example, in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia in 2015 and also in 2017. A system with a lot of bureaucracy was clearly detected; late or very late sending of electoral documents; late sending of ballot papers; poor and unapproved mailing protocols by all consulates; mail-outs that were lost, since mail systems from third countries were involved; and even - I will detail later - strikes in consulates during voting days, unregulated strikes in the field of foreign service, consular service, and which obviously affected a fundamental right such as the right to vote. Thus, since the reform of 2011 it is clear that the weak link of the new design is precisely the insufficient capacity of some public servants - some public servants - of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to undertake these new functions in time and form, the functions conferred on it by the reformed electoral law of 2011. Bad faith, indolence, we will see many different cases and each case is a world but each world is a fundamental right of which citizens have been deprived. The Ombudsman's report last year made a recommendation to the Government; a recommendation that the Government accepted but only formally accepted because there has been no real improvement. I was talking to them about specific cases. The Democratic Party, in the light of these shortcomings in recent years, has opened, through the channels and social networks, a channel of communication with citizens who have transferred their specific cases to us. Obviously, these are citizens who wanted to exercise their right to vote and no one asked them what they wanted to vote. We are not talking about a partisan position; we are talking about an institutional position in favour of promoting the right to vote. Mr Oriol Grinnan, who has been living in Sweden for three years, wrote to us saying that he applied for the vote on 21 November last year and that on 11 December he received a communication that he was out of date. Joan Aranda Gelabert writes to us from Riad to say that he did not get the ballots, although he asked them in time and form correctly; that in Riad, in the last elections of December, there was not a vote, and that in Saudi Arabia there had been dozens of requests. We also receive a letter from Núria Carné from Germany, informing us that the ballots for the vote arrived on 21 December, the day of the elections, which had to vote in the ballot box in Frankfurt, 160 kilometres away, or the vote by mail. From his residence, he writes and tells us: this is impossible, indignant; thank you for your purpose. Guillem, from Shanghai, also writes to us to explain that many citizens were in the same situation, that he had sent letters addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, to the sub-direction of Electoral Processes and also to the Central Electoral Board, and sends us a copy of them. Unfortunately, the inventory in recent years is even more unfortunate and requires a correction, a rectification; a certainly legislative rectification - of this we will have the opportunity to talk, perhaps in the second round, Minister - with the existing instruments on the part of the foreign service and, in particular, the consular service. Inventory of December 21st: Mexico has not received any documentation to exercise the right to vote. The documentation has not arrived in Ecuador. In Saudi Arabia the same thing. In Sidney, the consulate's staff have called a strike on the same days when the vote has to be filed by mail and, as a result, residents have not been able to exercise their right to vote. In Milan, the consulate argues that the documentation has not arrived because the mailboxes are blocked. In Germany there are cases where, by not finding anyone at home - this is a matter of the country's postal service - envelopes have been returned without leaving any notice or collection space in the office. The same in Switzerland. In Brazil, the ballots arrived and the citizens of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo could exercise their right to vote, but no ballots came to exercise that fundamental right in the capital, Brasilia. And a very striking case is that of the citizen who on November 19 asked to exercise his right to vote in Washington and the ballots arrived at his home on January 5, 2018. We have other testimonies, we have other cases, we have a representative of the Casal Català in Mexico, Montse Galí: we are organizing the people of Mexico every afternoon; the urn has been closed in the consulate without any ballot because the ballots have not been received. We are over 600 people and no one has received the ballot to vote. Minister, I have less than a minute left. I have gone to the specific cases, but each particular case is a person who wanted to exercise the fundamental and basic right to vote and was unable to do so. This is a reform of 2011. I am aware that at this time, in this Parliament, in this Congress, there is a subcommittee for the reform of the Electoral Law and I hope and hope that this will be a minimum point of consensus on the need to reform this reality. Meanwhile, what consular service has to do is to fulfill its functions, to do everything that it has not done so far and to recognize the mistakes that I have made to it, as well as so many others that have been occurring since the 2012 elections and that have affected hundreds of thousands of citizens in all these years. I am waiting to be able to continue the debate in the second round. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u180	President, thank you very much. Mr. Xuclà, thank you for your inquiry. Let me begin by nurturing your statements, because I think they are imprecise and unfair. You speak of the poor application by the consular service of the Electoral Law, and the truth is that I have to deny you the greatest. Our consular service works tirelessly and effectively to give the best service to our citizens abroad 24 hours a day seven days a week, and often does so under difficult and even extreme conditions in some parts of the world. For this reason, consular staff deserve our full appreciation and thanks. I also remind you that we are talking about one of the largest consular networks in the European Union: 181 consular offices and almost 500 consulates and honorary vice-consulates in 131 countries. Everything is certainly better, and reasonable and reasoned criticisms are welcome, but let me not accept that the professionalism and dedication of our consular service be called into question, in a sort of general cause. Having said that, if there are specific failures or errors, you have no doubt that we will do our utmost to correct them. Once this has been done, I must also say that I share the concern that the current figure of the vote from the outside raises in the Spanish voters who reside outside Spain. In fact, the councils of Spanish residents abroad and many Spaniards living abroad have given us their concern in a reasonable way about the difficulties they face in exercising their right to vote from abroad. It is therefore reasonable to identify the causes and to put in place the means to eliminate these difficulties. I think we all agree on that. With regard to the causes of the problem, his lordship referred to the current provisions of the Electoral Law and, in part, attributed to them what he called limitations on the fundamental exercise of citizens' right to vote abroad. In this regard, I do not think it is necessary to recall once again, as you all know, that the current wording of Article 75 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime dates from a parliamentary initiative of the year 2010 which then garnered almost unanimity in the parliamentary arch. The aim was then to ensure the legality of the entire voting process abroad and, in particular, to ensure maximum legal certainty. This is a commendable objective, no doubt, but with the experience accumulated by successive electoral processes it is possible to collate that, in practice, the procedure has proved to be complex and, to a certain extent, dissuasive. In fact - it is fair to admit - there has been a fall in electoral participation abroad since that change. The main reason for this phenomenon is that the processing of the so-called petitioned vote, as envisaged by the Electoral Law after its reform, takes a considerable amount of time. This time has a difficult fit in the fifty-four days that the electoral process lasts from the date of the call for elections to the day of the holding of the elections. This is coupled with the enormous dependence of the process of the operation of foreign postal services. I know that some believe that the Spanish State is almost omnipotent and omnipresent in its rights-limiting pursuit, but, believe me, even if it were, it would not have the capacity to influence the postal service of 191 countries. These are postal services of a very varied nature and quality, which obviously cannot be directed or monitored. I believe that this circumstance should also be considered when considering a possible modification of the voting model from abroad. In any case, I assure you that our will and obligation is to guarantee the exercise of the rights of all Spanish citizens within the law. This is what we are doing: applying the current Electoral Law until there is another. You have mentioned certain cases of complaints from some citizens of whom I am also aware, but I would like to specify some of them, for example, the strike at the Consulate General of Spain in Sidney. True, there was a strike while there was a process of voting in Catalan elections, but it is also true that the consulate, as it is its obligation, organized minimum services that allowed the vote to be carried out with total normality. As for the Consulate General of Spain in Milan and the claim that it was not possible to vote because the mailboxes were full, we have made an investigation and it is not known that any member of the consulate made that statement, which, moreover, would have been unfounded given that our Consulate in Milan has no jurisdiction over postal mailings of electoral documentation. Because the fact is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation does not intervene in any way in the sending of electoral documents from Spain abroad or in those which take place within the territory of other States, nor in the transmission of so-called ERTA votes, temporary voters abroad. The problems in the reception of these votes are inherent in the very functioning of the postal services of these countries, a situation already described and identified for a long time that the legislator - I repeat - must evaluate and on which this MAEC has no competence or possibility of control. By the way, I would also like to recall two things that your lordship certainly knows. The first is that, according to established practice, electoral reforms are not initiatives of the Government but of other parliamentary groups. And the second, which you yourself recalled, is that your group supported the reform of the electoral procedure; moreover, you yourself were rapporteur of the bill and naturally voted in favour of the reform. It is clear that the reform that you praised at the time is the same one that would now be limiting the exercise of the right to vote to Spanish citizens residing abroad. Your Honor, as people, we all have the right to change our minds, I would miss more!, but the government, I reiterate, has an obligation to comply with the law. What I do assure you is that, within the scope of the current electoral legislation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation is making a considerable effort to ensure that all citizens who wish to exercise their right to vote, as set out in article 23 of the Constitution, are able to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, I have already referred in my first speech to the vote and the result, to which it is wise to rectify and to our position in 2012, with which we will see how this situation is legislated and improved. You make a general cause. Minister, in the exercise of the fundamental right to vote there is no need to do any general cause. A single citizen who wants to exercise the fundamental right to vote and cannot do so because the foreign service, consular service, does not facilitate him - on the contrary, it prevents him in material terms - the exercise of this vote, is sufficient cause - it is not general cause - to denounce this serious limitation in this House. This is the weak link of the system. It is true that there is a part that does not depend on your ministry as are the postal services of each country; we must also take note of this weak link. But you deny me the older one and I confirm you the older one. In the foreign service there are some people who are the consuls and those who are in the service of the consulates, who have taken out oppositions that have enabled them to read, interpret and enforce laws. And you have recognized me as flaws, you have recognized me one thing and the opposite at the same time, very diplomatically or very much in your parliamentary style, the mere fact that you recognize me that there are cases in which the law cannot be applied by officials, by public servants who in their early years, in 2012, 2013, 2014, surely had a point of indolence and practical inability to know the law and, together with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to articulate the mechanisms to make this right to vote effective. Good. We have tabled a very large number of parliamentary questions concerning all the cases I have referred to you and others. Let's see what were the minimum services that were dictated in the consulate of Sidney and let's also see the cases of Milan and Rome. Rome did have competence, but it is that the history of the Consulate of Rome brings them to them. To go to the more general reflection on the possible reform of the Electoral Law, in the general elections of June 2016, the participation of the vote CERA was 6.3% of the residents, which means, on the other hand, 93.7% of abstention. I believe that it is urgent to introduce the reform of this law to facilitate voting, the fundamental right of residents abroad. Mr Vera, a specialist in electoral law, and Mr Posada, who has also been kind enough to remain in this debate and with whom we have spoken about this reform, I think it would be very interesting to return to the 2011 reflections on who represents these citizens. In this regard, in 2011, Mr Benegas, the late Member of Parliament, made a very interesting proposal, because it is true that there are third- and fourth-generation citizens who have not lived in the province or in the municipality and whose vote is still attributed to this province and to this municipality. Who represents these citizens? There were some interesting ideas that did not like in a first reading the community of Spanish residents abroad. I think it is urgent that this reform should take place, I think it is urgent that we reflect on who represents these citizens and how they are transported, in which chambers. In other countries, in Italy, France, Romania, there are deputies and senators elected in external constituencies representing the interests of these citizens. Is this possible without constitutional reform? According to Mr Benegas, this was an interesting proposal. I have wanted to slip this question to this second stage because I believe that people like Mr Legarda and others, who are in the Electoral Law Reform Commission, will have to put it to you. And as at the time - it is true, Minister - I was rapporteur on this law and voted in favour, I think it is very important now that, as is said in a colloquial way, we give it two laps - but not four - so that soon an electoral reform is activated and, why not, so that there is no other electoral process in which a single citizen cannot exercise his fundamental right by indolence or by inability of consular service. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. In the reply Mr Xuclà has spoken about what I have said to him from the outset: the difficulties posed by the voting regime demanded abroad must be resolved in this House by the parliamentary groups. But really, Mr Xuclà, what I still do not accept is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made voting difficult by acting on the part of its consuls. On the contrary, very concrete steps have been taken to ensure that this right can be exercised. The presence of all consuls in charge of the consular sections during the electoral process has been ensured, in particular, during the days on which the complaints are processed, during the five days on which the ballots remain open abroad, as well as during the three days following the election day to ensure the transmission of votes. In cases where there has been a strike that coincides with the electoral process, I have already told you that minimum services have been set up so that the right to vote in favour of the Spanish electorate will not be altered or diminished in any way. Electoral teams have been formed in embassies and consulates to ensure compliance with electoral regulations and instructions in this area. A particular effort has been made with an information campaign on the ministry's website and the embassies and consulates, including infographics and answers to frequently asked questions. All this activity is accompanied by direct consultation evacuation work. Electoral regulations, of course, do not allow public administrations to promote voting, so we must disregard what is information about what is an activity to promote participation itself. The download of voting request forms has been made possible on the websites of the consular offices. On voting days in a ballot box, consular offices remain open on extended hours, including holidays, of course, and making it easier for Spanish citizens to vote. The consular offices have been given the opportunity to use extraordinary diplomatic suitcases or urgent couriers and franchise agreements have been signed with postal services in those countries where more Spanish citizens reside in order to ensure the free vote. Your Honor, all of these actions constitute an unprecedented effort by our Ministry in the electoral field, framed in the defence of the interests of the Spaniards abroad, as an essential and priority task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. I can assure you that the ministry and the embassies and consulates are doing everything the current electoral regulations allow to ensure that all Spaniards who wish to vote from abroad can do so and I assure you of my strongest commitment to continue to do so. Furthermore, as I have already said, the key to a lasting solution to the problem lies in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION ON THE ROLE OF SPAIN IN THE RESOLUTION OF THE MULTIPLE CRISIS CONCERNING VENEZUELA. [[File number 172/000114]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u186	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation on the role of Spain in resolving the multiple crises affecting Venezuela. For your defense, Mr. Maura Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u187	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I have often said in this Parliament that Spain lacks foreign policy and is not strange, as the lack of national political ambition is also projected on the international scene. Therefore, what we have is external action: we have embassies, consulates and a ministry that are but do not act with any kind of strategy or political objectives. We are only reactive, we are driven by other countries or dragged by events, never drivers, never leaders. This question refers to a matter in which you have assumed quite the opposite, of leadership, of being up to the occasion. I will begin by acknowledging that, even in reaction, you have done something and I am referring, of course, to the case of Venezuela. The situation of multiple crises in Venezuela, both in economic and social terms and in political and institutional terms, has already led to some debate in this House. However, the situation in the country with which we share so many historical, cultural, social and economic ties continues to deteriorate. Despite all those ties that unite us with the Spaniards and the Venezuelans, Spain has not been able to live up to the circumstances, it has not been able to lead the international condemnation of the regime of Nicolás Maduro for its grave and systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, as often happens in foreign policy, when there is a vacuum of presence there is always someone willing to fill it, and it is a shame that Spain has been reluctant to occupy that space in the defense of rights and freedoms at the international level. But others have decided to do so, for example, in September last year the Prime Minister of Canada, Liberal Justin Trudeau, was the first to sanction directly high-ranking officials of the Government of Nicolás Maduro. These sanctions were Canada's response to the crackdown on peaceful protests that took place between April and August 2017 as well as the violation of the Venezuelan constitutional order to empty power from a national assembly with an overwhelming majority of the opposition. Thus, Canada imposed sanctions on important collaborators of Nicolás Maduro who consisted of the freezing of assets and a number of other economic restrictions. Minister, in the words of your Canadian counterpart, Chrystia Freeland, these sanctions - I quote - are a measure consistent with Canadian principles and values and a sign of support for international efforts to restore democracy in Venezuela. Aren't these Canadian principles and values similar to the Spanish, Minister? Why, then, has the Government of Spain been so slow to take an active and leading role in this matter? The situation in Venezuela continues to deteriorate, with a Government increasingly besieged by corruption and besieged through its systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In November last year, after regional elections plagued by irregularities, as international observers claimed, Canada continued to honour that leadership role and increased sanctions to nineteen high-ranking officials of the Bolivarian Government, including Nicolás Maduro himself and his vice-president, Tareck El Aissami, for these human rights violations of acts of corruption. On this occasion, Liberal Minister Freeland stated that the extension of sanctions is a demonstration that Canada is determined to protect human rights and combat corruption in the world. Is not the Government of Spain determined to protect those same human rights? We understand that you are not so ambitious in combating corruption, Minister, when it is so hard for you to fight it in your party, which is the one that supports the government you are in. But also systematic human rights violations, Minister? Also in November, the European Union finally took action against the regime of Nicolás Maduro. However, far from imposing particular sanctions against the high officials of the Bolivarian regime, the Council of the European Union only agreed to impose an embargo on material that could be used in the repression of internal protests. A measure that could be remarkable but far away, minister, from the ambition that such a critical situation required. Didn't the Spanish Government urge our European partners to adopt sanctions? Did you settle, Minister, for such a decaffeinated measure? That's all right, Minister. Spain cannot continue to play a secondary role in such a serious crisis in a country so close to Spanish society. The Bolivarian regime has continued its challenge to the rule of law by convening presidential elections through a constituent assembly that lacks legitimacy and is also not recognized by the international community. Moreover, in view of these illegitimate elections, the Bolivarian regime has reinforced its persecution of the opposition with the benevolence of an international mediation of dubious neutrality, a mediation, Minister, which you certainly continue to support. Only in the face of such a serious deterioration of democratic principles and fundamental rights and freedoms, the European governments decided to agree on a series of sanctions for seven senior officials of the Bolivarian regime. From Citizens we welcome this adoption of sanctions because the ALDE Group, in which we are in the European Parliament, has been calling for the application of individual sanctions to senior officials of the Bolivarian regime since 2014. We welcome the fact that you, Minister, have finally heard the liberal and progressive voices calling for a ferocious defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. A clear demonstration that this is the way forward is that the government of Nicolás Maduro, as a reprisal against these sanctions, decided to expel the Spanish ambassador to Caracas. Even so, in Citizens, Minister, we wonder why you expelled Caracas from the Spanish ambassador when the government of which you are a member has been so shy when it comes to acting against the regime of Nicolás Maduro. In fact, it is a pity that the Government did not call for consultations with the Venezuelan ambassador to Spain. Already in November Citizens asked you to do so and you have only taken action once again in a reactive way. Only when the government of Nicolás Maduro acts is when you act. That is why we are here today, because if you do not take a more active role, we will do so again by the liberals and progressives who defend fundamental rights and freedoms. That is why, Minister, we want to explore the possibilities of extending the sanctions to other senior officials of the government of Nicolás Maduro, including the president himself, his vice-president, as well as his relatives. Also, Minister, let us extend the sanctions to Venezuelan oil, including the agreements with the public company PDVSA, which is plunged into the corruption that prevails in the regime of Nicolás Maduro. In short, Minister, we want you to honour what, at the initiative of the ALDE Group, but also with the support of the People's Group in the European Parliament, was approved by this institution. If you do not want to listen to us, Minister, at least listen to your colleagues and your European partners. Just a few weeks after the adoption of the sanctions, President Macron acknowledged that the measures taken by the Union with regard to the systematic violation of human rights in Venezuela had been very limited and he bet on an extension of the sanctions. In Citizens we agree, these sanctions are not enough and the authoritarian drift of the Bolivarian regime does not stop. Our parliamentary group - and also in Mr Macron's view - wants to go further and extend sanctions that remain short given the magnitude of the crisis that is affecting Venezuela. The authoritarianism that does not cease and neither should we cease in the defense of fundamental freedoms. Minister, you, at the United Nations Human Rights Council, travelled to Geneva and committed a firm defence of Spain in the area of freedoms, civil rights and political rights. Take action now, Minister, act, truly lead and make it possible to expand the functions in view of this absolutely intolerable approach of authoritarian drift from the Chavista regime. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Maura, for your inquiry. The traditional global objective of our bilateral relations with Latin American, Ibero-American countries, including Venezuela, is to maintain relations of friendship, respect and cooperation in attention to the particular intensity of our historical and current ties. However, and always from the point of view of the principle of State sovereignty, Spain cannot remain indifferent, it has not remained indifferent to a situation as serious as that of Venezuela, whatever the situation of bilateral relations at any given time. That is why we will continue to put, as we have done so far, the various instruments at our disposal to ensure that Venezuela returns to democratic normality and that Venezuelan citizens have decent and prosperous living conditions. As you say, the crisis in Venezuela has reached an enormous magnitude. On the one hand, economic indicators show that oil production is at least in the last thirty years, about 1.5 million barrels per day. The forecasts of the International Monetary Fund speak of an inflation rate of 13 000 % in 2018, that is, a country permanently installed in hyperinflation. It is also facing a 15 per cent reduction in gross domestic product, with a cumulative decline since 2013 of 50 per cent. This, of course, has social repercussions. We have seen diseases reappear in Venezuela that had been eradicated such as diphtheria and violent death rates are among the highest in the world. Unfortunately, the 2017 edition of the annual survey of living conditions prepared by the main universities pointed out that 82% of Venezuelan households were in poverty and 52% were in extreme poverty. The country, of course, is immersed in an institutional crisis. Following the entry of the negotiation process in the Dominican Republic in an indefinite recess, the National Electoral Council unilaterally called early presidential elections. On 1 March, Nicolás Maduro signed an electoral guarantee agreement with two minority opposition candidates, Henri Falcón and Javier Bertucci, which decided to hold the presidential elections simultaneously with those of legislative, regional and municipal councils. This agreement does not provide for two crucial aspects for the holding of competitive elections: an impartial electoral arbitrator and the possibility of the participation of all political forces and all candidates. In turn, the situation in the country has a strong regional impact as the number of Venezuelans who emigrate to other countries in search of a dignified life grows. Official figures speak of 550 000 Venezuelans residing in Colombia and the unofficials of up to 4 million Venezuelans who have emigrated. Faced with this panorama, we cannot remain and, in fact, we do not remain impassable. Since its inception we have sought to contribute to a solution to the crisis, which is why the Venezuelan Government has unfairly accused us of interference. [[The lady]] Ever since the respect for Venezuela's sovereignty, we cannot remain alien to a crisis of such magnitude, both because it is a brother country and because more than 200,000 Spaniards live there and because this crisis threatens to affect the stability of the continent as a whole. We have always advocated a peaceful, democratic and negotiated solution among Venezuelans within the framework of their legal order. We have also maintained that this solution involves returning the word to Venezuelans through elections that, according to international standards, are legitimate, transparent and credible, that is, universal, free, equal, direct and secret suffrage. Elections that do not have those characteristics will not help to resolve the crisis, but will deepen it. In line with our position, we have supported the various efforts for dialogue, always seeking an effective dialogue that would translate into concrete results. In this regard, you have made reference to the participation in those efforts of former President Zapatero. As I have said, we have supported all the dialogue efforts, including those that have had the intervention of the former President as facilitator, to whom we have provided logistical support and whose intervention in the negotiation efforts takes place, first of all, under the umbrella of Unasur and in any case not as representative of the Spanish Government. At the same time, as I said, we have been insisting that dialogue must be effective, that is, produce concrete effects and not serve as a pretext to buy time. The lack of genuine commitment on the part of the Venezuelan Government to the dialogue has ultimately been demonstrated by several acts prior to the indefinite recess and has prevented that dialogue from bearing fruit. Under these conditions, the Government has - I repeat, it has - led a reaction within the framework of the European Union to take pressure measures to try to convince that Government to really convene elections that are equal, legitimate, transparent and not one in which a coalition, such as the Bureau of Democratic Unity, is disqualified, and parties, such as First Justice and People's Will, and its most representative leaders are disqualified. The European Union, in response to this Spanish impetus, has taken an active part in the response to these activities of the Venezuelan Government and, thanks to this momentum, the Foreign Affairs Council has repeatedly called for the situation of human rights and the need for a negotiated exit, but in view of the lack of them, through restrictive measures aimed at ensuring that the Venezuelan Government engages in dialogue. We will continue with the call for attention to the human rights situation in Venezuela within the framework of the Human Rights Council; indeed, we are doing so. In my statement at the current thirty-seventh session, I have stated that we continue with great concern the deterioration of the political, social, economic and humanitarian situation in Venezuela and have reiterated our support for a peaceful, democratic and negotiated solution among Venezuelans within the framework of their legal order, which today goes through the organization of transparent, credible and legitimate elections, with the participation of all political forces and with guarantees as provided for in the Venezuelan order. Ultimately, the meeting of finance ministers of the G-20, with the participation of the Spanish Minister of Economy, has also called for the Venezuelan Government to accept the humanitarian aid of international society, and these ministers have been coordinated to take the necessary actions to prevent the illegal financing of the Venezuelan regime. Be assured, Your Honor, that we will also continue to address the crisis in our contacts with other international actors, both from the American continent and from other regions, and I think it is obvious, and you yourself have recognized it or if you have not recognized it you have given the clues to find out, that there has been a country against which the Venezuelan Government has reacted, that country has been Spain. You mentioned that President Macron did not agree with the scope of the decisions and restrictive measures taken so far. It would be curious because - and without questioning the statements of the French President - there is no news that President Maduro has intended to declare a person not grateful to the French ambassador, on the contrary, he has tried to bring him closer and convince him that he is a mediator and, however, the country against which he has reacted by declaring in an unjustifiable way a person not grateful to the ambassador is Spain. For something it will be. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u191	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, to begin with where you ended up, no one is surprised that the actions of some regimes, especially of dictatorships always committed to seeking the scapegoat of the external enemy with which to justify their shortcomings, have chosen one as can be Spain as a clear element of their invectives, and that is what happens, has chosen us the Chavista regime as the external enemy and puts us in sulfate at all times. But I do not think that is because we deserve it, Minister, nor because we act proactively in this area, because we are leading. I told you yesterday in the Joint Commission of the European Union, every time you talk to us about leadership in foreign policy - and I deny you the biggest because foreign policy is what does not exist in this government - it's a word that sounds hollow, it doesn't sound like anything because you don't lead anything. They don't lead anything, they don't. You tell me about friendship. I ask you to have very little friendship with a regime that violates the rights and freedoms of Venezuelan citizens; that leads to misery in your country, and you yourself have evoked it with data on diseases that have been eradicated and that have reappeared, such as sarna or tuberculosis; a country that is subject to hyperinflation in such a way that prices rise twice a month; with 40% loss of GDP since 2013, that is to say, Minister. Have little friendship with those leaders and have it with the population, a population that is leaving Venezuela in an absolutely incredible way, of the order of more than 10% of the population, 4 million Venezuelans are leaving Venezuela. I just got back from Colombia last week. A million Venezuelans are being made in the streets of Colombia along the 800 kilometers of border that separates it from Venezuela. There is a humanitarian crisis there, Minister. You have the answer to the reply in writing, but I hope you will escape reading and tell me what you will do with regard to the refugee camps that are already being established in Colombia or in other countries like Brazil. Canada is meeting the problems of that Venezuelan exile. You what? Minister, I have raised a question in which I asked you to be proactive in the matter of sanctions. You don't tell me about sanctions. What are we going to do with PDVSA? What are we gonna do about Maduro and his family? Are we going to sanction them or are we going to leave them in some kind of limbo to see if we ever restore a good relationship of friendship with this kleptocratic regime? [[Applauds]] It is a very serious question, Minister, it is not to joke about it; it is not to go out and make friends on the international scene with some gentlemen - by calling them in some way - who can do nothing but plunge their people into the absolutest of poverty with the most elementary violation of all human rights. Minister, Spain can do it and Spain has to do it. Please, go ahead and do it. Do your duties for once, Minister. If he doesn't, we'll be complaining about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u192	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Maura, you were already telling me yesterday and other times. He is free to have the opinion that he thinks about the proactive or reactive character of Spanish foreign policy, but I would be grateful if he would abandon that parallel universe and recognize reality. In the world, the countries of the Lima Group and the friendly countries of the European Union recognize that Spain is the leader of this process in the European Union. You will not think so, but you better consult your views with other objective observers. You tell me that we are doing little and, of course, I have no choice but to deny you the greatest. At the multilateral level, we have promoted sectoral sanctions that began with an arms embargo, anti-disturbing material and communications that could be used for internal repression; but also individual measures of assets freeze and travel ban for those responsible for serious human rights violations or for undermining democratic institutions. I would like to make it clear that, contrary to the argument put forward by the Venezuelan Government, the sanctions adopted by the Union in no way harm the Venezuelan population. The Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain do not want to be friendly with a particular regime or leader, but they do want to have and maintain it with the people of Venezuela, whom we consider to be a brotherly people, especially at a time when they are suffering humanitarian, social and shortage of all kinds. That is why we are not going to promote economic measures or measures that affect the Venezuelan economic system and will make the situation of the Venezuelan population worse. It is true that if the elections go ahead with the conditions in which they appear to be taking place, Spain will continue to insist on the European Union to tighten up the Venezuelan regime. We have already announced this on 26 February in the Foreign Affairs Council, in which we have launched a reflection on how to react if that scenario is taken forward. In that context, in that reflection, we have of course included the adoption of new sanctions and will do so whenever the elections do not meet the requirements of impartiality, free participation of all political forces and guarantees in accordance with international standards. At the bilateral level, we are also exploring how to improve our capacity to respond to the humanitarian crisis. The Secretary of State for International Cooperation has been together last week with the humanitarian aid commissioner in the Colombian border city of Cúcuta to know, first hand, the situation of Venezuelan immigrants. We have already channelled a million euros in 2017 through the Red Cross for the attention of the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, and we will contribute more than 350 000 euros in 2018. We are also supporting refugees and migrants within the framework of the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund of the Red Cross Foundation and the United Nations Humanitarian Aid Coordination Office. We will continue to contribute 250 000 euros this year to that office and 200 000 euros to the Colombian Red Cross Border Plan, as well as support for Acnur. As I said, our goal with Venezuela is to maintain relations of friendship, respect and cooperation with its people. The Venezuelan Government, in retaliation for the sanctions we have adopted, has declared the ambassador a non-grateful person, has accused us of interference, and we have had to react proportionally. Our bilateral and multilateral actions are, in any case, aimed at a return to normality and so that Venezuelans themselves can enjoy a dignified and prosperous life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u194	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken to ensure the financial balance of the system of social security. [[File number 172/000115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u195	We continue with the urgent call by the Socialist Group for measures to be taken to ensure the financial balance of the social security system. For his defence, Mr. Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u196	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this question the Socialist Parliamentary Group intends to bring to this Congress the voice of the millions of pensioners who are concerned, legitimately concerned, legitimately angry and legitimately mobilized in much of the streets and squares of our major cities. The first thing we are going to ask the government is respect for the concern, for the anger and for the mobilization of the Spanish pensioners, because they have reasons, because, Minister, they have the right to demand decent pensions after a life of sacrifice and hard work; and because those millions of pensioners who mobilized in the rain and in the snow last Saturday, for example, are the same ones who forty years ago mobilized to conquer the rights and freedoms that you and I enjoy today. [[applause]] A respect for these people. [[Applauds]] Moreover, they are angry and mobilized on the basis of two very real problems: the impoverishment of today's pensioners and the imbalance, the demise, of the social security accounts that threaten today's pensions and tomorrow's pensions. These are two serious, real problems that are at stake precisely in the policies of the People's Party Government. I hope you will rectify, but after listening to you today we are pessimistic, and knowing how we know the ideas you have and the interests you defend, we are pessimistic as to the possibility of your rectification. That's why we're with the pensioners in their mobilization. Pensioners are becoming poorer, yes, Minister. In fact, more than two thirds of pensioners in this country are suffering from difficulties in the amount of their pension. One third live below the poverty line, because they charge less than 60% of the median income in the country. More than 2 million pensioners live on pensions below EUR 600, Minister, and are becoming poorer, because if pensions rise by 0.25 while inflation rises by around 2%, pensioners become poorer. If pensioners today have to pay for painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs that they previously did not pay, pensioners become poorer. If you delay the increases in widow's pensions that appear in the law and that are legal obligation since 2011, the pensioners become impoverished. If you block in this Congress of Deputies the legislative proposals that seek to help economically and socially most vulnerable consumers in gas supplies, pensioners become poorer. We say that and the Independent Tax Accountability Authority says that. The Airef tells you that in the next five years the purchasing power of the pensioners will fall by 11%. I don't know about you, but I would have difficulty reconciling the dream with this responsibility, Minister. [[Applauds]] We're asking you to get pensions up under the CPI and you're missing out. But if this is the normal thing, Minister, this is what has happened in this country always until you arrived. This is what happens in the generality of the European Union, indexing the rise of pensions to the CPI, to which the cost of living rises. This is fair, this is what is deduced from article 50 of the Constitution, which speaks of adequate and duly updated pensions. This is the logical thing. Mr Rajoy was telling us on the 14th that asking to raise pensions according to the CPI is simply to talk about good wishes, it is to extend checks without funds, because the cost is very much. But what's so much, Minister? A lot is a relative term. Much, compared to what? It could be compared with the tax amnesty, with the rescue of toll freeways, but I'm going to compare it to immediate, annual budget decisions. You are forgiving 10% of the country's highest income taxes worth 13 billion a year since 2015; 13 billion euros a year in tax gifts to the highest incomes. With 13 billion we could pay ten years of pension increases under the CPI. Choose you, Minister. We choose to dignify pensions; you choose to lower taxes to higher incomes. It's not a check without funds, it's a political election, Minister. [[Applauds]] What's Mr. Rajoy's alternative? A little indeterminate and inconcrete. He tells us: We're going to raise the pensions to the widows, we're going to lower the IRPF. Pensioners' associations say this is almsgiving. I say it's also a trap, Minister. Lower the IRPF. But if most pensioners don't pay IRPF in this country, because they don't come! They'd like it already! [[Applauds]] But what is it about lowering the IRPF? How many pensioners will the IRPF lower, if those most in need of state aid, the dignity of pensions, no longer pay IRPF? They say they're going to improve widow's pensions. You will not dare to offer them as a budget gift, as a government grace to comply with a law that you have been failing since 2011. Since 2011 you have been awaiting the rise of widow's pensions, will you now offer it to the widows of this country as a gift, as a grace from Mr Montoro? Are you surprised that the pensioners are going out on the street to mobilize? [[Applauds]] They're getting out too soon, Minister. Rebalance social security accounts. This is another big demand from pensioners in this country. It is an imbalance in the social security accounts that causes cause in the policies of your Government, deliberate cause, Minister, with wilfulness, in our view. Let us be clear, your Government's objective in relation to pensions has always been to reduce public expenditure, to subject public expenditure, and not because we spend a lot because you speak in terms of absolute values in pension spending. You and I know that you have just sent Brussels a quantification of public expenditure on pensions, 11.5% of GDP. Is that a lot? Well, you and I know that Germany spends on the 14th and that France and Italy are spending on the 15th, so the problem is not that we spend a lot on our wealth, the problem is that you want to reduce public spending to have more room to further reduce taxes on higher incomes. You know that the lower public spending on the public pension system, the more scope there is for the private pension fund business that also promotes the president of the Toledo Pact Commission in this country. [[applause]] How do they do it? For when they govern, reducing the income due and increasing the undue costs; with labour reform, they lower wages and lower contributions; with active employment policies, you unduly charge Social Security the reductions in business quotas; with policies of support to entrepreneurs, which we support, you unduly charge flat rates to Social Security accounts and skil the Reserve Fund from 67 billion to 8 billion and trap Social Security 25 billion with the Treasury between 2017 and 2018 and 8 billion that will have to be returned someday to the mutuals, Minister. [[applause]] So, of course, the deficit goes from 1 billion to 19 billion. It's your responsibility, Minister. Then comes the sequence of his speech: We have a lot of deficit, we have structural deficit, the social security accounts are unsustainable and something will have to be done. So, what to do? Always the same, Minister, in your speech. Then the acronyms and algorithms arrive, and when you come with acronyms and algorithms, the pensioners shake hands with the wallet because something will touch them. That if pension revaluation index, that if IRP, that if Sustainability Fund, that if sustainability factor... Minister, don't hang up anymore. Social Security accounts are not unsustainable, the only thing unsustainable is the policy of his Government. Social Security had sustainable accounts before you came to the Government and when you leave the Government you will again have sustainable accounts. [[Applauds]] What do you mean, Minister? Quickly, how social security accounts are balanced: streamlining expenditure and increasing revenue. How are expenses rationalized? Freeing social security from administrative and personnel costs which in other countries of Europe fall under the General Budgets, deriving from the General Budgets of the State the reductions in business contributions and flat rates that promote active employment policies and support for entrepreneurship, charging budgets with what is in the budgets and not in the Social Security. How do you increase income? Repealing labour reform; strengthening collective bargaining; increasing the inter-professional minimum wage and thus increasing social contributions; increasing the means of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate to flourish the submerged economy, to flourish those overtime hours that are worked but not paid and for which they are not paid; opening up false part-time contracts; opening up false self-employed; finding contributions in the highest wages; promoting the contribution of self-employed people on the basis of real income and taxes. Yes, Minister, with taxes, taxes are for this, to satisfy objectives of general interest, and you will agree with me that there is nothing above the payment of pensions in the general interest. And also taxes on the banking, yes, taxes on the banking and all sectors that in bad times demand the solidarity of Spanish society and in good times have to tie their shoulder. [[Applauds]] Banking, yes, taxes on those who have the most, on those who earn the most, taxes on those who hide the most, especially. Taxes on the bank to pay pensions as happens in other countries: as happens in England, minister, and I assure you that brokers of the London City do not walk the streets cutting their veins, the London City has survived!; taxes as the general French contribution that Mr Macron now announces will go up, and I assure you that the Champs-Elysées will not dry up, Minister, they will continue to flourish! Taxes on banking in Germany... and the Brandenburg Gate is still there, Minister. [[Applauds]] No new acronyms are needed or complex algorithms are needed to fulfill the pensioners, just one thing: to have will and to want. It is enough to rectify, in its case in time and not as happened, by the way, with the regulations in relation to living units. Madam Minister, we ask you here in your moment to rectify the case of those Sorian grandmothers - do you remember?-, dona Julia and dona Encarna. You rectified but rectified on time and dona Julia died, died alone at her home in Madrid. [[Rumors]] Correct, but correct correctly, correct in time. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u197	Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, you have come here to hold the meeting on 21 March instead of talking seriously about the pension model, which is a matter of state. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] I am saddened that the Socialist Party, which has contributed significantly throughout its history to strengthening the pension model that our country has today, is making the intervention you made this morning. Because, believe me, this is to take it seriously and to take it rigorously, because it is a matter of state. I do not know if you are familiar with the model of pensions we have in our country, that public model of distribution, contribution and solidarity that prides all Spaniards. I don't know if you know that it is the biggest network of support, commitment and solidarity that our country co-ordinates every day, that strengthens the generation that is now being a pensioner and that is the hope of millions of young people who contribute to paying pensions and who want to be pensioners in the future. I do not know if you know that it also makes territorial cohesion from the solidarity of all. I do not know if you know that it favors those people who worked in depressed sectors with the solidarity of those others who worked in the most pressing sectors of our economy, that network of solidarity, immense, which is a social heritage of all Spaniards. So important for us, Mr Simancas, is the public model of pensions that we have, so important for the Spaniards, that two parties of different ideologies in 1995 formed a common commitment that is the Toledo Pact: the most important social pact of our democracy, which was sealed in 1995 and that we signed together PSOE and the People's Party, Convergence i Unió, the Basque Nationalist Party and the United Left of the time, because it was the heritage of all the Spaniards, Mr Simancas! [[Applauds]] I am surprised that I have to come here today to recognize the generations of socialists who believed in the public system we have today and that you have, that you have so little respect! to the Spaniards with the statements you made here this morning. [[rumors]] Because if you could give lessons on how to strengthen our pension model, I might have to shut up today in this rostrum. [[Rumors]] Believe me, I take my responsibility more seriously, but above all, I hear, respect and understand the demands of our elders because it is everyone's responsibility to have daily commitment to them. As a Spaniard, I am very proud of the pension system that our country has today. I told you that it is a public, contributory, distribution and solidarity model, and you have made no statement in that regard. It is public and it is necessary to do pedagogy, Your Honor, because it is financed basically with the contributions of the people who work at the moment; also part of it, because of its solidarity, is financed with the revenues of the General Budgets of the State that we pay all the Spaniards. It is also a comprehensive and generous system, as all social organizations and study services, including OECD and other international organizations, recognize within and outside our country. Because it doesn't just pay a pension fan in our country; it also pays more than 40 social benefits, which is also a pride for all of us. In addition, he said that he is supportive, and he is supportive because for those who have shorter working careers or jobs in much more depressed sectors of our society, there is a minimal complement to achieving the minimum retirement pension - which they have only four countries in Europe - and today it is claimed by 2.4 million people, with the effort and generous commitment of all Spanish society, and we must be proud of that. Our public pension model is so important and we must be so responsible when talking about it, because it is the most important part of public spending in our country. Note, in 2017 the expenditure on pensions is 139,200 million euros, 40% of the expenditure of the State and 29% of the total public expenditure. This expenditure has increased significantly in just a decade, before it was a total expenditure of €90 billion. Thanks to the Spaniards, today we have very worthy pensions that we want to improve among all, but I will give you three data that reveal that statement that I make. The average pension in Spain, according to the OECD, represents 72% of the pre-retirement wage. In the thirty-five most developed countries in the world that is 52 per cent of the last wage. Spain therefore pays more attention with a more generous pension than the average of the OECD countries, and that is a success of the entire Spanish society. In Spain, the income of the population over 65 years of age represents almost 99% of the total average income of the population. In the OECD it is only 87%. Spain is also part of a better position in this international sphere. Finally, and you know very well, the effort that has been made by all Spanish society, even in a severe economic crisis, makes today the rate of risk of poverty among people over 65 is 6%, which is the lowest rate in our history. I feel, as a Spaniard - not as a minister - very proud of all that we do in our country with that unity of the Spaniards. Of course you can improve things and we want it to improve!, but the best way to engage with pensioners is to be honest, be serious, agree how we can strengthen and preserve our public pension model every day, and also act to avoid risk situations. [[Applauds]] Mr Simancas, believe me, the President of the Government is the person who has supported pensioners the most and has worked the most since 2011 for having a better public pension system. He did so primarily with three decisions. Firstly, do not ask for the rescue of Spain so that in this country pensions will not be lowered in 2011, as happened in many countries in our environment. [[Applauds]] Secondly, not freezing pensions, as the last socialist government did, and raising pensions every year and always establishing that rise by law; they have risen every year, which has sometimes been possible, little but, overall, the Spanish pensioners know that the great effort of Spanish society in the crisis was made with them because they were the most vulnerable part of our society. The third major decision made by the President of the Government was to launch an economic policy in our country that would promote the creation of jobs and better jobs in Spain, which is the security right for today's pensions and also tomorrow's pensions, Mr Simancas. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I ask you to be humble because those who put the pension model at risk here were those who destroyed more than 3.5 million jobs with their economic policy, those who froze the pensions at the time when there was a difficulty and started asking the pensioners for more effort, and those who made our country, in two years' time, lose €70 billion in the management of the crisis, which put the social security system at risk and in deficit, Mr Simancas, please. [[Applauds]] Look, we have a long way to go, but Spain, thanks to the collective effort of Spanish society, has already changed from the path of deficit to the path of stability of the system; it has been very hard, because this effort is the effort of the Spaniards, because two of the three jobs destroyed by the crisis have been recovered, but we have not yet reached the full recovery. For the first time since 2008, Mr.Simancas, in 2017 social security quota revenues grew more than pension spending, because we reversed, as I said, the trend of the deterioration of the deficit in 2017 and we started the return to the path of financial balance. We do not deny that the social security deficit is significant, EUR 18 billion, but it is a temporary deficit and neither should you deny that 70% of that financial deterioration was the massive destruction of employment when you ruled. If you want, we'll talk for real. In 2018 there are three good news for the Social Security system. The first, which continues to accelerate job creation in our country, because that strength of recovery that Spanish society wants is a reality every day in our country. Secondly, because indefinite employment continues to grow intensely in Spain and continues to improve wages in our country. You can say whatever you want, but if you read the 2017 EPA, you will see that twice as many indefinite contracts were created as temporary contracts in one year, Mr Simancas. [[Applauds]] The 2018 data tells us that indefinite employment is growing to 15% by tripling the creation of temporary employment. The third, which is also important, is that we chain sustained growth in the net collection of Social Security. We have been collecting more than EUR 10 billion for eight consecutive months, so much so, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first three months of the year, we have raised almost EUR 1.5 billion more than in 2017. This issue on which we all have responsibility, which is so important for the present and for the future of our pensioners, is a matter of state, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Simancas, I make a proposal to you: in this legislature the government of Mariano Rajoy has been able, in a year and a half, to reach important consensus. We have reached a pact with all the autonomous communities to improve the youth guarantee and employment opportunities of young people; with them we have also strengthened the long-term unemployment programmes; with all the parliamentary groups, also with their own, we have been able to agree a law to promote the social protection of the self-employed that will benefit this year many self-employed people who are pulling out of recovery in Spain; and we have been able, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, to raise the interprofessional minimum wage in 2017 by 8%, and now the Government has managed to reach a pact with trade unions and employers to raise the minimum wage by 20% and reach 850 euros in 2020; two important decisions that will promote the collection of contributions to the system and improve social security figures. Mr Simancas, after all those pacts with political parties, with trade unions and employers, with autonomous communities, being pensions the main problem and the main concern of the Spaniards, do you want to tell me why the Socialist Party will not be able to reach a pact with the other political forces in the Toledo Pact to improve and strengthen pensions? [[Applauds]] I will try it to the end; it is my responsibility but, never doubt it, also yours, Mr Simancas. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u200	Thank you, President. Minister, I don't know if you're aware of your role. You are the minister who according to Airef, the Spanish Independent Tax Authority, is impoverishing Spanish pensioners at 2 points per year. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] You are the minister who has passed the social security deficit from 1 billion to 19 billion. You are the minister who found the Pension Reserve Fund with 67 billion and left it at 8 billion. You are the minister who has managed to take out millions of pensioners, millions of elderly people with rain and snow on the street distressed by their pensions. [[Applauds]] Minister, come up here with humility. Come up here with respect. Come up here with solutions and don't come up here with diatribes to the opposition. You're not in that role. You put yourself on as you put yourself on, no one will understand you, Minister. In this country, you assume that wealth is growing at a rate of 3%; in this country, business profits are growing above 5% per year; in this country, dividends distributed by large companies are growing above 11%. And there are no resources in this country to dignify pensions, so that pensions rise the same as the cost of living!Is that what you're talking about? [[Applauds]] This can't be understood by anyone, Minister, as you put it! He tells me about the Toledo Pact, of course we were co-builders of the Toledo Pact. But what happened in the Toledo Pact, Minister? Do you remember the year 2013? You arrived with a unilateral pension reform. You guys imposed it on everyone. What's he telling us now about the pact? Are you prepared to give up the unilateral reform of 2013? Are you prepared to give up the ceiling on pension increases of 0.25 and the sustainability factor that will impoverish new pensioners from 1 January? [[Applauds]] If you are willing to renounce that imposition we will be willing to speak again in the Toledo Pact seriously. Minister, you again refer to your great argument. The great argument of economic growth and employment. I will tell you one thing, Minister: growing up and creating employment is a necessary condition, even essential I would recognize it, but it is not enough. You know why? It is also said by the Spanish Independent Fiscal Authority, because two thirds of our deficit has nothing to do with the rate of growth but with the growth model and the employment model that you are creating with precarious employment. With part-time contracts, with wages of misery, whatever we grow, we will never cover the social security deficit because it will not be paid enough. [[Applauds]] Moreover, Minister, it is not enough to grow, we must distribute in a fair way. If we grow every year and the benefits that are generated are going to stop tax gifts at 10% of the highest income according to Mr Montoro's tax reform, it doesn't matter. Let's grow up, yes, but let's split it up in a fair way. It's a matter of choosing. We with the benefits of growth choose and we will put it black and white in our amendments to the General Budgets of the State. We choose with growth to finance decent pensions for this country! What are you going to choose? [[Applauds]] Tax reduction. The tax rebate is a fraud, Minister. First, because the pensioners who help the most need not go or come because they don't pay taxes right now. The beneficiaries will be very few and it is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. The taxes - about 4 or 5 euros - that you are going to give in the IRPF to some pensioners will pay more when the drug comes back and they will withdraw new medicines from the social security subsidies; they will pay more when there are no resources to open public residences; they will pay more when their children and grandchildren are billed for health, education and social services. And those children and grandchildren are supported by the pensioners! [[Applauds]] Bread for today, hunger for tomorrow; they are deceitful, their tax gifts, minister. And you continue with the Goebbelian strategy of freezing. Minister, everyone knows, the millions of pensioners who went out to the streets with rain and snow - it is your merit - last Saturday know that the socialist government has raised minimum pensions over seven years by 50% and you are lowering the purchasing power of pensions to two points per year. That is the reality, however much you repeat, Minister. [[Applauds]] If you want to calm the pensioners, do not give diatribes to the opposition or make self-congratulation speeches. What you have to do in relation to the budgets that you will bring here next Tuesday is to put black on white that the pensions this year, retroactively on 1 January, are going to raise what goes up the consumer price index, which goes up the cost of living. [[Applauds]] This is what you have to go up to say here now, and that you are going to rebalance the social security accounts not by jamming it but with revenues from the general state budgets, and that you are going to repeal the reform imposed in 2013 to relaunch the Toledo Pact. This is what you have to do, and if you do not do so, for many diatribes who launch to the opposition, however much you speak to us, I insist, of Zapatero, of Largo Caballero or of Emperor Trajano - minister, I tell you again -, you will have the pensioners mobilizing in the street, worried, angry and mobilized, and with the Socialist Party behind. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u201	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u202	Mr Simancas, this morning I am left with historical references that to me are everyday heroes: the pensioners who today are collecting their pensions and the Spaniards who knew how to prioritize the general interest of Spain, who parked their ideology and signed in 1995 the Toledo Pact, which is the most important social pact of our democracy. [[Applauds]] Those are my heroes this morning. I'll tell you something again. Sometimes they forget - and I am surprised that a socialist does - that we have a public system contributing to distribution and solidarity. I used to tell him that twenty of the last forty years have ruled socialists, and I believe that they made the best efforts to preserve our pension model and that much progress was made in those years with the consensus of the rest of the political groups. But if there have been some governments that have put pensions at risk, it has been precisely two socialist governments, at two specific moments in our history: when they left the system in deficit, in red numbers, and, in particular, the last socialist government, when it was unable to manage the crisis in another way and left Spain on the verge of bankruptcy, left the labour market with 3.5 million less contributors, frozen the pensions of our elderly, Mr Simancas, having 66 billion euros in the Social Security Reserve Fund - they have not yet asked the Spanish for forgiveness for having frozen the pensions instead of having taken out 2 billion euros to pay them - and finally left Spain with a very harsh economic crisis, in recession and destroying 1500 daily jobs. [[applause]] The efforts of Spanish society have made it possible to reverse this situation, Your Honor. From here I want to send a message of confidence and tranquillity to pensioners, because we have a model of pensions that is viable in the present and in the future; their guarantee is economic growth, quality employment and pacts between political forces in the Toledo Pact. That is the security right of our pensions today and also tomorrow. Your Honor, the European Commission has just said so. A week ago the European Commission said that the Spanish pension system is viable in the medium and long term if the reforms undertaken mainly in the years 2011 and 2013 are maintained. We did so both a socialist government and a popular government to preserve our pension model. And, of course, you criticize the measures that were taken and talk about cuts, when it is a moderation of the increase in spending. [[Rumors]] It seems a lie that you don't read the Independent Fiscal Authority's reports when you came to the Toledo Pact. You call it a cut and I call it a moderation in spending increases, because spending is going to rise every year, yes or yes, because we have a system that welcomes more pensioners every day and lives longer, which is good news for society. Of this moderation in the increase in expenditure of the system by the year 2040, according to Airef, 75% of the reduction in expenditure corresponds to the 2011 reform and 25% to the 2013 reform of the People's Party, with which, ladies and gentlemen, three out of four decisions were made by a socialist government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Tell the truth honestly if you want to talk about it, because we also have to talk about it, of course, because sometimes, as you said, you have to rationalize the system by separating sources of funding; by the way, this government has done so in 2012 and 2013, when you should have done so from the start of the Toledo Pact decision. Look, there is a report from the University of Valencia that says that if, first, you had made the separation of sources of funding in your day and as it was playing and, secondly, you had contributed to the Reserve Fund in the years 2008 and 2009, EUR 13 billion, today the fund would have EUR 100 billion to continue paying pensions normally. I'm not saying that. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I take the positive. The Toledo Pact is the place of consensus, agreement and place where we have to look calmly and rigorously at what the pension system is today and what we want to remain in the future. That is where I hope that the Socialist Group will do well, with the good spokesmen in that Commission, which I know is doing a great job. The 21 recommendations are being renewed, Your Honor. Let us leave the Toledo Pact and all the parliamentary groups to work peacefully. I am grateful for the day-to-day efforts made by the various spokesmen, because it is not easy, it is a matter of State, and from here the Government will support the consensus that emerges from that Commission and will subsequently work on the concrete measures that it will have to take with the parliamentary groups and on the social dialogue with trade unions and employers. Because the government's goal is that there will be more and better pensions in our country every day and that in 2018 all pensions and, in particular, minimum pensions and widowhood pensions will be raised. We also owe it to all the pensioners who are seeing us right now. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-21-CD180321.u203	Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was one and ten minutes in the afternoon.
