ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. I should like to inform you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, items 7 and 8 of the agenda will be discussed at tomorrow's meeting and their vote will take place at Thursday's meeting. We begin with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress to amend Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u2	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. It points out the preamble to the Civil Registration Act 1957, which came to replace - which we like so much in Spain - a provisionality of at least eighty years, that this law respects the classic view on the mission of the Civil Registration, conceived as an instrument for the official record of the existence, marital status and status of persons. In turn, its regulation states that public activity registers, in close contact with ordinary law, aims to create titles of legitimization on marital status, to constitute the State itself and, always, to provide individuals with information on the civil status of persons in which they can rely by virtue of their legal guarantees. This record confers security and certainty in civil life and interests each person, the State and third parties. We said, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago, almost jokingly, that at this time of the afternoon talking about the Civil Registry seems somewhat arid, and probably so, but it is talking about all those rights and vicissitudes that are part of the most intimate and the most personal. It is a leap forward and show that we are at another time, that there are other realities and that we need to adjust the instruments and tools. The high technical quality of the 1957 law has always been recognized, but it is true that it was necessary to adapt it to the reality that people live in our country and within the constitutional framework. Hence the adoption of Law 20/2011 on Civil Registry, with a high degree of consensus, confronts us with a new conception, a new model of Civil Registry. The law of 2011 takes the person as its axis and, as I told them, its most notable aspects are maintained and recalled in the proposed law that we present. This is not a proposal of law that breaks model, this is not a proposal of law contrary to the law of 2011, it is a proposal of law that articulates, that allows the correct execution and that tries to make, once and for all, a civil registry that is the one that the Spanish society of the twenty-first century needs. These principles that we recall in the proposed law - and which are maintained - are the following. First principle, the creation of a model radically different from that of the 1957 Act which recalled, prioritizing the history of each individual, freeing him from administrative burdens and balancing the necessary protection of his fundamental right to privacy with a public record. The implementation of this new system involves breaking with the traditional system of the technical division of the Civil Registry into sections and the creation of an individual registry consisting of a sheet or extract containing the personal data of the individual's life. Second principle, the conduct of the Civil Registry will be assumed by public officials other than those who make up the judiciary of the State, allowing the technical, organizational and management applications of an administrative nature that will allow a greater uniformity of criteria and a more agile and efficient processing of the various files, but without any loss of citizens' rights to an effective judicial guardianship. Thirdly, the introduction of a single civil register throughout Spain, computerised and electronically accessible, which allows the unit of information to be combined with territorialized management and universal access. This new model represents a conceptual leap that, on the other hand, implies the overcoming of the Civil Registry physically articulated in books and obliges a rethinking of the organizational structure, whose main objective is to relieve the citizen of the burden of having to necessarily go face-to-face to the offices of the registry. The organization of the new Civil Registry will be in a central office, registry offices and consular offices, with their own functions and competencies and depending hierarchically on the resources of the General Directorate of Registry and the Notary. At the head of the offices will be a manager who will be assigned the functions corresponding to the processing and resolution of the corresponding certifications and issuance of the different procedures that determine these titles of instrumental advertising. Finally, the configuration of an electronic Civil Registry, in which computer seats are practiced, incorporating the use of new technologies and electronic signature. The aim, therefore, of the proposed law is to adapt the legal rule, that rule of maximum consensus, to the definitive model of Civil Registry conceived in it, allowing its implementation and clearly pointing out aspects that professionals and citizens have demanded of us, and that, having remained too open in the year 2011 - with all that you know that has been this trajectory - it required greater clarity. Clarity, for what? Firstly, to preserve the nature of the Civil Registry as a public service and free of charge; secondly, to ensure access to all citizens with a network of nearby offices and promoting access to the registry through electronic services and, thirdly, to take advantage of the experience and respect the rights of public employees in charge of their conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before you today acts as the last link for the full implementation of that law and the new ordination, in order to articulate in the best possible way those aspects which - as I said - after different vicissitudes were left open and which must be regulated in order to allow their correct execution. After extensive discussions and many meetings with the autonomous communities, trade unions and professionals, this text complies with their demands and, thus, with the commitment of the Government transferred repeatedly and in all forums by the Minister of Justice. With these modifications, following his words, it is possible to launch a modern register, accessible, safe, useful, public, free, close to the citizen and with the maintenance of the current territorial structure, the courts of Peace, which have so many times told us that they are essential because they continue to allow this proximity to territories or people who are not always in the same situations as in the big cities or in the medium or large municipalities. After my speech, ladies and gentlemen, you will most likely hear that this proposal changes the model of the 2011 law. I think I have already shown you that it is not so, just read it carefully and without demagogy. It is therefore absolutely uncertain. The cotton test is found in the modified articles - the least - and in those that remain - the most - without any modification, those that, moreover, describe the essence of this transformation of the Civil Registry in Spain. However, we believe that, after so many professionals and people who have claimed not to lose the physical proximity of offices and because we take into account their peculiarities and difficulties, it is possible to reconcile this maintenance of offices with the unique and digitized registration model, which allows direct and remote access but with all guarantees to each and every one of the people, live in the territory they live. On this long road, in the holiday period of the law of 2011, it has been sought to reach the same consensus that gave rise to the law and to make compatible the maximum modernization of a record that is built, as I have told you, around that personal sheet that brings together the vicissitudes of each individual throughout life. That is how we brought it here, with an important consensus on the fundamentals to improve it in its handling of what was needed. Some who will happen to me in speaking today will probably try to justify their change of position in a non-existent change of model. They will have to explain why they persist in the suppression of the courts of peace, and the answer is not that with their maintenance the principle of judicialization is broken, because it is not. They will have to respond to people who ask for closeness and understanding with the different situation of access and management of technologies, but do not disguise, please, their motivations outside the technical aspects of this text with approaches that have not changed. They will probably have to explain it to so many who have publicly said that there was no need for such a radical change either, because what was needed was for the judge not to be clearly in charge of the Civil Registry and yet here we respect the whole model and, as I say, we try to make it compatible. In the parliamentary sphere, therefore, we want to formally begin today the search for maximum consensus. We're on time. If we agree that we can no longer wait to launch this new Civil Registry and the implementation of the 2011 law - and we have heard it many times - there is no excuse. It has taken all the time to bring together sensitivities in the extra-parliamentary framework in the face of the change of model that implies the entry into force of this law and the means have been put in place to build the technological architecture that allows it to function properly. To close the doors so that, from today, in a reasonable time and within Parliament, we can make this law complete for its entry into force, cannot be justified. We ask for consideration and then for a calm, parliamentary, but agile debate, to finish developing an important but unfinished work, an organizational structure that affects, and very much, people's day-to-day and against which their many claims demand that we not lose ourselves in covetous and opportunistic changes of opinion. Think, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that at the end of the sitting we have reached, also for this consideration, the consensus requested by the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u3	Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I support the amendment of Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry, which, as has just been recalled, constitutes one of the essential public services within the Administration of Justice and for the benefit of all citizens. This consideration is necessary and has a priority in view of successive postponements for the entry into force of a legal text which should have been accompanied by instruments of modernization prior to its implementation. We are faced with a first step in resolving the major shortcomings that almost seven years ago were warned from virtually all sectors. It is desirable to complete the commitment to the improvement of the Civil Registry resulting from a law that was widely supported by the General Courts in its day and that promotes, among other things, that civil registers are not carried out only by judges, in order to expedite procedures that now, in the middle of digitization, are complicated but that can be resolved by officials in all matters relating to births, marriages, deaths, guardianship and legal representations. We speak with this law of silent reforms, such as the physical disappearance of the Family Book or the disappearance of the sections to create in their place an individual record by assigning a personal code created from the first registration. In the explanatory statement and also in the speech by Mrs Moro Almaraz, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, we appeal to political and social consensus to continue a reform with a view to staying in the future. The law has been passed during the 10th Legislature, exceeding more than five decades of immobilism in the management of the Civil Registry, and while the current parliamentary arithmetic is very different, it would be desirable that there would be no obstacles to finally achieving the objectives set out to make it a single and electronic administrative body, and in accordance with 21st century Spain. However, Madam President, seeing what is already beginning to be a tradition, I fear the worst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u5	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u6	Good afternoon, Madam President. When we analyzed this proposition, we had a doubt: either we were faced with a new exercise of manifest incompetence, improvisation after improvisation, patch after patch or, worse still, with a clear example of bad faith and hidden intention. In any case, they are both reprehensible, because from Euskal Herria Bildu we do not forget what the privatizing and re-centralizing intentions of this Government have been, also with regard to this essential public service. Let us not forget, as was pointed out, that in the Civil Registry we find all the data of each one of us and of us since we were born until we die, with each and every one of the variables that can be produced throughout our life and that, moreover, the Civil Registry is a public service that we necessarily have to turn to each and every one of us and ourselves more than once in life. Therefore, a very valuable service for all those who want to do business and cash the needs of the citizen; data, moreover, very sensitive that must always have special protection. Therefore, maintenance should be ensured as a public service, free of charge and close to the entire population. It is not a speculation to talk about privatizing intentions because, although they were initially stopped by the Yellow Sea, by the mobilizations of the workers together with the associations in defense of the public, today, from our point of view and in a plan B way, we are still dripping, measured by measure, a whole type of initiative to dismantle and empty the civil registry of competences. They started with nationalities. This next June 30 begins with civil marriages by losing civil records the exclusivity of their processing and becoming exercised also by notaries. And, as a last step, the attempt to eliminate this service of towns and cities because, let us not be fooled, the proposal made in this proposal to maintain the current structure in all towns and cities is only made because they still lack the new technical, IT and administrative structure. But we were also talking about recentralisation, and in this urgent, transitional proposal they have also taken advantage of the recentralisation scissors. The possibility that autonomous communities with executive powers could appoint those responsible for organizing and deciding on civil registrations disappeared. They again demonstrate hatred for the sovereignty of the nations that are now part of the Spanish State and aversion to the present self-government. In short, from our point of view, there is no other remedy than to reject this proposal and, in any case, to bet on a new legal vacation that will give rise to an open, sincere debate of all the sectors involved, which lays the foundations for the maintenance of an essential public service such as that in which we are concerned.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u7	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for bringing us here a proposal for a law that serves to revive the debate on the necessary modernisation of an institute as important as the Civil Registry. Law 20/2011 gave rise to a very broad consensus in this House to design a new judicialized record, based on the individual record of chronological conduct and electronic support. We have suffered a lot, yes, with the proposal of the former Minister of Justice to privatize it by handing it over to the property and merchants; a bad idea that, fortunately, was abandoned in 2015. However, we now have an extension of this Law 20/2011 and, before this vacancy expires, you bring us a proposal for reform that seems to be of limited scope, but which can have very negative consequences due to its precipitation. The initial drafting of Law 20/2011 already assigns the function of registry officer to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice as members of a public service body of its own to which the current lawyers could access. In the proposal that we are now discussing, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice will be able to assume such functions as belonging to their current body. This change is very important because it is done without proposing any retributive modification, which is essential, since lawyers are now going to assume functions of direction, qualification and legal resolution. When the judge disappears, the work of an exclusive civil registry will increase quantitatively and qualitatively, and the worst will be in non-exclusive civil registries, where lawyers will be required to reconcile their new functions with those of the Judicial Office, without the provision of full or partial release. Therefore, it is logical to think that such records will be avoided by lawyers and subject to permanent coverage by passing interims, with the consequent damage to the service. Moreover, his proposal does not allude to the need to wait for the government to consume the correlative reforms of a material and organizational type that are essential: training and retraining courses for lawyers, implementation of the appropriate and well-proven technological registration platform - which does not pass us as with Lexnet - and the negotiation of job relations. In short, what we must avoid is putting the new registration system in a position to fail before it starts, because we must prevent this hypothetical failure from fuelling attempts at privatization. Therefore and considering, moreover, that it would be inconvenient, while the Government does its duties, to extend the entry into force of Law 20/2011, Compromís is going to abstain in the vote of this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u9	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start my speech, once again, by recalling that we have four people in permanent prison; four political prisoners, four good people who are in prison without being tried and, therefore, completely unjustly. [[Rumors]] We demand your immediate release. [[Applauds]] As far as the subject of this afternoon's debate is concerned, the Democratic Party is not going to oppose the processing of this law. We agree with the computerization of the register, the carrying of a sheet by each individual where his or her civilian career is reflected throughout his or her life, and in the process of amendments we will ensure that this is indeed consolidated as a public service, a free service, a community service. But together with these demands that this public registry, this civil registry, we will also continue to defend what was already preserved by the 2011 law, such as respect for the competences of the autonomous communities with exclusive competence in this field, especially in material, organizational and executive means, and that in this law, in its current wording, there is no guarantee as to, for example, those responsible for the civil registry, who will be, as far as the law says, the lawyers of the administration of justice. The literality of article 147 of the Catalonian Autonomy Statute, which states in its wording that this competence to appoint persons in charge of the Civil Registry, in this case, belongs to the autonomous communities with competence in this field, must be ensured. If we save these pitfalls, guarantee publicity and guarantee gratuitousness, we will finally vote in favour of the project, but we must be very cautious at the outset because we must avoid this re-centralizing trend of the government party in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u12	Thank you very much, President. The Government presents to us, through the People's Parliamentary Group, an initiative for partial reform of the Civil Registry Act, which will be the sixth since it was adopted in 2011. Law 20/2011, on the Civil Registry, intended to carry out the most ambitious changes since 1957 and for this reason there was a legal vacancy of three years, until 2014, in order to be able to carry them out, although, almost on the verge of meeting that deadline, it was extended again to July 2015; that date came again, it was extended again in two years, until June 2017, and last year it was extended again until June of this year. In short, and for now, four vacatio legis from 2011 to 2018. One of the reasons, if not the largest, for these successive extensions has been and is the debate on who should be responsible for the conduct and organization of civil registrations, once the 2011 law decided to appease judges and magistrates to stand before them in a role they had played since at least 1957. What have we had during all these years regarding the conduct and organization of the records? Well, of all things. There have been proposals and rumors from the judicial secretaries, passing through the notaries, the municipalities, the autonomous communities and even the records of the property and the mercantiles, the latter being the most striking and controversial, coming to be collected in a royal decree-law omnibus, 8/2014, among some of its many provisions, in particular among its additional twenty to twenty-four. A public-law corporation was even set up in which commercial registrars were to be integrated for the management of a future single computer system, the construction of which was entrusted to a defence company, Ingeniería de Sistemas para la Defensa de España, S.A. From Euskadi and from this Basque Parliamentary Group we have always shown concern about this last alternative from all points of view and therefore, and in a sustained manner, the need has been proposed to maintain the civil records in the field of the Administration of Justice, entrusting their bearing to the judicial secretaries - now lawyers - and/or to other type of staff of the corps at the service of the Administration of Justice. And that always, which we have always supported in order to get out of a locked and conflicting situation, we have done so in the working groups set up in the Ministry of Justice, in the amendments during the processing as draft law of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 and, more recently, at the sectoral conference of 22 February 2017, in which a text was proposed that was approved; text for which the Minister of Justice requested at that conference its urgent processing in the Courts or even by royal decree-law, because the deadline for its adoption was due in June of last year, although, as we know, another extension was again approved until June of this year, so that text did not come to be processed. It is precisely that text which, with important modifications to what was agreed at that sectoral conference, is now presented to us by the Government, through the People's Parliamentary Group, as a proposal for a law, amending the treaty and agreed at a sectoral conference and again with only four months to process it; its maximum date of approval would be 30 June this year, unless another extension is approved. Ladies and gentlemen, can things be made worse from 2011 until now, almost eight years later? Everything has been, from our point of view, wandering around, generating a high degree of social and labor alarm, and between the workers of the registry and the autonomous communities that until now we managed their bearing. And when an agreed solution is reached that would bring rest again, the agreed will not be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the text of the proposal and we will vote against it, since the decision of the Registration Act of 2011 to withdraw its conduct from judges and judges is maintained and attributed to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice assisted by the official staff of the bodies in the service of the Administration of Justice, thus taking advantage of the experience accumulated by both of them in the service of the Civil Registry, as agreed at the sectoral conference mentioned, however, the powers of the Autonomous Communities such as that of Euskadi are being reduced not only with regard to what has been being done at the head of the management of the civil registers in the Basque Country since its management took place in 1987 with the transfer to provide the human and material means of the Administration of Justice, but also with respect to other autonomous communities that in their statutes in recent reforms have specified the matter of Civil Registration as compared to other public registers, which was not initially done in the statutes because the conduct of the Civil Registry was inexemptible in law and materially the administration of the human resources for the service. The Civil Registry was fully intertwined with both the Administration of Justice and the Administration of Justice, and this was reflected in the elaboration of the Basque Statute, when the executive competence was collected in the various registers of property but no reference was made to the Civil Registry because it was subsumed materially and legally, as I said, between the Administration of Justice and its human and material means. Royal Decree 1684/1987 on transfers to the Basque Country in the field of the provision of human and material resources also transfers the executive functions in the field of civil registration, as evidenced by the functions reserved by the State Administration with regard to civil registrations. Now the proposal leaves the Civil Registry in the same orbit as the human and material means at the service of the Administration of Justice in which we managed it since 1987, but we are told that we have quite fewer powers. It's like El Gatopardo, but in reverse, nothing changes now, but everything is different. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support this. We do not understand why the ministry adopts this position without communicating to the Sectoral Conference on Justice that what was agreed a year ago was a wet paper, processing it as a proposal instead of as a project, thus skipping all the preceptive reports and bringing to the House a simple defiant paper without any file, returning to the confusion that we seemed to have come out of on 22 February last year. Again playing to exhaust the times in order to justify situations as in which we now find ourselves. As I have already said, we will vote against the government initiative that hides behind this proposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u13	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u14	Thank you, President. Very late, ladies and gentlemen. In Spain there are political prisoners. Today, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez have been illegally deprived of their liberty for one hundred and twenty days and one hundred and three days since Generalitat Oriol Junqueras' vice-president and interior adviser Joaquim Forn have also been illegally deprived of their liberty. We demand, demand, and demand that they be released immediately whenever necessary. [[Applauds]] In Esquerra Republicana we defend a public civil registry free of charge, of proximity, respectful of all the co-official languages of the State other than Castilian, that defends and respects the competences of the autonomous communities and with a staff that has working conditions in accordance with the functions of public service that it performs. This has always been the position of the Republican Left and we will keep it as often as necessary in all proposals that are raised in relation to the Civil Registry. Today the People's Party, the party that gives support to the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, brings us a proposal for a law to the House that we call unbraved, unambitious. We do not understand such a text of ambition and will to transform the Civil Registry when, for many years, we have been waiting for a real reform of the Civil Registry not only of parliamentary groups but also of citizens in general, of civil registry workers themselves, of civil registry judges and of lawyers of the administration of justice. We continue with an outdated model of civil registry organization that does not respond to the reality of the country, the needs of citizens or other elements that should be present in this reform. The government of the People's Party has a lot of noise and few nuts, depending on the topic it prioritizes, in what affects people's day-to-day lives. The Civil Registry regulates, determines and certifies people's lives from birth to death, everything that happens in our life, when we get married, when we separate, and should therefore be adapted to the times that run. At present, however, nothing of what is happening in the Civil Registry responds neither to security nor often to certainty or proximity; almost never to proximity or the need to be close to the citizenry. It's a new disappointment. It is a brief proposal for reform of a small entity - other spokespersons have said - that is far from the needs for modernization of the Civil Registry and at the same time to guarantee not only the rights of citizens, but also those of civil registry workers. As I said before, it's an unbraved project, not to mention a coward. In addition, we hoped that you, Minister, would have presented a project with that famous 2011 reform. Why have you not brought in a bill and made it the parliamentary group that supports the Government to introduce it? In view of the fact that a State Covenant for Justice will not be possible, unless the ministry begins to do what it has to do. I repeat that the bill is neither ambitious nor responsive to the needs of a modern civil registry; it does not respond to the conditions of security, of guaranteeing the rights of citizens, of the rights of the civil registry judge, although it is true that in this reform it is no longer the judge who is in charge of the civil registry, nor the lawyers of the administration of justice or its officials. Minister, we demand you to make the modernization of the Civil Registry a real priority of the government and to stop spoiling the loss with reforms - if I may say so - of a small entity. They comply with their obligations and stop making fireworks with other reforms that are neither a demand for nor a priority for citizenship and that in many cases violate fundamental rights. Bring us a real bill and we commit ourselves to examining it, reviewing it and making contributions. If you meet the criteria I indicated at the beginning of my speech, you will surely, even if you are not interested in it, be able to obtain the support of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. In the meantime, we will vote against the consideration of this bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u15	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, a few months ago, the Courts approved the amendment of Law 15/2006, of Voluntary Jurisdiction, amendment that re-amended the Senate containing a further extension for the full entry into force of Law 20/2011, of the Civil Registry, postponing it one more year, until June 30, 2018. It is nothing other than the closeness of that date, on 30 June, which motivates the presentation by the People's Group of this bill that we are debating today. This unpredictability and lack of diligence on the part of the Government to implement the enforcement mechanisms of a law that, I insist, dates back to 2011 is something that we are already accustomed to; even the new civil registry office nomenclature brings to mind the NOJ, a new judicial office, also known as the VOJ, an old judicial office, since 2003 there has been no way to implement it throughout the national territory. Another recent example was the extension that you asked us to ensure that the notifications to the Public Prosecutor's Office did not come into force on the day following their receipt, because the new Public Prosecutor's Office is also not implemented and they lack the means to assume the rigour of the deadlines. In short, when the government presumes that it is management, I am afraid it does not concern the administration of justice, Minister. [[Applauds]] In the case of the Civil Registry, this cannot be said to be due to a lack of agreement. I think I am not mistaken if I say that there is a broad consensus on the model of civil registration that we want: a single civil registration. At least we want a single civil registry and not independent or plurinational registries, which is not incompatible with territorialized management. We certainly agree that it is a public civil registry, free of charge, based on the personal sheet or leaflet, modern and accessible to all citizens. It is true that the text presented preserves the nature of public service and free registration, which is appreciated. For a long time the shadow of doubt was planned or the unknown was left unsolved and there was talk of possible privatization and the imposition of taxes on citizens for their use. In connection with the above, it is established that finally it is the lawyers of the Administration of Justice who are in charge of the registration, which we support. If the Civil Registry model is unique, it seems reasonable that a national corps of officials should be responsible for its conduct, so that there are no differences in territorialized management. What we no longer find reasonable is that these professionals assume a new workload - the one they have been carrying out and the one the judges have been carrying out so far - without predicting how. We believe that this needs further clarification so that the registry offices do not arise collapsed as did the ground clause courts. There are another series of modifications that introduce that create some doubts for us. For example, we do not understand how they can marry the objectives of this modern, digital and universally accessible Civil Registry through the Network with the modification that they have introduced to end up maintaining this entire distributed network of offices, which certainly seems to be back to bet on face-to-face procedures. We believe that this distorts the spirit of Law 20/2011, which we recall was adopted with a high degree of consensus. I have read and compared several times the amendment of the sixth additional provision with the original text and I believe that this is an error and that there is actually no amendment. As nothing is changed, it remains such an expression that I am fascinated by its divine character: the Ministry of Justice will provide the applications that support this new and modern record. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it seems that we are being asked to do an act of faith, and we cannot do so. We cannot believe in the divine providence of the ministry - let it be said with all respect, Minister - because in line they tell us: Until the Ministry of Justice approves by ministerial order the entry into service of the computer applications, the seats will continue to be practiced in the books. I mean, we stay the way we are, with the analog civil registry sine die. This is not serious, ladies and gentlemen. We have already seen that they have needed several extensions to reach today; do not now ask us for an unlimited deadline, please. We are not going to block the consideration of this proposal for a law, because it is necessary to undertake the reform of the Civil Registry at once, but it must be shown that they have presented a somewhat dark and opaque text in some respects and disrespectful in the spirit of Law 20/2011 in others. It will have to be reviewed and I encourage you to seek consensus with the other groups on aspects of modernisation, digitisation, accessibility and deadlines. By the way, as far as digitisation is concerned, let me give you some advice. Perhaps it would be useful to review the composition of that advisory council for the innovation of justice that they have constituted in which they abound CEOs from Telefónica, Microsoft, Google, Flickr, Yahoo or Tuenti. All this is good, welcome be the talent, of course, but there is a lack of some legal operators who will then work with the applications they develop. Don't forget that computing and applications have to be put at the service of users and never the other way around, and our Civil Registry is something very serious to be approached only from the perspective of a wall or a timeline of a social network. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u17	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u18	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. My confederal group presented last October a bill on the subject that brings us here today, the Civil Registry, which comes to restore, through its articulation, a public and free civil registry. Neither can it be otherwise nor should it have any other ownership of this service, because we are talking about a record in which substantial and valuable information is collected and stored about the most important asset that this State, which is its people, has. Today the PP presents us with a proposal for a Civil Registration Act for consideration which, from our point of view, is absolutely insufficient. It does so, moreover, after the last few years we have been subjected to a sanatorium of shameful privatising attempts; from trying to convince us that a registrar of property is a public official to collate its privatization by a decree-law that was subsequently amended by the Constitutional Court. With the text that the Group of the European People's Party is bringing us today, it is in some way coming to amend itself. Being more precise, this text attempts to amend the legislative correlates - or at least one of them - of the ineffable former Minister Gallardón, who managed, as no one could ever even imagine, to bring all legal operators together, after leading numerous attacks on an essential public service, such as the Administration of Justice, during his stay in the ministry. Of those dusts, these muds. However, despite this pseudo-correction on the part of the People's Group and its Government, we also want to say that when a mistake is recognised, first of all, we apologize, and we also need to do it well and with all the consequences. You cannot forget to put in this text that today we are presented with the recovery of a service that is under the jurisdiction of the Civil Registry and that, to this day, it remains outsourced; services that should never have ceased to be under the competence of the public personnel of the Administration of Justice, which is the best guarantee for its proper functioning and vocation of service to the citizen. Since Mr Zapatero's government adopted a new regulation in this area in 2011, we have experienced years of unrest - to put it mildly - for the Civil Registry. In fact, bipartisanism has witnessed exceptions to numerous strikes, demonstrations, rallies, assemblies, hundreds of initiatives that, from different areas, have sought to make the opposition to this privatization of this type of essential and strategic services visible. It has been sad to see that the clarity with which they have identified the problems of this register, both with the staff of the Administration and with the citizens in general, has been inversely proportional to the opacity and lack of ideas with which the Government has led the negotiation on this issue. The meetings that the Ministry of Justice has had with the professionals have served nothing more than to contemporary the rectification of the Executive, that we are convinced that it has decided to turn back in this relation to its pretensions with the Civil Registry after some years, simply because there was no other way out, Mr Catalá. In short, it has not been by its own conviction, but forced by the majority feeling of both the legal operators and the social majority of this country. In this proposal they bring us talk about the maintenance of civil records in each judicial party and justices of the peace, but they do not develop contents. In addition, we insist that externalizations persist that must be recovered, such as marriages or nationalities. I'm going to stop at the nationalities, because we know of your obsession with migrant people. Today the president, M. Rajoy, at his stage as Minister of the Interior of the Aznarate raised the possibility that they would have to sign an integration contract in order to continue in Spain. This idea has materialized with his arrival in the Presidency through the implementation of the Spanish nationality test, which all he has achieved - believe it - is to put us in front of our own mirror as a country. It appears that, in accordance with that same obsession of the President, the Government has determined that the Civil Registry will no longer meet the requests of persons wishing to acquire Spanish nationality or who at least need information in this regard after meeting all the requirements of the law. Now these people are obliged to go to offices of lawyers or lawyers of payment - of course - to apply for their nationality or residence, when before this could be done free of charge and with all guarantees before the civil registers. This martial decision is already raising costs and complicating the formalization of applications for people who, although some of them are annoyed, already have enough roots in Spain, are an active part of our productive, social and cultural model and are contributing to our Social Security as any of us. They are therefore citizens of our country because here they live, here they work legally, here they consume and here they develop their life project. We will continue to bargain until the Civil Registry becomes a service for all, regardless of the place of birth, the condition or the color of the skin, as long as they are entitled to these services and in the same one the necessary tools are adapted at the time we live, to this first quarter already of the twenty-first century. We defend that it becomes a homeland like this, expanding rights and involving our people in the country that we want to build among all. All this is jeopardized when you, gentlemen of the PP, encourage segregationism from the Administration, when you make the mere collection effort prevail over the dignity of the people. You cannot act or manage the Government of the State as if it were a particular estate, which is what you have done. It is not clean, and much less democratic, to have the institutions and their services. This country does not belong exclusively to them. We will therefore not give our support to the Government or its failed Minister of Justice and will not vote in favour of its reform proposal because it is totally inadequate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u19	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing a proposal for a law of the People's Group that seeks to amend Law 20/2011 of 21 July, known as the Civil Registration Act. Although we are starting a new session, the truth is that we are delving into certain bad habits of the People's Group, or rather of the Government, and I am grateful for the Minister's presence to hear this debate. Why am I saying this? Because again, article 561 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which provides that all matters relating to the judicial plant, structure and vertebration of the courts, plan of staff, judicial secretaries, lawyers of the Administration of Justice or staff, must be subject to the criteria of the Judiciary. Once again, it hasn't been done like this. The intention is to amend a law that has not come into force. This law only knows or has experienced extensions. Well, it has also experienced a failure on the part of the government since the end of 2011 to take possession, finding itself, by the way, 100 percent digitization and a law approved with the consensus of all, a law that came out of that period of the last socialist government where, under the structure of the Strategic Plan for the Modernization of the Administration of Justice, it advanced in many of the areas, one of which was the Civil Registry. What's going on? During this time we have experienced extensions; at first with Minister Gallardón. Who was left with it? Notaries, property loggers... It's a mess. Since Mr Catalá arrived that has been clarified something and now it seems that it is the secretaries, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, but not in its entirety. We are told - we have listened very carefully to Mrs Moro - that what points out the statement of reasons on which it is a redefining of the model is the only thing that there is - nuances, elements necessary - in order to put into effect on 30 June of the same year Law 20/2011, law that will come into force on that date because with Law 4/2017, which amended Law 15/2015, that is, that of voluntary jurisdiction, we gave an oxygen ball - and we said that it would be the last - we asked them to put the batteries and to work because it is a law approved many years ago. It is necessary to know the model to see if we are really in a redefining, as the explanatory statement says, or, as many of the groups that have spoken and my group is going to do now, it is a Copernican change, a new model, which is nothing more than the model of 1957. Why? Because the new structure of the Civil Registry according to Law 20/2011 has very specific aspects: judicialization, registration for individuals and persons, single registration and digitized registration, as well as competition issues in autonomous matters because it was very respectful, for example, with languages. We are now being presented with a short draft that affects Articles 7, 20, 22, as well as the third paragraph of Article 58, but the game is in the provisions: additional provisions first, second and sixth; transitional - nothing more and nothing less - third, fourth, eighth, tenth and eleventh, which is new; and a new final provision. Let's go to the joint. As regards Article 7, one has not just been clarified, since the electronic signature recognised by qualified electronic signature is changed. I can assure you that by seeing the law governing electronic signatures I can't understand what that change is, but I'm sure the experts have some sort of nuanced explanation, although what no one is going to discuss with me is that so much if it's recognized as qualified serves the same purpose, it's to practice seats and issue certifications. Where's the core, the change? In Articles 20 and 22 and in the play of the provisions referred to above. Why? Because the current article 20 speaks of central and general consular offices, and now the classical name, Civil Registry; let's forget about central and consular offices, Civil Registry offices. What's going on? That we have abolished the general offices, which tended to have a single, digitized, heavily secured register, which provided security for citizens and was permissible for citizens; that is why it was a register for citizens and citizens. Why are we saying this? Because with the registration of Law 20/2011 it is not necessary for a citizen to have to go to any Civil Registry; he can carry out his life according to what is called the unique personal record and according to his personal code of conduct, which are the two determining and vertebrating elements of the new concept of Civil Registry, without the need to go to a physical headquarters. What's going on? Let's get you guys to take it. In article 22 they put all the parlors that exist where they already existed and let the judicial secretaries take it, except for the 9000 justices of the peace, because there is no judicialization there; there is no judicialization there, that does not play. What's going on? That we are talking about a civil registry of people that is no longer formed by the four paper books that we all know: birth, marriage, death, guardianship and other legal representations. With the new law, with Law 20/2011, what there is is a personal card that accompanies you from when it opens with your birth until it closes with your death. We threw all that away. Why? Because digitisation is not possible and it is not possible to talk about books, because the fourth transitional provision tells us that it will be digitized when the minister of duty issues the ministerial order; by the way, minister - I take advantage of it here - when will it be? This means a blank check, which is not good because citizens are demanding what they asked for in 2011, and that means that the change for de-judicialization, the only one, personalized, does not exist. They have loaded the model and we return to one as precarious as that of 1957, that model that we unanimously loaded. I could crumble every and every one of the precepts of the law, but I will end up with something that refers to a code that allowed us all to praise. Minister, if you continue along this path, we will apply Article 84 of the Code of Commerce from the Socialist Group: the grace and courtesy deadlines are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u21	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u22	Thank you, President. I wanted to take advantage of the debate to speak very briefly and thank the House for the debate on the consideration of this draft, which, as has been made clear, is a very important issue, it affects an essential public service, 45 million Spaniards, many foreigners and it has to do with such important matters of our daily life as the registration of births, deaths, marriages, guardianships, issuance of certificates for a wide variety of public services. It is certainly a relevant issue. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, and we have tried to make this clear by the People's Parliamentary Group, that we are trying to implement and develop Law 20/2011, the law that was adopted in this House and that for many different circumstances of long analysis has had successive extensions in its time of entry into force, successive extensions, but with the clear commitment of all to a single, public, free registration with a quality of information such as that that Spanish society needs at the present time. That is what is behind the bill we are debating today. The People's Parliamentary Group has in no way intended to change the competition field at all. If there is any doubt about this matter, it can certainly be clarified in the course of the amendments, because there is no intention to do so. It is true that today there are 4835, - to be exact - officials of the Administration of Justice working in the civil registers. It has been a social demand to maintain its content, its powers, its functions within the Administration of Justice, but we also try to be respectful of the judicialization because it will not be the judges who are responsible for the conduct of this civil registry but who can be the lawyers of the Administration of Justice who have their capacity, competence and training in this matter greatly accredited. The 7690 courts of peace that exist in Spain can also cooperate effectively in this regard because, ladies and gentlemen, there are sixteen million people in Spain who live in localities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, who are not party leaders and have the right - by different circumstances, some by age or technological incapacity - to continue using traditional services. Compatibilizing a telematic record with a physical presence in the territory seems to us to be the most appropriate at this time. This is a demand of workers, professional associations, trade unions, autonomous communities, municipalities. It seems to us that progress in this direction, which is what the proposed law seeks, has all the meaning at the moment and is perfectly compatible with what your ladies and gentlemen have shown: a telematic, modern, 21st century, advanced, unique, public, free of charge. All this is part of the draft that is being proposed, and that is why we are asking you to take it into consideration and that in the parliamentary procedure we fulfil our obligation as Members, we make as many amendments as necessary and we are able to reach the month of June - that is why it is also a proposal for a law and not a draft, in order to reach that month - with a modification and with a quality public service in the service of the citizen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u23	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TRANSPARENCY IN PRE-DISPOSED CONTRACTION, AMENDING ACT No. 1/2007 OF 16 NOVEMBER, APPROVING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE GENERAL LAW FOR THE DEFENCE OF CONSUMER AND USERS AND OTHER COMPLEMENTARY LAWS, ACT No. 7/1998 OF 13 APRIL, OF GENERAL CONTRACTION CONDITIONS, ACT No. 50/1980, OF 8 OCTOBER, OF SECURITY CONTRACTION AND THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION No. 4/2015 OF 23 OCTOBER, APPROVING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE VALUE MARKET LAW. [[File number 122/00142]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u24	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the promotion of transparency in the procurement arrangements, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007 of 16 November, approving the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws, Law 7/1998 of 13 April, on general conditions of recruitment, Law 50/1980 of 8 October, on insurance contracts and the Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act. Mrs Tundor Moreno has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u25	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of confidence, the lack of transparency and corruption, the paralysis of the system and the legal uncertainty generated in the citizenry make it abundantly clear that today the Socialist Group is presenting this proposal for a law for greater transparency in the procurement provided as a guarantee of efficiency,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u26	Quiet, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u27	... prevention and protection of consumers, as well as effective management of public resources, improving competition and confidence in companies and the Spanish economy. One of the main causes or factors of this crisis, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly pointed out, has been the lack of transparency or abuse of recruitment, which means, no more or no less, a direct violation of the law and the proper functioning of our institutions, which undermines our trust as a society and hinders the social and economic progress that we deserve. The Socialist Party, in line with its historical responsibility, as it did with the first consumer protection law in 1984, presents this bill as a model for the social protection of the citizen, of clear European inspiration. Political transparency, together with public or administrative transparency, must go hand in hand with transparency in procurement. In this way, the regulatory recognition of transparency implies, without any exception, the perfect harmonization of the general interests of the nation with the various legal assets under guardianship. Therefore, this adaptation to European Union law results in a deepening of the constitutional mandate for consumer protection, the defence and improvement of the competition of our companies, their value as a brand and social reputation and the strengthening of greater legal certainty that favours the effective judicial protection of the set of rights and interests protected. For socialists, transparency must be the cornerstone on which the public administration's actions in the area of public procurement turn. We therefore present this proposal for a law, in order to promote the transparency of contracts and to protect consumers from unfair clauses, so as to ensure that they have understood not only the general meaning of the agreement, but also its legal and economic scope. An impetus for clarity in the procurement arrangements in which judges and courts may apply an ex officio review of whether the terms of the contract ensure that the contractor has understood their terms including risks; a review of both face-to-face and remote or electronic procurement, whether public or private. All this for the legal protection of consumers and users. As we learn from the consequences of previous errors and failures, all clauses that link the contract to the will of the employer or that lack reciprocity, limit the rights of the consumer or impose disproportionate or undue guarantees on him, the burden of proof among others. Socialists, consumer associations and citizens in general want contracts to be drafted in a simple and effective way, not only the benefits of the product acquired but also its risks and consequences, as well as the full meaning of the conditions or requirements that arise. In addition, notaries and registrars may not register contracts that include unfair terms or whose consequences or risks have not been adequately explained to the consumer or customer. If this obligation is not fulfilled, and without the need for harm to the user, the specific clause must be declared abusive. We want companies to collaborate with the Administration in its implementation or to compete to be transparent in the same way that many already do, for example, with obtaining ecological badges. For the Socialist Party, transparency in public procurement is our goal as a principle of legality, as a new fundamental value, the safeguarding of the maximum legal protection of consumers, an unreplaceable requirement that puts entrepreneurs and users on par. The intention of this law is to add transparency as a fundamental value and to give transversal light to all laws. Its application will affect all types of contracts, both public and private, as well as online purchases by introducing transparency control as a rule of law control that professionals or entrepreneurs predispose to the consumer, as well as implying that any clause that could be regarded as abusive may be pursued ex officio. The judicial protection of the principle of transparency must be a basic right of consumers and medium and small businesses, since we must recognise the value of transparency as a key to the modern protection system that brings us closer to the criteria of the European Union. In the present draft law, the lines characterizing this transcendental reform, a determined and firm commitment to the value of transparency, which, as a germ of social change, opens us a new era of necessary consensus on the new values that will allow us to deepen and renew our founding commitment to a social and democratic state of law for the benefit of all citizens. I therefore hope and hope that you will support this initiative presented by the Socialist Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Both the reading of the very broad explanatory statement of this parliamentary initiative and the defence of it, which has just been made by the Socialist MEP, Mrs Tundir Moreno, highlight the impetus for transparency as a requirement of a modern society in its relationship with the different administrations and also in that of citizens as consumers and customers of public services or contracted privately. This consideration uses as its main reference a royal decree-law of 2007, which in turn updated a varied set of legislative and regulatory texts. Since that year, different rules have been incorporated into our legal system which have updated the texts drawn up at the time. In addition, the European directives and judgments of the European courts have been transposed, from which new requirements have been incorporated or corrected in Community law of the European Union, which provide greater protection for consumers. Spain has done its duty in this area, and it should be remembered that in the spring of 2014 the General Courts adopted profound adaptations with important objectives that have allowed the strengthening of the legal certainty of each and every consumer, increasing the protection of the rights of consumers and users and also the removal of obstacles to the European internal market on which we belong and which entails irrefutable obligations. This initiative rejects the changes made under that 2014 law and all that have been introduced gradually to transpose with criteria of harmonization with all the countries of the Union, which in the case of Spain has gone even a little further, extending the obligations on the preliminary information to be received by a consumer by clarifying the obligations for service or product providers and pointing out the consequences of non-compliances regarding transparency and the lack of adequate information. Finally, this initiative could lead to legal uncertainty because of its involution and disorder towards the rights that citizens have already legally guaranteed and that are the product of an effort to which organizations and associations that have made a unique contribution with their work and tenacity have distinguished themselves in the defence of consumers and users. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u31	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the consumer and user associations that are accompanying us today from the rostrum as representatives of this active and demanding civil society whose mobilisation is really at the heart of the proposed law that we are now debating. Confidence is the basis of social life; or, in reverse: social relations of all kinds, also those of a heritage nature, can only be fully developed in a reliable, transparent space, without opacities or equivocal elements. The nineteenth codes based on individualism sought to establish confidence in legal relations through the requirements of good faith, but obviously this subjective interpretation has been overcome by the requirements of mass trafficking. In order to overcome this deficit, we must move on to addressing confidence from an objective point of view as a result of the establishment of a transparent framework for relations in which everything is in sight, nothing is hidden or distorted. In modern societies we can distinguish between founding principles, which often occupy a place of honour in the legal architecture: freedom, equality, pluralism. And functional principles, which serve for those to attain their fullness. There is no doubt that in a prompt and desirable reform of our Constitution, transparency should appear to occupy a privileged space as a functional principle of broad spectrum. But as long as we achieve that constitutional reform, it is very positive that we take the step that is now being proposed and take this proposal into consideration. Compromis will vote in favour, although we have already announced that in the subsequent process of amendments we will raise some issues in which we believe that it could have been more courageous now because we believe that it is necessary to extend the mandatory nature of transparency also to employers, insurers and financial institutions. In any case, it's a good step and we're going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u33	Thank you, President. The main opposition group presents us with a text to admit that it talks about guarantees and that it talks about transparency. That's what they're always gonna find us in. To demand guarantees and to demand transparency, always: in the field of consumption and in the other areas. But my question is very simple, ladies and gentlemen socialists: what guarantees do we have for the citizens when the very government we are asking for these guarantees and this transparency is the same government that rewards the agents who have ousted hundreds of peaceful citizens for wanting to vote; the same government that no one has and imprisons the main ones responsible for disarticulating a jihadist cell; the same government that fails to fulfil each and every one of the Council of Europe's recommendations on judicial independence; the same government that has - indeed, with the invaluable help of the country's supporters as a mental desert, that is, citizens - that many Spanish citizens hate me more for wanting to decide the political future of the country in which I want my children to grow up decently, than for spending our money on rescuing banks that have destroyed us; or losing the seat on the European Union's Information Committee for the lack of independence of public television in the country. That's RTVE. Not of TV3!, ladies and gentlemen: of Spanish Radio Television. Is it all right to maintain the unity of Spain, even if democracy, freedom and coexistence are charged for this? Is it all right, even if for this you have to hide your shames when Amnesty International points out to you as a repressive state or when The Economist tells you that you are only one tenth away from being a full democracy? How long are you going to see that nothing happens here when what happens is that all fundamental rights are being laid down?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u34	Mrs. Nogueras i Camero has to go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u35	I'm done. Yes, the issue is guarantees and transparency...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u36	Mrs. Nogueras, one second. When the Presidency calls one of your ladies and gentlemen to the question, I am calling it to the question. And you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u37	I'm done. We hope and hope that you, especially the socialists and the comrades of Podemos, will have the desire to finish for real and not just mouthpieces with this rotten manure. And now let the next one come up and talk like this country isn't falling back into the darkest pit. Thank you and free political prisoners!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u39	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The proposal for a law seeks to bring domestic law into line with Directive 93/13 and the progressive case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on transparency control in order to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States on unfair terms in contracts concluded between professionals and consumers and, therefore, to strengthen the transfer as a perfect harmonization of general interests with the legal goods of consumers under guardianship; the improvement of the competition of businesses, their brand value and social reputation; legal certainty based on the principles of contractual justice; and the effective judicial protection of consumers and users as a superior good. Having said that, and in view of the fact that the above-mentioned regulation deals with aspects relating to certain contractual obligations of certain contracts in the field of consumer and user protection, we do not deny that the State has jurisdiction to incorporate into domestic law precisely those provisions which, by virtue of their nature of commercial and civil binding law, have been reserved for it under Article 149.1.6a, 8a and 11a of the Constitution, providing, however, that the Autonomous Communities will have jurisdiction to enforce those contractual rules without preventing their intervention in the field of consumer and user protection by granting it the block of constitutionality. It should also be borne in mind that a multitude of financial products, such as preference clauses, swaps or subordinated obligations, challenged by consumers before the courts and the result of which has been their nullity, have shown ineffective regulation, and therefore it is appropriate to monitor transparency in general and, in particular, of the massive contracts in which there is normally adherence to a number of conditions laid down, especially in financial services. The European Community's Consumer Protection Cooperation Regulation 2004 has strengthened the application of consumer law throughout the Union. However, a high level of non-compliance with key Union consumer protection rules persists in the main consumer markets and the current framework should therefore allow for a robust and uniform implementation of all these rules in the Union environment. This proposal for a law, on the one hand, transcends and improves what so far was the right to consumer information in Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007, which adopts the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users, since this right to information was linked only to certain aspects, such as the protection of health and safety; the prevention of the risks of the use of the product according to the characteristics, duration and persons to whom it is intended; the proper packaging of chemicals, etc. On the other hand, we note some material shortcomings or shortcomings in the text of the proposed law under the cover of transparency and its preventive protection, both in terms of cooperation between State authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation and in terms of greater clarification of certain unfair clauses, burden of proof and others. In addition, we will also have to pay attention to the new regulation of the Securities Market Act as a result of the transposition of the Mifid II Directive for the sake of transparency. For all these reasons and for the sake of respect for legality and rigour, our group will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but we also announce that if it is finally dealt with as a bill, we will try at the amendment stage to clarify the shortcomings that may exist, both of a competitive and material nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law seeks to incorporate into our legislation all the case law that has been provided in the field of consumer protection, both from the Court of Justice of the European Union and from our Supreme Court, in order to guarantee consumer protection on the basis of two basic principles: one is the detailed and differentiated regulation of transparency control, which until now was non-existent in our legal system, in our positive law; the other is the effective protection of consumer rights through judicial control of the general conditions of procurement. To this end, as mentioned above, the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007 of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other complementary laws are amended. As I say, it is remarkable that for the first time the two aspects of the control of abuse are differentiated in law: on the one hand, content control, which focuses on the right balance between the rights and obligations of the parties deriving from the contract, but on the other hand, transparency control, which refers to the material understanding by the consumer of the regulation laid down. It should be recalled that this transparency check was already developed by the Supreme Court in its famous judgment of 9 May 2013 of the ground clauses. This control is recognized as a legal norm and as a general principle of law, i.e. as a public policy guideline to be used to interpret the rest of the rules. And it is conceived in the plane of material understanding, that is, it goes beyond purely formal or grammatical. It is not enough for consumers to know the general meaning of the clauses, but they must also understand the legal and economic scope of the commitments they enter into. Other developments in the project include the incorporation of ex officio control of unfair clauses by judges and courts - already recognized in the case law of the ECJ - and the determination of their scope of application. For the first time there is a specific regulation on the ineffectiveness of the unfair clause - so that it does not have any effect on the consumer - which is articulated on the principles of non-binding for the consumer and of dissuasive effect for the consumer. But the proposed law also amends other legislation: on the one hand, Law 7/1998, on general conditions of employment. This is a much broader area than consumer protection. The aim here is to extend transparency control to recruitment between entrepreneurs, so that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs also benefit from it. Then, as the sole requirement is that the employer, in order to have access to this maximum degree of protection, must prove his status as a mere adherent to the conditions, that is, that he must prove that they were given to him without the possibility of negotiation. The problem is that this aspect of the proposition is in conflict with the majority doctrine of the Supreme Court, with which we must discuss it and develop it in the presentation. Law 50/1980 on the Insurance Contract is also amended to ensure that the contract, in its entirety, is also subject to transparency control both in the delimitation of the covered risk and in the rights of the insured person. We fully agree on this. Finally, the Securities Market Act 4/2015 is amended to extend transparency control to retail customers participating in the securities market. Anyone who has attended the cash crisis will understand that this is absolutely necessary. In short, we generally welcome the proposal for a law put forward by the Socialist Group, and no one can deny that it is necessary to adapt to our law the case law on consumers, both the Supreme and the Court of Justice. However, since the proposal opts for the more protectionist concept of transparency control, it says that any clause that does not automatically overcome such control will be considered abusive, regardless of the rest of the elements of the contractual relationship, regardless of the imbalance of rights, the existence of harm or not to the consumer, etc., and this could sometimes lead to absurd conclusions, so we will put forward amendments. As regards the extension of transparency control to recruitment between employers, we understand and share the Socialist Group's concern about the weak position of SMEs in negotiating with large companies. It is a concern that we have demonstrated in the presentation of the Contract Law, in our own Law of lateness, however, as I say, the approach is contrary to the doctrine of the Supreme, so we will have to polish it throughout the presentation. Finally, it would be useful to think of a normative aspect that was not addressed in the proposed law, which was that if judges incorporated ex officio control into a rule of material law, it would be necessary to adapt the procedural rules, in particular the Civil Prosecution Act. There is something else that we will be proposing in the presentation, but in any case we will vote in favour of the consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u42	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Tundor, the Socialist Group's proposer, is a Member for Malaga as I am, and I am sure she regretted, as I regret, that there has been a new macho murder today in our province, in La Viñuela. To talk about consumer law in a country like ours, which has experienced significant social suffering in recent years as a result of abusive clauses, is a very important issue, but it is as important as to highlight that in this country today women are still being killed simply because of being killed, so I would like to take advantage of the rostrum to transfer my condolences and those of my parliamentary group to the families and loved ones of the victim and to remind you that the State pacts if they are not accompanied by sufficient budget headings are simply agreements that can reassure consciences but not agreements that can solve problems. [[Applauds]] I also take this opportunity to greet the consumer associations present, in particular Adicae, who has done more work in recent years on this subject and who has been supporting us throughout our parliamentary work since we arrived at Congress. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting to us for consideration a proposal for a law to promote transparency in the procurement arrangements. As you can imagine, the first element is to enhance the value of transparency in a context such as Spanish, which has been marked precisely by the lack of transparency and the existence of abuses of power and even abusive asymmetry. At the outset, we can only welcome the initiative, it seems to us that it contains positive elements that must be highlighted: The normative structure in relation to these matters is clarified, there are improvements in the question of the contractual ineffectiveness of the unfair clauses, introducing the nullity of the effects of full law, also the need for the restitution effect and the equalization between face-to-face and distance contracting. There are improvements in transparency control, especially in the question of the material comprehensibility of the commitments made, i.e., it is not enough with grammatical and formal understanding, but it is necessary to take into account the legal and economic scope of what is being signed, it is not appropriate to know how to read what is being signed, but to understand what is being signed. There are positive elements in terms of transparency control that must be extended to all clauses in the contract and not only to its essential content and that, like the above, extend to face-to-face and distance contracting. And there is content control, so that they must be ex officio applicable by judges and courts, but the initiative, despite welcoming it, is incomplete, unambitious and leaves out issues that should necessarily be addressed. First of all, substantive issues: That transparency be turned into a functional element to the heritageization of the brand Spain, as is done in the explanatory statement. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, transparency is a value in itself, a citizen's demand and not just of consumers and a cornerstone of our societies in the twenty-first century. Moreover, it makes little sense to try to use it to enhance the Spanish brand when most abusive clauses have been applied by Spanish companies to Spanish citizens. Therefore, we feel uncomfortable with that injustice. It's no big deal, but we don't like it. Second of all, you're late. It is late because it is the partial transposition of a directive which was adopted in 1993. Twenty-five years to transpose a directive, during many of which it was socialist governments that were in power and could have legislated so that these clauses had not been included in the contracts. We would have saved ourselves the preferences, the ground clauses, the subordinate obligations, the abuses of power of energy companies, telecommunications, electricity and financial companies. We would have saved it if they had transposed it when they were in the government their - this - directive. It is just as I am a misconception and had something to do with making sure that many of the ministers of his Government did not end up occupying, through the phenomenon of revolving doors, the boards of directors of the companies they had to regulate, avoiding such abusive clauses. [[Applauds]] What do we think is missing? They make the regulation of the unfair clause lighter than that of the directive itself and that of the current Spanish regulation. If they try to regulate, at least maintain the levels of demand that were being demanded from Europe. Secondly, consumer law, like labour law, is of a tuitive nature. A tuitive regulatory framework means that it seeks to protect the weakest party. Labour law is articulated to protect workers in the relationship with employers and consumer law is articulated to try to protect consumers from businesses. Well, it seems that all this has been forgotten, obviating any mention of a basic principle of consumer law, which is in doubt for the consumer, that is, that in case of doubt the legal system always has to be interpreted in the most favourable way for the consumer. It appears in Article 5 of the directive and not in its proposal for a law. If they have been forgotten, we will amend it in the course of amendments. Another fundamental thing that is forgotten is the accession contracts. How can transparency be regulated without tying accession contracts? It is a basic thing, because basically it is the land paid for the abuse of position of power on the part of companies, which can happily change the balance of burdens and obligations in their favour. To put it in an understandable way, the rights of accession are what in my house is called a dish of lentils, or take them or leave them, and that is precisely why we need to legislate, in order to prevent them from being used. Finally - I conclude, Madam President - the definition of consumer. That is to say, that they focus only on the consumer and do not take into account the relations of the big companies, of the big oligopolies of this country with the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, with the self-employed, with the professionals, which are not taken into account when protecting them. So the proposal comes late, it is incomplete, less bad it comes!, and even if it has taken twenty-five years, we will vote in favour of its processing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u44	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García Cañal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the spokesman for the Socialist Group, it seems that the Spanish consumers and users were not protected until this bill arrived and nothing has been done in the recent years of the People's Party's government. It is more than paradoxical that in this proposed law, with a very long and extensive explanatory statement, the drafters of the text did not refer to Law 3/2014 which amended and updated the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007, of consumers and users, and which was amended less than four years ago in the X Legislature. Nor does it make any reference to recent legislation in force - which also exists - either European or Spanish, in the other laws it proposes to amend, such as insurance or securities contract laws. If we add to this that it is intended to legislate in violation of European legislation on the insurance contract and the securities market, it gives us an idea of the serious shortcomings of this proposal for a law. With regard to the amendment of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users - first and second articles of the proposal - the principle of transparency, which is inspired by the proposed law with which we are all in agreement, is already reflected in the current wording of the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users reformed by the People's Party Government in 2014. Article 80.1 sets out the requirements to be met by the clauses to the procurement provisions: 'a) Concretion, clarity and simplicity in drafting, with the possibility of direct understanding, without reference to texts or documents which are not provided before or at the same time as the conclusion of the contract, and to which, in any case, express reference should be made in the contract document'. In the processing of this law in 2014 to the Socialist Parliamentary Group the concept of transparency presented by the Government of the People's Party should have seemed appropriate, since it did not submit any amendments. Today we have extensive and repetitive articles that, in addition to other identical articles in the current text, will only make the law more grievous for the delight of the busapleitos. If that were not enough, the proposed text removes the current Article 83, incorporated in 2014 and following the mandate of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union of 14 June 2012, which fully transposes Article 6 on the nullity of the unfair clauses of the Community Directive. Article 83 reads as follows: 'Abusive clauses shall be null and void. For this purpose, the judge, after hearing the parties, shall declare null and void the abusive clauses contained in the contract, which, however, shall remain binding on the parties on the same terms provided that it can survive without such clauses.' The elimination of this Article is therefore a clear breach of Community rules on the protection of consumers and users. With regard to the amendment of Law 50/1980 on Insurance Contract, which is the third article of the proposal, the second and third paragraphs proposed in this article and which contains the inclusion of transparency control in the insurance contract, it is totally contrary to Community directives which expressly prohibit such control by the Member States. Article 21 of the Solvency II Directive 2009 on insurance states: Member States shall not require prior approval or systematic disclosure of the general and particular conditions of insurance policies. The transparency claimed is already transferred and reflected in regulations adopted very recently by the Government of the People's Party, which surely has been ignored by the lost drafters, because they neither mention it nor take it into account, and I will mention it: Articles 96, 118 and 119 of Law 20/2015, on management and solvency in insurance and reinsurance entities; or articles ranging from 122 to 126 of Royal Decree 1060, also of the year 2015, which develops the law. They have also been robbed of the recent European Union legislation that has legislated on insurance, such as the recent or most recent Regulation 1469 of the year 2017, the so-called IPID regulation, or Regulation 1286 of the year 2014, called the KID regulation. This article is therefore also contrary to Community law. With regard to the amendment of the Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 on the securities market, which is the fourth article, the rules of conduct laid down in the Securities Market Act are a consequence of the transposition into our legal order of Directive 2004/39 EC on the markets in financial instruments, the so-called MiFID I; and the same will happen when the MiFID II is transposed into the Securities Market Act which, by the way, was approved last week by this plenary its consideration. Neither in the MiFID I nor in the MiFID II, nor in the case law of the High Court of Justice of the European Union interpreting it, has the concept of transparency of the markets in financial instruments been identified with the concept of transparency for the purposes of the directive on unfair terms, which is the wrong basis for the case law making the proposal for a law. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, this initiative suffers from major defects of impossible correction; firstly, because it ignores and disregards the current legislation, which has been amended from 2014 to 2017, and which guarantees and more adequately contemplates the measures proposed; secondly, because it is contrary to Community legislation, directives, regulations, judgments of the court, which has already moved to Spanish legislation; and thirdly and lastly, because it introduces great legal uncertainty which can cause serious property damage to consumers and users, businesses and professionals. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u47	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the public recovery of toll freeways. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u48	Good afternoon. I am now defending the PNL that we are presenting today from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, by telling them that it would be an initiative that any Member of the Socialist Party, of Citizens, of the Basque Nationalist Party or of any formation of this House could bring here; and I say this from any Member, as long as this Member was not very close to the tentacles of the builders, of the interests of those companies in which today, unfortunately, the highways are in our country. I also say this because in Spain we have a huge historical anomaly that has to do with two concrete moments in our history in which the motorways have unfortunately been badly designed. A first moment has to do with Francoism, with predemocracy, a time when many of the motorways we have today were privatized, and a second moment has to do with the People's Party, with this which we have known as the Hope Plan, the Aguirre Hope Plan, the Alvarez-Cascos Plan, the plan in which Mariano Rajoy was already in, the plan of the broken motorways, the radials, the plan of the People's Party, which had told us in electoral campaign that he was not going to rescue them but that he has already rescued them today and we have paid them again with the money of everyone in our country. This is the plan of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] But we have more anomalies: we are the country that has the most kilometres of motorways within the European comparison. Another anomaly: we do not have a single highway management, we have two systems. A management that serves strictly sensu private interests, and we do not say so, says the judges, for example, in relation to the M-30 of Gallardón, regarding which they clearly say that the contract served to shield the profits of private companies. We insist, we do not say it; the courts say it. And another management has to do with something fundamental like the right of mobility of the citizens of this country, which is in theory what we should attend to. We also have a distortion, and it is that the motorways have been designed in an invertebrate way and also generating different models and comparative aggravations in attention to the territory in which the different people live. And finally, we have a march of identity Spain that has to do with - and this is only Spanish - with which the shareholdership of the concessionaires that manage these companies by 72% is in the hands of the builders - single case -; to speak clearly, it is in the hands of corruption, of that form of government that has characterized the People's Party. Casually, they are always the same companies, they are the corruptions with alleged character of the People's Party, they are the corruptions that appear in the papers of Bárcenas: Florentino Pérez, Villar Mir, Francisco González, the Carceller family, Loureda, the March family, the Albertos, obviously the Koplowitz, Fluxà, Alemany, Reynés and could follow. It is a small number of families that have become builders, that have been made with a new business that are the highways in our country. Therefore, we are also talking about corruption, so this is an extremely important issue. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we may think that this initiative speaks of motorways, but it is not so: it speaks of the public interest, it speaks of citizenship, it speaks fundamentally of the common good, because our people are tired of seeing how they plunder it, how they deprive it of their right to mobility, dependence, health, the education of our daughters, it is tired of seeing how they told us that they were not going to rescue the radials and now they are privatizing them again and the Minister tells us that he is going to missell them for EUR 700 million. Do you know what this is called? It's called a scam. We rescue the radials with the public, with the money of all, to end up giving them to the corrupters of the People's Party. I would like to ask the Members of the House a direct question. Ladies and gentlemen of this House, who is going to vote in favour of this new scam? Are they going to give back the freeways rescued with the public? Are they going to vote again in favour of socializing the losses? We say loud and clear that we are not going to vote in favour of squandering or plundering public resources, especially because this brings with it what you already know: cuts. And we make them one more proposal: let us not leave this initiative here, let us go out and defend the initiative in a campaign in networks looking for signatures to paralyze the latrociny that the People's Party wants to commit. I tell you this because this initiative is cross-cutting, it's talking about the self-employed, it's talking about the workers who travel every day, it's talking about the ecologists, who have to say loud and clear what the right model is to be able to finance highways in our country, it's talking about transporters, it's talking about consumers and users, it's talking about the people of our people; that's why we have to talk about this. [[Applauds]] And speaking of scams, we have a very severe one. In addition to the gifts of the People's Party, which we rescue with the public and then socialize the losses, I will give you some examples, because they are pirates of the public. It's a very juicy business. For example, regarding the AP-9, Galician highway, which is in the hands of a company, Audasa S.A., do you know what the benefits of Audasa, S.A. are? 50 %. One in two euros is a profit. I suppose you know what the average profit of Spanish companies is: 7%. I'm going to give you another piece of information, that of Inditex, a Galician multinational too. Do you know what its benefit is, being its management much more complex than that of the Galician motorways? Do you know which one it is? Exactly 14%. Therefore, we are talking about a full-handed business, a succulent business that the People's Party has allowed with its men and women, the Gallardons and the Hopes. I'll be done soon enough. We are facing a minority battle against the great social majority. This initiative talks about part of the problem, it talks about rescuing for the public now the motorways, the broken ones and those whose concession ends, but we have to have a debate after, the most relevant, which is how we finance these motorways and how we make it compatible with the right to mobility and above all with the environment. This is the key to what we have to do a posteriori. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the form of government based on corruption, on the builders has ended; stop looking at the past of the People's Party and, above all, stop looking at the future in order to achieve future revolving doors, because the fact that you again privatize the rescued and broken highways is not explained but as a way of looking for a next chair in Abertis or in private concessions that do succulent business. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u49	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes by the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. If this crazy demagogy were to come into effect, Spain would be ruined all expectations for the private initiative to finance and continue the construction of new and necessary infrastructures. You despise the calamitous consequences of charging all citizens in full, via the General Budgets of the State, the progress, the construction and the putting into service of infrastructures of general interest, a capital that was not previously had when it was chosen, I think, rightly, by the concessional system to advance the execution of essential public works, but which is not available now either because our financial resources are very limited and the needs are growing more and more. Public-private financing formulas are not negotiations for illicit enrichment, but legal mechanisms to advance public works beyond what budgets would allow for for the benefit of the economy, employment and general welfare. Thanks to this we already have motorways, ports, etc., that would otherwise not be useful to the citizens and facilitating the progress of Spain. The concessional mechanism exists throughout Europe and is used in all countries of our environment, regulated by European law. It is not a question, Mrs Díaz Pérez, of any tentacular contubernium to favor the rich, but of a standard model to improve on such a decisive matter. For example, the current Juncker Plan, which promotes extraordinary infrastructure in the European Union, is based on a model of public-private collaboration similar to our concessions. In Spain, if we apply the Podemos doctrine, we would be stuck, while in the rest of Europe they advance in the gradual modernization of their infrastructures, which is equivalent to having more competitiveness, more jobs and more future. Spain is no exception to other countries, where the tendency is precisely to use the toll resource by users of high capacity roads; this is the case for France, Italy and Portugal, among others. But the trend does not stop there, even in large cities such as Stockholm and London, the requirement for quota payments to move through certain urban areas is already being applied. With regard to the criticisms about the rescue of the radials, you, Lords of Podemos, can investigate similar matter in your co-religionary, the Mayor of Madrid, Mrs Carmena, whose town hall has just contributed - that is, before administrative scambalache - 10 million euros to a concessionaire, Bici Madrid, in bankruptcy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u51	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are more than one and a half million self-employed persons in Spain and there are 1 300 000 SMEs; self-employed persons and SMEs account for 99.8% of the total number of enterprises and generate 10 million jobs. All these self-employed people and all these SMEs would love for the government to offer them the same type of business that it offers to certain companies. That is, a concession - I say adjectives - nice, friendly, of various sections of motorways. If there are benefits, the company takes them. Great, there's no problem. If there are losses, nothing happens, we pay them among all, we heal the company among all and then start again: new award To play! It's a perfect business. Self-employed people and SMEs would be happy to have them make proposals like these every day. Therefore, Compromís will vote in favour, of course. First, because the rescued motorways will not be privatized again and, second, so that new concessions will not be extended that end. For example, Aumar, the A-7, which the Valencians have been paying for fifty years. Benefit this year? Plus 19%, 135 million coming out of the pocket of all citizens, which makes our businesses less competitive than those in other places where they don't pay for highways. It is a proposal of common sense, reasonable: that all Spaniards be equal, that there are not some who pay and others who do not pay. I am - and I finish - very interested in the result of the vote, above all because I know what the Socialist Party will vote for, but also Citizens, to know if these patriots, who are always waving flags but then rescue and prolong by watching over the interests of the big companies, are addressing the common sense and making true patriotism, that is, that all Spaniards are equal and that we are watching for the general interests of all Spaniards and not for the particular interests of some big companies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u53	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u54	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week I must remind you of an abnormal situation that is being experienced throughout the state; this week Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez have been in prison for political reasons, simply for their political ideas, and Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Forn have been in exile for the same 100 days, as well as the President of the Generalitat and five other advisers. [[Applauds]] From here my memory and my recognition; we will have them present as long as this injustice lasts. Having said that, we have tabled an amendment to improve the GNP we are analysing, with one objective. It seems good to us, it seems fair to us, it seems necessary not to extend the concessions that are already won or about to win, which will obviously be completely amortized. We are not going to question why that funding system was used at the time, but we understand that certain rapid routes, with certain benefits and alternatives to other existing ones, do not necessarily have to be free. It seems to us that they are public, and that is why we are proposing a system, the system of the vineyard, which allows the public sector to raise resources that must obviously go to the maintenance of these routes and the improvement and investment of other alternative routes. Although the non-legislative proposal is not accepted and we understand that this debate can be postponed for another time - we wanted it today - we are going to support the non-enlargement of the concessions of AP-7 and AP-2 and their management in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Very late for everyone and everyone. I speak on behalf of the Republican Left to announce the vote in favour of this non-law proposal. I want to start my speech by coming back to 30 November 2016, when, with just a month's walk from the Republican Left legislature of Catalonia, he asked the Minister of Development about the future of toll freeways and the then possible rescue of Madrid's radials. We did not get any clear answers from the Minister, and the Madrid radials, like the Castor project or the Pertús tunnel, have been rescued with public money, ergo with money of all, a further sample of the gazapo that involved the planning of infrastructures in the middle of the era of the ball and the real estate boom, as well as of the State's irresponsibility to link the economic viability of these infrastructures to the State's property responsibility. In Catalonia this does not come from news; in fact, in Catalonia we know perfectly well what this model of motorways implies since in 2014, for example, the motorways with explicit toll - that is, the barrier toll - collected 1722 million euros, of which 967 million euros - that is, 56% - were collected in Catalonia. In other words, more than half of the money collected on all state toll highways was collected in Catalonia. These are in most cases motorways that have already been widely paid for by their users and are now part of the huge revenue gear of concessionary companies, concessionary companies such as Abertis, for example, which has closed 2017 with profits of 735 million euros but to which the Ministry of Development is unable to demand compensation for the bad service offered by Iberpistas, a company owned by Abertis, in the snows of last January 5, 6 and 7. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party government, that is to be strong with the weak and weak with the powerful. The final result is already known to all, the concessionaire always wins and the citizenry always pays; they privatize profits and obviously socialize losses. We have tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal which we hope will be accepted by the proposing group. This amendment seeks to go in line with the text of the motion tabled by Esquerra, where the freezing of toll rates was unanimously approved until the expiry of the granting of the operation of motorways. Toll freeways have affected not only the quality and standard of living, but also the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. We are therefore faced with a claim that is historic in Catalonia. This is an urgent matter, and it is not that it has become urgent today or that it is urgent within a year, but it has been urgent for a long, long time. The Parliament of Catalonia approved a proposal for a law for the creation of a rescue fund for our tolls. This initiative that I am talking about was taken into consideration by Congress in 2008; however, the PSOE and the PP agreed once again - nor is it new - to extend the deadlines for amendments to the bill, so that the initiative fell with the end of the legislature and the Catalans and the Catalans we have continued to pay, which we are also accustomed to. The opposition of Catalan society to tolls has been growing in recent years, being aware that we have already paid them out; indeed, that is so. On the other hand, citizen platforms have been created that have driven the debate over the years. This, together with the abundant scientific production generated in universities, the creation of a specific working group in the Parliament of Catalonia, etc., has led to a convergence of many opinions towards the same idea, exactly the same: the current financial toll is, ladies and gentlemen, extremely exhausted. I'm done. It is absolutely necessary to move forward and move towards a toll model that is homogeneous, harmonious and of course sustainable, because Catalans and Catalans are tired of paying and because the State deserves a new system of mobility infrastructures. We therefore have no reason today, once again, to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Barrios Tejero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u58	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we come here to discuss a non-legislative proposal presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the public recovery of toll freeways. Well, look, Mrs. Díaz, we're not getting started, we're not getting started because the title doesn't work for us anymore; you can't get back to the public what's already public. Or do you know any highways that don't publish? I'm sure you didn't, did you? Moreover, I am convinced that you know that this is not so, but I do not know why strange reason you always seek the way to make citizens believe what you do not believe yourself. Your Honor, toll freeways are sections of the state road network that at a certain point was decided to build through concession contracts. What does this mean? It means that the concessionaire, those you call bank-builder lobbies, those, assume the construction and financing of the work and also take charge of its conservation for a certain period of time. And how do they charge for all this? They charge it through a toll on the user, nothing new, Your Honor, and nothing that is not done in countries around us. What is the difference, then, with other ways? The only difference is the way to finance them; while in some it is the user who pays them, in the others it is the whole society that assumes the cost. Therefore, we are facing road sections as public as any other. No one or anything prevents access to these highways. Look, Your Honor, I have carefully read your explanatory statement and, in addition to using some expressions that do not surprise me coming from your group, because you talk about highway scams and so on, in your explanatory statement there are half-truths or half-truths or, if you prefer, we will say that they focus on the subject from the wrong point of view for us and that is why I have no choice but to clarify certain aspects so that you realize the impossibility that we have of supporting the GNP that they present in the terms in which they do so and that is why we have proceeded with an amendment to make it much more coherent. First of all, I have to inform you - although I have said this before - that in Spain the road network of the State is an entire public network and includes toll roads. Secondly, on the extension of the concession periods, the Minister for Development has said more than a dozen times - one of the last times was here, in this Chamber - that at the time when the contract expires those motorways will revert to the General Administration of the State and it will be the Government who, at the time, will have to make the right decision. He had also said so in the Senate for other highways; on this occasion he was referring to the AP-7, but he had said so for other motorways; that is, for all those who are winning from now on. Another clarification. You talk about bailing out concessions with financial problems. Look, the government is not going to rescue the concessions of highways, the so-called radials, what it is doing is conducting a process imposed by judicial proceedings because, look, the law has to be complied with and judicial decisions as well. Or do you intend us not to comply with judicial decisions? That's not rescuing highways. Finally, we are going to talk about an issue on which I invite you and all the groups to open a broad debate and it is about the free passage of motorways. Look, Your Honor, if it were decided at this time that all highways were free, what we would have to do was compensate the concessionaires for that part that had not yet been compensated for the investment they initially made in their construction and therefore that would have to be paid with money from all the taxpayers. I invite you to do so in the Community of Navarre, for example, where you support the Government. There is the AP-15 which is a motorway which does not depend on the road network of the State but on the Community of Navarre, in which tolls are also paid. Look, they pay 0.12 euros per kilometre, exactly the same as the average of the state's highway network. I invite you to make that proposal there and to preach with the example because, look, things are not free. When something's free for you, it's that someone's paying it on your behalf. You are talking about anomalies and it is true, we have some anomaly in Spain; in Spain the anomaly we have is that 80% of the high capacity roads in this country are free, something that does not happen in the countries of our environment, but we are very proud of that anomaly, very proud of being the European nation where the least tolls are paid. Ask yourself in Portugal, where the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Left Block, the Greens, the Ecologists... There they did just the opposite, there they pay one hundred percent of the high capacity roads - term, president -; one hundred percent. In Spain, 20%. Therefore, Your Honor, I see that I don't have any advice for myself. And I end by telling him that whenever he governs the left in this country, the concessions of the motorways have been extended; the first Government that has decided not to extend the concessions of the motorways is the one that currently exists. After forty years there has been a Government, which is the Government of Mariano Rajoy, which has decided not to extend the concessions of the motorways. This is a first step towards then being able to decide the management model we want, a management model on which we are willing to dialogue, we are ready to talk about how we do the maintenance of motorways, motorways and roads. What the Government has done, as I say, is to approve of no longer extending the motorways. That's a first step. And of course we are not going to be able to support this proposal of yours, nor can we support the amendment tabled by Squerra Republicana, because it seems to us that it would be an incentive for the government to make an illegality: not to respect the contracts signed. I ask you to accept our amendment and, if you do so, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u59	Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u60	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. The truth is, I was surprised by the debate because it seemed like a dichotomy. We were talking about an explanatory statement with a certain content and a proposed part that said something that might have something to do with but not too much. Mr Barrios now gave a perfectly coherent explanation of several of the issues affecting this debate and, however, he said that he was moving away from the proposed part of the GNP. It could largely coincide with your speech, and I want to remind you that this non-law proposal has two points. One, keep the nine broken highways in the public sector... And, two, do not extend the periods of any concession of the current toll freeways... The debate underlying this GNP therefore refers to the model of management of high-occupancy roads; it does not refer to another issue or to other issues that have overflew the debate. And this is a debate that has significance at the level of the whole State, also in the Basque Country, because in fact with these statements - the two of us on the proposal - all we would do is complete a process of realising the management model that exists in the Basque Country starting from a question, and this is something I want you to understand perfectly. In some ways, Mr Barrios has also commented on Navarra; neither in Navarre, nor in Guipúzcoa, nor in Álava, nor in Vizcaya, has anyone in history ever built roads other than the outlaws, with one exception, the high-occupancy roads made as concessions during the period of Francoism. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u61	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go ahead, Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u62	He said that's the anomaly we want to end, because there are two small pieces left in AP-1 and AP-68. Once the concessions, which were then extended by the State, have been completed, they can return these sections to the outlaws, already concluding this comprehensive model of road management which is carried out by the outlaws of Euskadi. Another issue is whether or not this management model should be characterised by tolling, by the pricing of the use of these high-occupancy routes. But that also has to do with another issue; it has to do with a European directive of 1999 whose proposal for an amendment is in force by means of the proposal for a directive 114 of 2017, precisely in order to describe in some way the characteristics that must have not from the point of view of the road but from the point of view of maintaining the cost of the road, based on two principles that also derive from the Treaty on European Union: who uses pay and who pollutes pay. Because this refers to the maintenance of infrastructure which is of specific use and also refers to intensive use which produces certain environmental effects. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my group has proposed to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, and it is going to do so for what I have commented on, because its proposed part does coincide with our approach, not so much in the case of the explanatory part that Mrs Díaz has expressed here or of some other rapporteur. But we do agree in the sense that we want to complete a model of management of the Basque roads for what we lack two small pieces, and which coincide curiously with the intentions of one another, even though here they have come to confluence intentions of confrontation, which are not based on the content of the operative part of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u63	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can bring a non-law proposal to talk about tolls, motorways or we don't know very well about what, but I have to recognize Mrs Díaz and we can agree on one thing - and it happens to us sometimes - and it's in the diagnosis. It is true that the bipartisanism of friends - the Socialist Party and the People's Party - for years have practiced an infrastructure policy basically based on handing over concessions, on keeping friends in contracts that made no sense, on riding chiringuitos with concessionaires to take away later billionaire bites that came to the party and that then allowed them to go doped to the elections to which they presented themselves; a dye that worked very well. In addition, they had the savings boxes, where the two parties were also. Finally, this system that is almost carried out in front of the country and where the infrastructure policy, which is very expensive, has played a central role: we have airports without planes, motorways without cars, trains without passengers, colossal centers distributed everywhere in Spain that have no use and that are in decline, falling to pieces, roundabouts that do not lead anywhere, busts of mayors in roundabouts and other places made with the money of all the Spaniards. That, logically, doesn't like the Spaniards and they're also paying for it and they're going to pay for it for generations. Therefore, a total opa to the infrastructure policy that the government has practiced and the infrastructure policy that the Socialist Party has also practiced particularly during the boom years. The example of the Madrid radials is probably the most serious of all: we have had to pay from the pocket of the Spaniards about 5 billion to roads that were awarded to fingers, without any technical criteria, without any criteria of efficiency, without any cost-benefit analysis; with the agreement that they had, if it didn't go well the Spaniards paid and, if it went well, they took the money the concessions. A wonderful business. I'd love for everything to be like this: I put money in one place, if I don't get the deal, they pay the Spaniards and if I don't get the money, I get the money. Of course, that business has no future, we do not want to continue socializing the losses, so I do not agree very much with Mrs Díaz's approach. In fact, what has been lacking is more market in some cases and not less, than those who take risks pay them and we do not have to pay them by the Spanish, Mrs Díaz. [[Applauds]] Your initiative, Mrs Díaz, has basically two problems. The first is a problem of general ideological approach, something that happens to them in all the initiatives they do. You want to nationalize everything. In the first programme they wanted to nationalize electricity, energy, telecommunications, and now they want to nationalize roads. It is clear that historical empirical evidence shows us that perhaps centralized planning - although Mr. Pablo Iglesias has a great knowledge and a great deal of self-assurance - has not just been the best model in many cases. In my party, on the other hand, we think that public-private cooperation or private initiative can often be great precisely for the benefit of the citizens, which is something you do not understand and that is why you want to nationalise everything as you propose in this initiative. The second problem with the proposal is very simple and it is called 15 billion, Mrs Díaz. You can't bring a proposal here - because someone could accuse you of being a populist - without explaining how you intend to pay it. You have basically four options: one, cut, cut in hospitals, in education, wherever you want, it's 15 billion, but you have to explain it, because you're going to stop entering a money if you don't make those concessions and if you dedicate all the money to nationalizing. He has a second option that is to raise taxes to the Spanish. Imagine, we have achieved a decrease of 2 billion in the IRPF for myleurists in Citizens, because this would be in the opposite direction ten times more; that is what you are proposing in this initiative, a rise in the IRPF of 20 billion or 15 000, explain to us how you intend to finance it and stop bringing empty proposals. [[Applauds]] The other alternative would be to trigger the deficit and fail to meet our European partners. Or, the last one, which is probably the one that hides behind your initiative and which you yourself do not want to recognize: is that maybe you want to put tolls and keep tolls on public roads. Explain if you bring such an initiative here and no longer deceive citizens. In short, and with this in mind, we are in favour of awarding contracts if they are necessary when it comes to technical analysis, meritocracy analysis in projects. We have proposed a number of initiatives in this respect, and we agree on point two: there can be no further extensions of concessions without a very clear review of the criteria for the awards and with a technical criterion, but not as you propose, returning everything to the public sector as a rule, as if this would solve the problems of finger awards we have had in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u65	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u66	Thank you, President. Before I went up here today, I tried to do an exercise: I watched the people of the public and I thought about what they would be thinking about the parliamentary interventions that have been made here. Have they drawn the conclusion or have they made it clear what each political party stands for? Have you come out of here with the conclusion that each political party defends two very simple things: that citizens continue to pay tolls once they comply with the concessions or that all Spanish citizens will have to pay for the radial bankruptcy? Surely if we asked the public, no one would know what to answer after each parliamentary group's interventions. Surely you have put a lot of passion in the defense of what you have raised, but it is curious to hear the interventions of the new parties because in the end what you are looking for is what has always been sought in politics: the easy applause of yours, whether you understand what they say or not, whether you make your position clear or not clear. Well, we are going to try in our speech to say what the position of the Socialist Group is and what is the translation of what the spokesmen of the rest of the parliamentary groups have said. We can with his initiative leave open two things that worry us: first, let open that the 2000 million or 4500 - depending on who you ask - that will cost us the broken toll roads we have to pay all the Spaniards, that's what leaves open Podemos. You have to explain if you're going to defend that or not. We can with his initiative, as he puts it, leave it open for citizens to continue paying for toll freeways once the concession is fulfilled. And we would like the people of Burgos, the citizens, to know that to circulate through the AP-1 after the concession We can leave open for the government to continue to collect tolls. Catalan and Valencian citizens need to know that Podemos continues to defend that in order to circulate through the AP-7, once it complies with the concession, citizens will have to continue paying tolls. Or the Andalusians with the AP-4 or the Aragonese and Catalans with the AP-2, and I could go on. That's what Podemos does with these initiatives: it leaves absolutely everything open. However, it would be unfair for me to come up here and criticize the rest of the parliamentary groups and not to say the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I will make this very clear: once they comply with the concession of all toll freeways, they will not be extended, they will not be re-bidden and toll free will be able to circulate through them. I believe that the position of the Socialist Group is well understood. [[Applauds]] We also believe that when a toll freeway breaks down citizens should not pay for it, they cannot take over a planning that has been wrong, so we believe that these toll freeways should be managed by the public and we say: they should be managed by the public. That's why we're going to support Podemos' initiative, because we understand philosophy, even if they haven't been able to explain it or they haven't shaped it in the best possible way. The existing concessions must seek the formula to eliminate aggravations, in tolls that involve an aggravation compared to other territories. Also, someone will wonder if it is possible to manage toll freeways from a public company, and I will set a very clear example for them. In 1983, the first socialist government took three toll freeways that were about to break. It was managed by the public and the benefits were for all citizens. - I repeat, it was managed by the public and all the benefits were for the citizens. The Aznar government arrived and did what they're so used to: giving away those toll freeways that had been sanitized for private management. Do you know what these companies have achieved since then? More than €1.3 billion. Aznar's first government was to give a socialist government to private highway companies: more than €1.3 billion. By the end of the concession, it will have increased to 27 billion more. That is why we need to make a number of things clear. All the toll freeways that have been planned and built in this country have been the work of the People's Party. All the toll freeways that have been extended in this country have been a thing of the People's Party. All the highways that have broken down in this country have been managed, planned and rescued by the People's Party. How did you do it? With the money of all the Spaniards. As I say, it is important for everyone here to know everyone's position. We've made it very clear. The PP, making a play on words, says that it will not extend the concessions of the current toll freeways, but that does not mean that it will not draw new concessions with other criteria, with other concepts, and that citizens will not continue to pay for using them. That is what the words of the People's Party say. Moreover, his spokesman at the Commission de Fomento, Miguel Barrachina, in a statement he made very recently said that it was very good that tolls should continue to be charged for the maintenance of toll freeways, once the concession had been fulfilled. It appears in a regional journal; ask him to rectify, but that's what he said in some statements he made on his land, and that seemed to him to be a good formula. Besides, they haven't cleared it up here. We're clear about each other's model. The Socialists defend what we have said here and we will continue to do so. We support Podemos' initiative, although it is not entirely clear, because philosophy is correct, but leaves many doubts open Thank you very much. [[Mr Barrachina Ros asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u67	Article, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u68	The 96th. A direct and inaccurate reference has been made. For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u69	You have a minute to intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u70	It's directly fake. Never, never, ever talked about tolls. It was an invention by a national Member of your group, who put in my mouth a few words that I have never spoken. I've never made any references to any tolls. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u71	Mr. Ramos, do you want to step in? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Díaz Pérez whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u72	Yes, the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u73	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE WILL TO INVESTIGATE THE PERPETRATED BARCELONA AND CHANGES IN AUGUST 2017. [[File number 162/000574]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u74	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the willingness to investigate the attacks perpetrated in Barcelona and Cambrils in August 2017. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to reflect. Given the statements about our intention to express the will to investigate the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils this August and given the comments I invite you to reflect on this point. The question is not why the investigation should be done, the question is why it should not be investigated. Why wouldn't the Barcelona and Cambrils bombings have to be investigated? The terrorist attacks of 17 and 18 August caused 16 deaths, 152 injuries, a massive hit in Las Ramblas and a stabbed driver when the perpetrator of the massive hit fled chaos. Only at 11 a.m. on the night of 17 August did the Mossos d'Esquadra relate the attacks with the previous explosion, on 16th, of 120 butane candy plus homemade explosives in a house illegally occupied in Alcanar. I will repeat: there were 120 butane candies plus homemade explosives. They operate on the 16th, and the judge warns the police that they might have a relationship with terrorism. The judge receives every answer: Don't exaggerate, Your Honor. On the 18th the terrorist attack took place in Cambrils with the stabbing of a woman, a new victim, and on the same day the Catalan Interior Council confirmed the existence of a terrorist cell that was prepared to attack in Catalonia with 12 members and led by the imam of Ripoll. I repeat, in view of what I have just described to you and beyond the considerations I will make a little later, I invite you again to reflect. Why shouldn't we investigate this? Perhaps one might believe that the investigation of facts like this is exceptional. No, no, Following the attacks of the 11S Twin Towers in the United States, a commission of inquiry was set up which, by the way, acted quite quickly. In France, following the attacks by Charlie Hebdo or Bataclan, parliamentary commissions of inquiry were set up. In this country following the attacks of 11 March 2004, a committee of inquiry was set up unanimously by all the groups present in this House - except those who are new, of course and let me remind you of some of the things that were then said by party representatives who seem to have declared that this committee should not be formed. The current president of the government, Mariano Rajoy, said that it was created because - quote:... we have nothing to hide and so that we do not again create a climate of public opinion like that of the days after the 11M. Diego López Garrido, who was then a spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, congratulated the People's Party on the decision and bet that the Commission would start its work as soon as possible, also saying that its central objective should not be to achieve party objectives, but to obtain conclusions that would lead to the fact that what happened on 11 March would not happen again. Why would it be different now? Why would it be different? Why did someone come up with the idea that the Barcelona bombing had to be investigated, in any case, by the Parliament of Catalonia? Forgive me for a moment. So, if the attack is in Madrid, it is investigated by the Spanish Parliament and, if it is in Barcelona, it is investigated by the Catalan Parliament? Did the 11M attacks be investigated by the Madrid Assembly? Or is it that the dead in Barcelona are less dead? Can anyone explain that to me? [[Applauds]] All we want is for him to learn from the mistakes and the mistakes. We want clarifications to be made so that future attacks such as the many that have already aborted the laudable State Security Forces and Corpses can be aborted. Furthermore, I repeat that in this case there has been a lack of coordination that we cannot afford. What was going on with the magnet is satty? What happened to the radicalization process? Is it true that it was registered and controlled? How is it possible that with the 120 candy and homemade explosives nothing was suspected, also taking into account that the magnet was registered? Two people died in that explosion. What about the investigating judge's warnings? Why didn't you take care of her? What about the denunciation by El Periódico de Catalunya that the Mossos d'Esquadra had received an alert from the CIA about a possible attack on the Ramblas, precisely? That information was denied by Mr Puigdemont, then President of the Generalitat - now a fugitive -. It was denied by Mr. Forn, who was the interior adviser; it was denied by Mr. Trapero, who was the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Subsequently, they were forced to acknowledge that the alert had existed. But not only had the Mossos d'Esquadra been warned that a jihadist attack was being prepared in the Ramblas; the Government of Spain had been warned; the CNI had been warned. There has been a lack of coordination; there has been a lack of collaboration. Perhaps there has been a belief that others should act or that others should not act in any case. In any case, this lack of efficiency, as is the case with the most sensitive matter to be handled by a public servant, should not be repeated. And I do not understand who is afraid to talk about it, to investigate and to draw conclusions, when if we do not do so we would be faced with the first case, not in Spain but in Europe, of a jihadist attack, which, instead of leading to all kinds of efforts to clarify it, causes all kinds of efforts not to investigate it. As it seems that it cannot be, that it does not fit in the head of anyone, I invite you again to the reflection with which it began. We do not have to prove ourselves or explain why it would have to be investigated; it is you who would have to tell us why it would not have to be investigated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u76	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils, and it is a good time to remember that the one who managed to dismantle the cell, the one who managed to kill and arrest the jihadist cell, Councilman Joaquim Forn, is currently in jail for political reasons ; and with him, our vice-president, Oriol Junqueras, and with him two of the leaders of our most important entities in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] We have tabled amendments to the Citizens' proposal. It seems a lie that they didn't even want to comment on it. We said to recognize the role of the Mossos d'Esquadra, that if I'm not mistaken and if I don't live in Matrix... [[A Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group delivers words that are not perceived]] No, you're the one who lives in Matrix. [[Applauds]] It turns out that those who killed the terrorists or arrested them, if I'm not mistaken, were the Mossos d'Esquadra. You don't even want to recognize in your motion the role of the Mossos d'Esquadra. They don't even want to talk about it! Above all, they tell us about a CIA theory that, among other things, has been denied by many media, and they propose a commission of inquiry, a commission of inquiry that you have already announced to us. I mean, here's a decoordination, here's a cutback for the Mosses, here's a no-know-what... man! [[Applauds]] But there's also lightness, because you know that all this is under summary secrecy. Right now, all we ask of the police or everything we ask of the Ministry of the Interior will be denied us, because the judge and the prosecutor have it in secret, so that what you are doing - with this I finish, because I have no more time - is to castrate the possibility of a genuine commission of inquiry that clarifies these terms. Or is that not their real objective, that this Commission should not reach anywhere? You know that at the moment with the secret of summary this Commission is not going to get anywhere and that you are castrating it. In a few months, he could have another function. I ask you, Mr Girauta, to behave with State responsibility, which you so much like to use, and please take this Commission, first, to a point of realism - the people who have worked, worked - and second, to a point where it can really do something and when the secret of judicial summary is lifted. Thank you very much, President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u79	Thank you, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. Whether or not you include the amendments tabled by the PDECAT - I understand that not - as the text of your non-law proposal is presented, whether or not we are voting for points, Mr de Citizens, we would vote for a strong yes to the second point in that recognition of the State Security Forces and Bodies - it would be missing more - as the Navarro People's Union has always done, which has always been against terrorism and alongside the victims; but at the first point, regarding the establishment of this commission of inquiry, let me tell you that we have serious doubts. If what they really want, as they have written, is to develop improvements in the security of the Spaniards against terrorism, let us leave the professionals of the State Security Forces and Bodies and the justice that they propose and here it is legislated. On the other hand, we also have the experience that the prior apriorisms and conclusions of many commissions of inquiry reduce them to nothing. That is why we would vote against on that point. In any case, I am convinced that we would agree with you that as representatives of civil society we have to demand - I say self-demand - unity and firmness in the face of terrorism. In this sense, Union del Pueblo Navarro, in the people of its president, its vice-president, its secretary-general and the two deputies, came to Barcelona to support Catalan citizens, Spanish citizens, against terrorism and alongside the victims, and we find ourselves with the bitter surprise of a minority of Catalan society sponsored by independent political forces who wanted to blow up this demonstration in favour of the victims. That is why, and definitely, the Navarro People's Union will always be against terrorism and in favour of the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u80	Thank you very much. In the round of fixing positions, the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u81	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from the seat - because I will do so briefly - to say that we will not be voting in favour of the establishment of the committee of inquiry proposed to us. And we will not, because what is being said is not going to be achieved through the creation of this committee of inquiry, nor is it going to be better prepared for terrorist threats by examining in the open the coordination failures and errors that you claim and denounce and that through this committee you intend to prove using this House. Even if, for dialectical purposes, there may have been, the scope of purification is that of the courts and of the departmental security officials, together with the security forces and bodies, dependent on them, and in the established forums: that of the Secretariat of State for Security with regard to the State Security Forces and Bodies and that of the Security Board between the Ministry and the Department of Security of the Generalitat for the coordination relations between the State Security Forces and Bodies and those of the Generalitat of Catalonia. In his case, exposing the decoordinations to the public light and in a debate in this House would be the worst that could be done, in our opinion, in the area of security, when, moreover, suspicion is cast on the supposed decoordinations and errors as a consequence of which it is called the Catalan independence process. It does not seem to this Basque Parliamentary Group that these matters can be dealt with in a committee of inquiry, but through dialogue and agreement in forums away from a committee of inquiry, whose immediate and mediated purpose is the simple purification of political responsibilities, no matter how much they tell us otherwise, and we have seen this in its day with the 11-M Commission of Inquiry, whose origin was certainly not so much the facts themselves as the instrumentalization of them as was done by some political party. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u82	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u83	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remember. At five and a minute in the afternoon, on August 17, 2017, a van killed 16 people in 530 meters from Las Ramblas de Barcelona and injured 130 more. One and a quarter in the morning, in another attack, a car would kill one person and hurt six more on the Cambrils promenade. That same night Councilman Joaquim Forn and Major Trapero, one in jail today for a referendum and the other in an office making photocopies for refusing to beat people during that referendum, already connected those attacks with the explosion with a dead man in a house in Alcanar twenty-four hours earlier. That dead man was called Abdelbaki Es Satty. Its Satty was Ripoll's magnet, was a terrorist of the Islamic State, was the brain of the attacks - his death, manipulating explosives in Alcanar, would accelerate events - and above all he was a collaborator of the CNI. I repeat, he was a collaborator of the CNI, as the CNI itself confessed on 17 November last year. That is, the brain of one of the worst jihadist attacks in Europe collaborated in one way or another with the Spanish National Intelligence Centre. Today we know, one, that in 2005 the General Information Commissioner intervened Es Satty's phone with the authorization of Judge Grande-Marlaska for his connection with Al Qaeda - in twelve years no one would warn the Mossos d'Esquadra -. Two, that in 2016 a Belgian policeman would request information via e-mail to a mosso d'Esquadra about Es Satty; that mosso investigated in his database and found nothing, simply because the database of the Mosso d'Esquadra was not connected to the database of the Center for Intelligence against Terrorism and the Spanish Organized Crime. Three, we also know that in 2010 Es Satty is convicted of drug trafficking in Ceuta and that, despite this crime and its proven connection with terrorist ballots, he enters and leaves without any surveillance of this country; it is surprising that Es Satty was not guarded in any way - the mossos also did not know all this -. And four, finally, we also know that in 2014 the CNI contacted Es Satty in Castellón prison for his relationship with a jihadist terrorist, a member of the ballot responsible for the 11-M massacre. Today, since the CNI has not been clear from when, until when and for how much Es Satty has collaborated with them; today, European police unions continue to call for the full integration of the Mossos d'Esquadra into Europol. Here are the facts, here is why the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left called for the appearance of the Minister of the Interior, of Minister Zoido - now absent, as usual - in the Committee on the Interior. He refused us. Citizens' Lords, when you are interested in this, when you consider that patriotism is not to wear a bracelet with the colors of your flag on a doll but to know the truth of what is happening in your country; Citizens' Lords, when you are interested in all this that I have told you now, you can call us. Meanwhile, go to your TV sets and tell lies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u84	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u85	Next Saturday, six months of the brutal terrorist attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils, in which sixteen people were killed and hundreds of them were injured and affected. As we still bear in mind the feeling of pain and sadness that that caused us, we want to remember it now to show our solidarity and support for their families and friends. We would also like to begin by recognizing the work of all citizens and, in particular, the police forces, firefighters, medical and social emergency services; without them, the consequences of that attack would undoubtedly have been much more devastating. The attacks were a very hard blow for all of us, not just for those of us who live there, but for those who feel proud every day of living in cities open to the world where people of different origins and beliefs are mixed. What we regret is that the non-law proposal that Citizens bring to the Plenary is presented, first of all, without having sought agreement with the rest of the parliamentary groups, more encouraged by generating noise around what happened than by seeking consensus and complicity that will enable us to learn from what happened and make improvements in the future. Some seem to remain committed to using the anti-terrorism struggle in a partisan and irresponsible manner, revictimizing once and a thousand times those who have already been their victims. Obviously, this does not mean that there is no accountability or that we cannot discuss politically what has happened or how it has been managed - denying this in a Parliament would be absurd - but it is important that our behaviour be exemplary, that is, neither partisan nor petty. It is important that we be rigorous, prudent and constructive, and that we bet on coordination and cooperation rather than strategic competition between political opponents. A competition that we are tired of many and that is based on that friendly-enemy dialectic of which some so much like and which is part more of the problem than of the solution. It is rather sad to read the proposal presented to us Citizens, sometimes very much left with demagogy and simplistic and incomplete arguments, using the attack as an opportunity to, for the umpteenth time, try to discredit certain institutions and security bodies or, who knows, put on the table new re-centralizing proposals in the future. This is an initiative which, in its explanatory statement, does not look at the victims, which does not think about their rights or their reparation, but seeks the political wear and tear of the one who has been built up as the adversary. We do not find explicit recognition of the need for coordination and cooperation of the institutions, but we do not find any respect for the judicial process that is open at the National Court to clarify the events that have taken place and that is still under summary secrecy. That means that if a commission of inquiry were to be held at this time, many of the people who should appear would not be able to provide information and, therefore, many issues could not be dealt with fully and rigorously. And that, of course, Citizens know and don't care. We do not want to participate in this circus they are trying to set up; we want to continue working to avoid attacks like the one we have suffered and to recognize the victims' right to truth, justice, memory and reparation. We believe that the times have passed when the victims were a currency of change for the right-wing electoral tactics and strategies. So our group is going to abstain in this Citizens' GNP because, in the face of the exchange of reproaches in which they want to settle, we are betting on rigour and prudence. We do not object, because we believe that people who hold positions of maximum responsibility in institutions must always give explanations so that we can learn from what happened and thus improve our response. In fact, this is what the security commissioner of the Barcelona municipal government did when three weeks after the attacks he appeared in committee to explain and answer questions from all municipal groups. We therefore believe that the Ministry of the Interior should continue to provide relevant information at meetings in the Anti-Jihadist Pact as long as the judicial process remains under summary secrecy. At the moment when we have all the information we can quietly and calmly propose the creation of a commission of inquiry that can be useful and constructive. With the tools and resources we had, no one was able to avoid last August's attacks in Catalonia, just as no one was able to avoid those in other cities in Europe and the world, but we must not lose sight of the fact that the only one responsible for what happened in Barcelona and Cambrils is terrorism and everything that fuels hatred for the other. All administrations must improve the management that they have been doing of these atrocities and the Local Board of Seguretat of Barcelona is already working in a cooperative and coordinated way in this regard. It would be desirable for them, instead of undermining their work, to make an effort to support those spaces, because there is no administration that can solve a matter of these characteristics alone and because the management of an attack is not limited to the first reaction or immediate attention, but much remains to be done. Many remember the reaction of the people the day after the attack, after the minute of silence that was kept in the Plaza de Catalunya, when, spontaneously, the streets were taken and a lot of people started walking down Las Ramblas shouting 'I don't have to'. That cry is what we don't forget, because it doesn't just mean that terrorists weren't going to achieve their goal, they weren't going to be able to divide us either. 'I don't have to' is to build and rebuild coexistence, that social fabric without which we only have hatreds, aggressions and attacks. The problem is that it seems that Citizens do not believe in any of that, it seems that Citizens believe and work to have a Catalonia divided and faced. They believe in a policy of internal borders and external walls, they fuel exclusion and confrontation, as they are now doing with this GNP. That is why they are cynical when they say they fight terrorism, even when they ask for legitimate explanations. Although we do not believe them - which we do not believe them - on this occasion we are going to abstain, to see whether this GNP can make progress on the path of learning, improving and betting on joint, better coordinated and more effective work against terrorism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u86	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The first thing I want to do, on behalf of my group, is to have an affectionate and respectful memory of the victims of these terrible attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils and, of course, of all the victims of terrorism. After the terrible news that we knew this morning, my group cannot fail to denounce another kind of terrorism, the macho terrorism that this morning ended the life of another woman in Malaga. [[Applauds]] Our repulses and condemnation are stronger. At this beginning, I would also like to show my group's support and commitment to the State Security Forces and Bodies, which work daily to guarantee our security and freedom and which, moreover, in the area of counter-terrorism, are effectively doing so, as we can see from day to day. Therefore, Mr de Citizens, we have no problem in supporting the second point of this initiative, but not the first, Mr Girauta. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we do not share this initiative because it has a clear electoral and partisan interest. From the PSOE we are clear that terrorism does not bring about political confrontation, that only unity can be achieved with terrorism. Mr Girauta, if you really have any doubts, if your group has any doubts or anything to raise about the Barcelona and Cambrils attacks, you have to do so at that table of the Counter-Terrorism Pact, of the Anti-Jihadist Pact. [[Applauds]] That is the forum where it has to be raised and not in this House. Moreover, Mr Girauta, it is curious that you come to tell us that you do not intend to seek political responsibilities but, yes, you want a commission of inquiry in the temple of politics, in the Congress of Deputies, where we come to talk about politics and political management; what you want, in the end, is to seek political responsibilities, that is, the responsibilities of an autonomous government such as that of the Generalitat. You want to cover it up with nice words and, believe me, we are not going to let ourselves be deceived or persuaded, Mr. Girauta. I insist, what you really say in this initiative is that you want to see what failures have been made, what mistakes so that they will not be repeated again. Mr Girauta, what better than anti-terrorist experts and not a group of politicians, Members of Parliament, to analyse that! How much better that anti-terrorist experts and police experts see the coordination failures that have occurred than a group of Members locked up in a room! What better than the instruction of the National High Court to clarify what happened in the Cambrils and Barcelona bombings and what failures there might have been and not to be analysed by a group of Members, what they would do here would be to use these microphones for political confrontation, Mr Girauta! [[applause.- Mr. Girauta Vidal shows a quartet in which you read: What about the 11-M?]] It is clear, Mr de Ciudadanos, that, in the heat of your results in Catalonia, you intend to continue to draw electoral revenue from the political and social situation that this community, which is living in Catalonia, is living in, but the most serious thing is that you have had no sense of bringing terrorism into political confrontation. [[Mr. Girauta Vidal: What do you say!]] You say it, yes, Mr Girauta; you say it on your own initiative. I read textually: public opinion has the legitimate aspiration to know whether the independence process in Catalonia has been able to negatively affect the coordination between bodies and the management of the anti-terrorist struggle. You say it. Mr Girauta, believe me, neither the People's Party of Major Ereja and Acebes was able to make such an evil combination and association by uniting independence and terrorism. [[Applauds]] Believe me, it's a perversion what you have done and reflected in your initiative, Mr. Girauta. If you want to get votes from the right, do it with other issues, you have a lot of issues to be able to confront with the PP government and the right, but with terrorism not, Mr Girauta; with terrorism, no. It is said by a party that, being in opposition, never used terrorism; on the contrary, we proposed an anti-terrorist pact to pull terrorism out of political confrontation. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: That's a lie!]] While in the government we had to endure the demonstrations encouraged by the People's Party against Zapatero's anti-terrorist policy and we had to endure the current president of the government, who was in the opposition saying that we had betrayed the dead. Ladies and gentlemen, neither when the dead were socialists nor when we were able to end terrorism, being Zapatero as President of the Government and being lehendakari Patxi López, nor under any other circumstances will we use terrorism in political confrontation and as long as it is in our hands, nor will we consent, Mr Girauta. We're not going to allow it. I'm done. You don't want a commission of inquiry to know what failures there were and what coordination failures could occur, you just want to know how many more points in the polls give you this kind of political confrontation. [[Applauds]] That's the only interest. Mr. Girauta, how little has lasted that sense of state I presumed! How little has lasted for them that sense of state they came here to boast of! [[Mr. Vidal Swift: Shameless!]] It has lasted them only what they have taken to see a CIS survey and see that they were going up, but, believe me, Mr. Girauta, in politics not everything is worth it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín-Toledano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I have to regret - and I did not have it in my speech - is that when a criticism is made of the spokesman for Citizens, in this case, he insults the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I don't think it's a receipt, I have to say. And I must also say that the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group, are with the victims of terrorism and they want to acknowledge their suffering, and they are with the State Security Forces and Bodies, which have avoided many attacks. As other groups have said, we are in favour of point 2 of the Citizens' GNP, in support of the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]] And if you let them vote separately, we will support it, as we did in our GNP on 24 October last year in support of the State Security Forces and Corpses. I have to tell you that anti-terrorist policy has to be state policy, it has to be consensus policy, it has to be political that does not divide society, and the Citizens' proposal seems to us, sincerely, a monument to political opportunism, sincerely. [[Rumors]] [[Several Members: There, there!]] And with many contradictions: on the one hand, he asks for a commission of inquiry, but, as he has been reminded, he says he does not want to seek political responsibility. The whole doctrine of political law says that a commission of inquiry is to seek and demand political responsibility! If some facts are to be analysed technically, a committee is proposed to ask for information and make proposals. If that one already exists! It already exists in the Counter-Terrorism Pact. Yesterday he met, has committees and subcommittees for study, analysis and proposals. What I find incredible is that, after listening yesterday to the director of the CIS, who told them that there was a secret summary - you were at that meeting - and that no information could be given, they persist in the error of proposing a commission of inquiry. [[Rumors]] We are with which to investigate, with which to propose. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. But you are not in that, you are in the political exploitation of the attack and in stretching the political exploitation of the circumstances of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Look, from the time the attack took place until the Government implemented 155 more than two months had passed, and if it believed that there were political responsibilities in the Catalan Government and in the Mossos, why did it not raise this committee of inquiry in the Catalan Parliament? I mean. [[Applauds]] But it is also that, since the elections, you have left Catalonia in total political paralysis. [[Rumors]] It seems that they do not want to investigate there, nor do they want to discuss who presides over the Bureau, nor who is the president of the Generalitat. So, if you're so concerned about citizen security.. [[Rumors.-Mr. Girauta Vidal utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u90	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u91	Mr. Girauta, don't lose your nerves. If you are so concerned, I would ask you a question: why did you vote with the PNV to empty the Citizen Security Act? [[Applauds]] They voted with the PNV to empty the Citizen Security Act, which allows the State Security Forces and Bodies to carry out tasks that prevent terrorist attacks. If you are so concerned about security, Mr. Girauta, why do you refuse to allow a citizen who commits a terrorist act as a result of death to apply the permanent prison reviewable? Why do they object? Why do they object? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] You'll have to say everything. We want to investigate, propose and listen to experts. There are the Bureau and the follow-up committees to the Counter-Terrorism Pact, a pact that does not exist in other countries of Europe. However, you are betting on a legal figure, the committee of inquiry, which has no reason to be. You're just looking for votes, you're just looking for political opportunism. Recognize it and return to the normal path of wanting to propose things that are good for the State and not good for its electoral interests. Thank you very much. [[Mrs Robles Fernández asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u92	Mrs. Robles?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u93	Madam President, on the basis of Rules 71 and 72 of the Rules of Procedure, I call for the removal of the insults that the representative of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has made by addressing whom he was speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u94	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u95	If anything has offended the group that has accused mine of using terrorism for electoral purposes, I withdraw it; I did not want to offend them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u96	I ask Mr Girauta Vidal whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u97	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u99	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to debate the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the position of the Government regarding the recent granting of exploration permits to the multinational oil company ENI in the Tan Tan basin in Morocco, which will involve the carrying out of prospections that will put the entire socio-ecosystem at risk. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u100	Thank you, President. Indeed, last week we asked the Government of Spain about the permissions granted by Morocco to a multinational oil company to prospect just over 50 kilometers from our Canary Islands. [[The Lord]] The Government of Spain - today there is no minister, but well -, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dastis - by the way, another of the reprobated ministers - went up to this rostrum to answer us, and lied to us. I know we should be used to it, but we're always surprised. He lied to us, told us the story of magnetometry, gravimetry or stratigraphy as safe methods of searching for hydrocarbons, as if he did not know that these methods were eaten with the animal species that has given international fame to the area where they have authorized prospections, which is a world sanctuary of cetaceans. Because these methods - I would like someone to transfer it to the minister - of course they affect the ecosystem, and he either knows it or should know it, that one no longer knows if it is evil or ignorance. As much as the mantra of secure prospecting is repeated, there are no reliable prospecting, no secure prospecting, and not because we can say it, because it is said by the scientific community. And you know what we think about the Canary Islands? That what security a government can offer us in the face of this prospecting activity when just three months ago, if it is not due to the denunciation of a group of divers, they would not have known - or at least that is what they have said - that a ship was conducting illegal surveys on the coasts of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. But it is also that, after the citizen's complaint, that is, after they have found out, they have not even opened an investigation to try to find out what vessel it was, to clear up responsibilities and to fight properly those who attack our environment. How can we trust you, a government that views national sovereignty as an impediment and not as a tool to defend the rights of Canarian and, therefore, Spanish citizens? The well-being of a country - I know it is hard for some to believe - is not measured by the barrels of crude oil that it can place in the markets; the well-being of a country is measured by its environmental quality and its ability to redistribute as equitably as possible the wealth it generates. Spain and Morocco have ratified the agreements reached at the Paris and Marrakech climate summits to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore the duty of the Government to decarbonize, and so far no one, no one from this Government has turned to Morocco to show at least our strong refusal to allow a multinational in the twenty-first century to irreversibly stab our marine ecosystem in search of polluting energies. Unfortunately for our country, the Government and the party that supports it do not conceive of the well-being of the people and the environment in which they live as a matter of State, do not conceive of it. Today, the future of the Canary Islands, of its more than 2 million inhabitants and of the mascarón de proa of its economy, which is tourism, is again at risk. Where is the patriotism of the government? Where is patriotism? Maybe they left everything in the Perejil islet. Canary Islands is a three-continental geostrategic territory in the Atlantic Ocean and you do not properly manage your interests because of the geostrategic importance we have. Where our waters should be, illegal fishing techniques are used and dangerous goods are too often transported, and they know this because we have denounced it in Parliament's Committee on Development. The Government of the State does not even have the necessary plans to act in an emergency. And, if that were not enough, the appropriate steps are not being taken to resolve the defencelessness in which the Canary Islands lives by not being recognized as the archipelagic principle embodied in the law of the sea. This measure of truth would resolve the debate on the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf which belongs to the State and would promote the signing - this time yes - of a definitive agreement, based on international law, on the Middle Atlantic with Morocco; medium - we will not let anyone forget that - in which the brother Saharan people play a fundamental role, who have again seen how their rights are violated with the exploration permit that Morocco has just granted. I'm finishing up, President. Today we want to urge the House, all the parties present in this House, to join the agreement on this important issue for the Canary Islands. An agreement that has already been adopted virtually unanimously in the Parliament of the Canary Islands on the basis of a number of points: show our rejection of prospecting in waters close to the Canary Islands; urgently open diplomatic channels to urge Morocco, through the State and the European Union, to stop encouraging this type of polluting activity; raise the level of environmental protection in the area; guarantee access to citizens' true and transparent information about this whole process; strengthen, of course, the inter-institutional cooperation between the Canary Islands and the State, and other ways of protecting, as mandated by the Constitution, the interests of the State in any part of its territory. We really hope that this House will defend the interests of the Canary Islands because today those interests are those of all and those of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u102	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just here to talk about hydrocarbon explorations, we are here to talk about diplomatic relations, the environment, the economic model, water, agriculture and also the inaction of a government that believes that foreign policy is perhaps something from another planet. The transposition of the European directive on offshore hydrocarbon exploration was discussed here on 30 November 2017 and we call for it to be treated as a draft law to include all environmental criteria in view of the fact that the sea has no physical borders and was indispensable. Regrettably, the People's Party and the Socialist Party decided that no, it was not necessary to take these criteria into account. Prospections are being made on the coasts of Tan Tan, Tarfaya and Sidi Ifni, that is, less than 50 kilometres from the coasts of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote, less than 50 kilometres from the coasts of this country, so we do not understand the government's inaction. I will give you a data that you need to know; the 100 percent of the water that is consumed and that is also used for agriculture in Lanzarote and Fuerteventura comes through the desalination of marine water, and 60% of the cultivation water for the island of Gran Canaria also comes through marine desalination, with which all this type of facilities and prospecting affects us very much and can affect not only the economic model of the islands that depend on their coasts but also marine biodiversity. As my predecessor has already said, we are faced with an area that pretends to be a cetacean sanctuary. For you to understand, one out of every three species of cetaceans in the world can be seen on those shores. We are facing a privileged area in terms of marine fauna. Unfortunately - I said it in another intervention - as marine fauna is not touched, as marine fauna is not seen every day, it seems that it does not exist or that it should not be protected. However, in 2015, the Minister of Agriculture recognized it as a place of Community importance for the European Union; moreover, the project was renewed in 2017, including European funds up to 2024. What does that mean? That we have a Ministry of the Environment that believes in these conservation areas but then we have a Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, like not going with it, basically tries to do nothing. In the area of territorial waters - it should be remembered that the Canary Islands does not have defined territorial waters or, which is the same thing, it seems that the Government does not want to define the waters of an ultraperipheral territory as recognized by international treaties - we already ask the Government about the situation of this complaint lodged with the United Nations concerning the situation of the territorial waters of the Canary Islands. Your textual answer: It's a premature time to make an evaluation. He also told us that a recommendation is expected but that it will probably be late or not with the speed that we intend. We asked because we assumed that perhaps the ministry had not understood the problem of the territorial waters of the Canary Islands too well, but the answer was the same. A country that does not comply with its maritime boundaries and borders is a country that does not comply with the rights and guarantees of its citizens and also with all its environmental aspects, both marine and terrestrial. It seems that the physical borders are more sensitive but we forget that the marine borders have much to do, especially in our country with the economic model that we have. This Christmas we learned of the beginning of the explorations that were being made - I repeat - 50 kilometers from the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. On 5 January, we asked the Government what it had done, whether the Ministry had interceded in its diplomatic area with the Government of Morocco, whether it had been interested. The answer I understand you know because you haven't answered us, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hasn't answered us. We have also asked him to appear and explain it to us, but taking into account the explanations of the other day here in the Chamber we understand that he has little concern about the Canaries, little concern about what happens near their coasts; it is rather a headache that part of their work. We want to ask you from here, to see if anyone is moving to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if you have been interested in this situation, if you have contacted that company to see if you have any kind of contingent prepared in case there is a spill because, I repeat, 100 percent of the water consumed in Lanzarote and Fuerteventura comes from desalinated water. I do not know if the government will do anything, I do not know if it is concerned about the sea, I do not know if it is concerned about the economic model of a distant archipelago but which forms part of the national territory such as the Canary Islands, but what is clear is that, by reflecting on the government party, in the Canary Islands they are running with the flag to support initiatives to defend the water limits of the Canary Islands and to defend the Canary Islands, but then the ministry ignores and seems to it to be a distant territory, that it is premature to give answers and especially that in the area of territorial waters of the islands we will have to talk to other people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Shame is still felt by Canarian society that despite the majority opposition of society and institutions of all kinds - citizens' organizations, trade union organizations, universities, scientific organizations; everyone opposed - we had to suffer from prospecting in canarian waters in the past legislature, which were abandoned because Repsol did not care, not the Government of Spain. What a chance you have now to correct this. New Canarias asked a question on the same subject in December and would have submitted a GNP if, fortunately, Podemos had not advanced. I would like to congratulate Mrs Pita on an absolutely rigorous motion that expresses well the depth of the issue we are dealing with, a border issue. I know that the Canary Islands are not believed to be the southern border of the European Union in this case; I know that they do not believe it, but they have to understand that it is a border issue and for that they have to recognize - the representative of the Citizens' Group has alluded to this - that there is a median between Morocco and the Canary Islands, which they have not done for reasons that are long to explain now. Everything that happens on one side and on the other of that medium that nobody recognizes but that everyone uses affects on one side and on the other, with the difference that everything that is done - in this case possible prospecting - can ruin the way of life of at least half of the Canary Islands. We do not know what else we have to do to convince them that this matter must be taken seriously. When it comes to a border issue, what is usually done when there is a question of interest? Talks with the other State, with the Kingdom of Morocco in this case, attempts are made to reach agreements, some possibilities of understanding are raised in the motion from the point of view of cooperation or it can be defined that this is a marine space that should be considered a cetacean sanctuary; in addition to doing this, it should be done something else, that is not to be mistaken with international law and to respect that explorations authorized by the Kingdom of Morocco in the waters of Western Sahara cannot be carried out, since that is illegal from the point of view of international law. It would be very good if this time they did not cause us to be ashamed of the Government of Spain in defending the interests of the Canary Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pita, we appreciate this parliamentary initiative, as it could not otherwise be, because neither this Member nor the Canary Coalition nor the Government of the Canary Islands have ever changed their watchful position in the face of any kind of oil prospecting that can be developed or developed in the future in waters near the Canary Islands. These oil operations are a recurring issue that often arises, and in the specific case we are dealing with from the Canary Islands we take note of the capacity of the Kingdom of Morocco to act, but that does not mean that we remain silent. Since we were aware of the new permits to carry out oil explorations obtained by Morocco in the area called Tarfaya-Offshore-Shalow, both this Member speaking to them and the Government of the Canary Islands itself, we have asked for timely information and we have always urged all parties to extend security in our near waters, be they Spanish or Moroccan. The Canary Islands Coalition stresses and reiterates the need for the Government of Spain to continue to inform clearly and in real time of any new developments that may occur around the oil explorations authorized by Morocco. We also consider it necessary for the Government of Spain to take all possible measures to reduce any risk of spillage in the area and to ensure a zero environmental impact, but also to provide compensation in the event of spills. We also believe that it is essential, as the Government of the Canary Islands has already proposed, that from Spain and the European Union as a whole, the necessary discussions with the Kingdom of Morocco should take place in order to develop and expand collaborative projects to increase the use of renewable energy in that country. It is necessary to establish a working group with the support of the European Commission to reduce mining activities on the Canary Islands-Africa maritime channel and to propose other energy alternatives that are sustainable, clean and renewable over time. That is why the Canary Islands Coalition, in line with what the spokesman for Podemos has said, is going to support this initiative, which is virtually literal to that adopted unanimously in the Canary Islands Parliament. That is why this Member asks the People's Parliamentary Group, whose party approved this proposal in the Canary Islands, to support it as well, because it is about having information and monitoring systems, and the European Commission is urging Morocco to work towards what needs to be done. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u108	Thank you, President. The king of Morocco has awarded the Italian company ENI a concession to carry out oil explorations in waters near the Canary Islands. We understand the fear and fear that such practices may arouse in the face of a possible spill, especially at the prospecting stage, although it must also be said that the Kingdom of Morocco, despite taking time to carry out such activities, has not found enough oil for its exploitation. It should also be remembered that there has been a rejection of Repsol's oil explorations in waters near the Canary Islands a few years ago, but these new explorations of Morocco, unlike those of years ago, are not authorized by the Spanish Government, but are authorized by another State; a State which is in principle sovereign in decision-making, that is, has the right to manage its territory and resources in the manner it considers most appropriate, although we can often doubt the legality of some of them. Thus, because Morocco is a sovereign country and because Spain has already promoted prospecting in waters close to Moroccans in its day, we find it very difficult - but not impossible - for the Government to oppose such prospecting, if it is consistent or consistent with decisions taken in the past, and also because it involves interference in another State. On the other hand, it must also be said that countries do not live in isolation and that there are limits to the actions of States. For example, international law obliges countries to protect the environment and establishes responsibilities if there are negative consequences for third countries. What could be done is for the Government to obtain information from the Moroccan Government on the process initiated to determine whether it complies with international law, whether it has carried out the appropriate environmental impact assessments in those waters, whether there is a safety protocol, and the measures to be taken in the event of a spill of crude oil to the sea. Our group, as you know, is in favour of respecting our own areas of decision-making and, therefore, on local issues we do not usually interfere, but, since this is a consensus motion and accepted by the Canarian Parliament, our group will respect the decision emanating from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of possible prospecting in the Tan Tan basin in Morocco, the Republican Left of Catalonia wants, first of all, to establish some general considerations. The Moroccan Government has for years been conducting studies of its coastal coast in search of oil deposits, as well as the multinational Repsol, and both have ruled that the only thing they have found there are scarce gas and oil with very little value. Since the prospections already carried out in the area, as in other similar ones, may have catastrophic consequences for the ecosystem, we wonder why we continue to bet on a form of expensive, dangerous and archaic energy, having the possibility to bet on new renewable energies. Why does the People's Party insist on refusing to recognize long-established facts, such as those that have happened in the Gulf of Mexico or in the Ecuadorian jungle, where the interest of oil companies goes beyond the interests of peoples and humanity in general? Why does the People's Party defend the interests of oil companies rather than the interests of the peoples and nationalities of Spain? Above all, knowing that today there is technology needed to further develop photovoltaic energy, wind energy and even more use should be made of the force of the sea in the pleamar and the low seas, since as long as there is moon and sun these energies will be inexhaustible. Given, moreover, that the economy of the Canary Islands is unique to tourism and fishing, why should we choose an adventure that will surely destroy the wealth of the Canary Islands rather than preserve, promote and protect them? For Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, it is a pride to give support here today to the people of the Canary Islands, who have so brilliantly and correctly opposed these projects from the very beginning that they undermine the integrity of their islands. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will support this motion. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. For the Socialist Group, Mr Franquis Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to the debate a motion from Podemos which, among other things, comes to gather the contributions of the debate that took place in the Parliament of the Canary Islands a few months ago. We identify ourselves with this motion because many of its points reflect the amendments that the Socialist Group has tabled in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. In addition, there are some agreements that I think I recall that in June 2015 were approved in the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment of this Congress on the creation of a sanctuary for cetaceans off the coasts of the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. The problem is that the Government that passed this GNP on that occasion has not been able to carry it out. With clarity and humility we have been defending for eighteen years our position against oil explorations in the Canary Islands; eighteen years. That is why I welcome some political forces that are today supporting and advocating that oil explorations in the Canary Islands should not be allowed. In 2001, we opposed an initiative, an authorization from Mr Aznar's Government, and we did so again in 2012 with the Rajoy Government, which were the shields of the interests of the multinational Repsol in our country. The Canary Islands is again at environmental risk with this initiative of the Moroccan Government and, unfortunately, the best ally that the Canary Islands could have is precisely the Government of Spain, because we have to say clearly that the Government of Spain, the Government of Mr Rajoy, of the People's Party, is legitimate to defend the interests of our community, but they have been unable to understand in eighteen years the special sensitivity that exists in the Canary Islands with this type of action; that in the Canary Islands we have assumed, what we have never assumed is the double language that the Government has historically had with our community. When they were defending oil explorations in the Canary Islands just four years ago, in Valencia or in the Balearic Islands they were defending exactly the opposite, so we have never been able to understand how the PP government has always defended oil explorations in our community with that speech. We now need a strong government, a government with the capacity to intervene not only with Morocco, but also in the European Union, as was done when Morocco proposed in 2007 the possibility of building a nuclear power plant on its territory, and thanks mainly to the intervention of the European Union we managed to have Morocco renounced the construction of that nuclear power plant in 2012. We are in a position to go to the European Union again, but the Government, when it has had to act, has always done so against the interests of our community, and I say of our community, because when it has had to defend the same position vis-à-vis other autonomous communities it has done exactly the opposite. That is why it is good for this Parliament today to come up with a clear response and support against oil explorations taking place in our autonomous community. Our view is that not only does it intervene through the European Union, but it is done directly with the Moroccan Government. It is not a question of entering into any discussion or litigation with the Moroccan Government; on the contrary, we must seek their cooperation, because we are aware that this is a neighbouring country and that we must seek spaces for collaboration, for meeting - that is the responsibility of the political forces - that will allow us to continue to comply with the conclusions of the United Nations on climate change. It would be good if the European Union - we know that the Spanish Government is not going to do so because it is not in that, it is in other things - could be able to transfer to the Moroccan Government, as it did four years ago in connection with the construction of the nuclear power plant on its territory, the importance of continuing to rely on renewable energy. It is essential that this Government truly believes that it is possible to stop prospecting in dialogue with the Moroccan Government and primarily with the intervention of the European Union. It is true that there have been nine meetings between Spain and Morocco on the famous waters of delimitation and that we have been unable to agree, but the legal reality on these territories is different today from that of a few years ago. That is why I am surprised that the foreign minister the other day was not able to lift the head of his role to give us the explanation that canarian society least expected. It's over, President. We will logically support this motion, because it coincides with what the Socialists have historically defended for eighteen years, from the government and from the opposition, so I welcome many political forces who today defend the same in this Congress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Franquis. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rise to this rostrum to set the position of my parliamentary group on the motion of the Podemos Group, where I believe there are two maxims that once again unite in their way of opposing: alarmism and lack of rigour. Alarmism, with statements such as that the granting of prospecting permits will serve for the perforation and destruction of the sea bed in an ecologically protected enclave and that there is no technical possibility of stabbing the sea floor without causing damage to underwater life; two statements circulating both in their motion and in the inquiry they made to the Minister of Foreign Affairs the other day. The minister himself has already replied that this is only the signing of an agreement between the National Hydrocarbons and Mines Office of the Government of Morocco and the company ENI International Morocco, which allows for prospecting with various methods that Mrs Cárdenes has described as serious attacks on the environment and harmful to the ecosystem, non-invasive methods, such as magnetometrics. But do you know what magnetometric methods are? Do you know that what they measure are differences in the natural magnetic field depending on the mineral that is underground? Do you know that gravimetric methods are used simply because of the difference in gravity, or that photogravimetric methods, which are used to measure the soil of the sea bed by means of 3D photographs, are used to see geological differences where oil deposits can be found? Do you really believe that all of them are harmful to the marine ecosystem when they are not invasive and do not involve any drilling? There is a lack of rigour and alarm in his motion. There is a lack of rigour when they say that information on the Community's place of interest for the Indemares project must be updated, when even the Citizens' Group has said that there is an extension of the European Union's LIFE project up to 2024 and that it already provides for the implementation of new protected areas within Spanish territorial waters, not in the territorial waters of a third State such as Morocco. That is true, if you are talking about extending the designation of these protected areas to the African coast, we have already answered that we cannot do so, either with our legislation or with that of Morocco or with that of the European Commission, since the criterion of equidistance between the continent and the Canary Islands is used to fix territorial waters and therefore this site - or potential site - would be in eminently Moroccan territorial waters. I also speak of a lack of rigour because they call in their motion for the Government of Spain to ensure, as if it did not ensure, compliance with the constitutional, community and international requirements established for marine diversity. But if it was the Ministry of the Environment that in 2015 - and it seems that no parliamentary group knows it - implemented a state plan to protect the seashore against pollution, which is precisely that contingency plan, in case there were any kind of spill that affected one or several Spanish autonomous communities. Alongside this, there are other important measures. From 2000 to 2004, the Government of the People's Party in the International Maritime Organization established that large oil vessels crossed only two major routes through the Canary Islands; one through Gran Canaria and Tenerife and another through Gran Canaria and Fuerteventura, not anywhere. These shipping lines were set by a People's Party Government. In 2013 we proposed an amendment to the Environmental Assessment Act so that the eight hundred prospections that have so far been, many of them - the vast majority - unsuccessful, are made through a seismic assessment that was not so far mandatory in environmental assessment laws. They also say that we do not want to encourage the use of new technologies for energy. But if the biggest product that exports Spain to Morocco is electricity through the submarine cable that communicates us with Morocco! Thanks to our energy mix they also participate in this use of renewables that has been promoted so much during the last twenty years in Spain. There is also a lack of rigour in ignoring the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, where Spain and Morocco have signed that States are sovereign for such explorations and also for farms, but always respecting international environmental laws, which is what the open cable between the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Morocco, as well as with the Government of the Canary Islands, aims to ensure by providing continuous information on what the Moroccan Government is doing in its territorial waters - which we have to respect - but also by communicating to the citizens and the autonomous Government of the Canary Islands to make them aware of this. In any case, alarmism and lack of rigour that the Group of the European People's Party is not going to endorse with its vote, so we will oppose this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u115	Thank you very much, Mr González Terol. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Pita Cárdenes whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u116	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u117	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America, on the reform process of the common agricultural policy which is open within the framework of the European Union, as well as the position of the Government and the negotiations on compliance. [[CAP]] [[File number 173/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u118	We continue with the motion of urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the process of reforming the common agricultural policy which is open within the framework of the European Union, as well as on the position of the Government in the negotiations on this matter. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u119	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of common agricultural policy to our rural world, to our countryside and to the people who live there. In addition, I believe that we are already aware - we spoke about it the other day - of the importance of the common agricultural policy for sectors such as livestock or agriculture and its relevance to society as a whole which demands, among other things, healthy and quality food. Contrary to what the minister says in this House and in the media, our group wants a strong agricultural policy, of course, but also a cohesive and just agricultural policy. It seems that the only group that does not realize, that does not know the general questioning of the common agricultural policy, is the group of the Government, the People's Party; a questioning that reaches it from all sectors, both from those directly affected and from the rest of society. It is clear to us that if we want to maintain the centrality of a common agricultural policy within the framework of the European Union, it is essential that its development is in line with a series of objectives that do not simply aim to improve and benefit a minority of landowners but benefit all producers. What are these objectives, in our opinion? The right to healthy and nutritious food; maintenance of fair incomes for the sector; maintenance of agricultural assets; generation of employment in rural areas; transparency and justice in the functioning of the food chain; combating depopulation or contributing to climate change mitigation. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the Government and the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u120	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. This is the last item on the agenda, which is no less worthy of attention. I would ask you, please, to respect the speaker. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Gómez-Reino.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u121	We told the members of the People's Party government that every time we listen to the minister, it seems to us that the farmers and the farmers with whom we speak do not have the same interests - I would even say that they have opposite interests - as the large exporting companies that you protect with your policies. What we understand you to do is to listen carefully to what the producers, the farmers and the farmers say. What do you think? What does the survey that the European Commission launched and in which it collected more than 355,000 responses reflect? What they say is that 88% are aware that farmers have incomes below the average; that 89% consider that the CAP has done little or very little to contribute to a fair standard of living in the countryside; that 97% of farmers receive a price far below what is fair for their products and that the CAP has done nothing to mitigate this situation; that 89% think that the CAP should contribute in another way, in a clearer way, to the challenge of rural development, to job creation and to the fight against depopulation and, finally, on all these things, 88% is clear, very clear, that the distribution is unfair and considers it absolutely necessary to limit aid to the large beneficiaries, to end - as we said last week - once and for all with the farmers in the living room. And yes, scandalous data about the great collectors, about the Albas, about the Domecqs, about the Mercadona have to end at once in this country. [[Applauds]] The reform of the CAP must establish common principles, but it also clearly states that States are solely responsible for their implementation and distribution. In this regard, we again ask you to read the reports of the Commission itself, reports that show the disparities in implementation between countries; reports that show the room for manoeuvre that States already have; reports that show data like these. I will give you three: in Spain the average CAP collector receives 5600 euros; in France, 20 900 and in Germany, 165 000. The essential issue here is to clear up who has the right to collect the CAP; the reality is that here the CAP is charged by anyone, even if it has not trampled on a land or a garden in its life. It is a question of clearly defining, in our view, the concept of a professional farmer and not making it malleable so that the Domecq, so that the Albas, so that the Mora-Figueroa or that Mercadona can be the biggest recipients of this Community public aid. Furthermore, we believe that the CAP should include market regulation measures, a key issue because 96% of the people consulted, most of them people in the sector, believe that the CAP has to address in a decisive way the position of farmers and farmers in the value chain, because that is where we play the future of these people, of these families and of the rural environment. And yes, you have to say, every time you unconditionally accept free trade treaties or every time you protect the large food distribution, betray the sector, betray our people in the field and also betray the values of the CAP. Without this type of market regulation, and it must also be said, farmers, the milk of Galicia and of the whole cantabrian cornice, the sweet fruit or almond sector or rabbit producers will disappear, as happened this year when two dairy farms in Galicia have disappeared every day. In this context, we understand that the time has come for the debate to be broadened, not to be cut off, to be broadened. A debate that we are supposed to have before the citizens about what we do with EUR 45 billion and 75% of the budget for all public investment in the primary sector and in rural development seems essential to us. That debate cannot be stolen from the seat of popular sovereignty, from the Congress of Deputies. We need debate, we need the opinion of all the organizations and sectors and we need something more than your Government does, which is to keep everything as it is. There are ideas and new proposals and, in addition, contrary to what the minister says, there are negative votes from autonomous governments to the documents you raise of consensus and conciliation. Today we listened to the minister say that the People's Party is the party of the countryside and agriculture but we say that it is the party of the countryside, of agriculture and also of poverty in the countryside and of the destruction of hundreds of thousands of livestock farms throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, who also had a lot of responsibility in maintaining this policy through their negotiation for decades, I ask you, is anyone here going to vote against a fairer CAP? Is anyone in this House going to vote in favour of the old oligarchies remaining the ones who benefit most from this common agricultural policy? Will anyone in this House vote in favour of us being robbed of the debate on the common agricultural policy? We hope not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. To defend the amendments made by your groups, Mr Cantó García del Moral intervenes, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the CAP must increase agricultural productivity by promoting technical progress; it must ensure adequate living standards for farmers and, in addition, protect genuine farmers from those in the living room; it must stabilise markets, as climate change, drought and torrential rains make it more necessary than ever; it must guarantee food availability and must ensure that a percentage of aid is reversed in the exploitation and is destined for environmental improvements. That is why we believe that progress must also be made on very important things, and that is why we have put forward proposals in the House which have to do with the current regulatory reform on agri-food co-operativeism, with the simplification of administrative procedures and with the unification of state powers on the management of veterinary services. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u124	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u125	We have also introduced a GNP to alleviate depopulation and enhance rural development. Gentlemen of Podemos, you have to look more not at what you say but at what you do. The truth is that you remember Europe only when it distributes resources. They then demonise Europe when it talks about public accounts control, when it talks about free trade agreements or the defence of competition. You flirt with pseudosciences and criticize technical advances in agriculture. [[Applauds]] The facts, gentlemen of Podemos, are that you and your policies have proved to be harmful in those places where you rule or support a government. I'll give you an example. In Valencia, by the hand of Compromís, you support a garden law that does what it does to dictate to Valencian farmers what they should do and how they should do their work. They stop installing more greenhouses, tell them what to do with their animals, and even tell them what fruits or vegetables to plant. You have been talking about discussing with the farmers, but the truth is that there, in Valencia, you are proposing a law that expropriates the land and the use of the farmers and forces them to lease the land. This is what you like to do, to ban, to expropriate, the 'Venezuelan expropiese' and, finally, to force. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the new ladies and gentlemen want to tell farmers how to do their job of replicating a garden they long for. The new left-hand men, yeah, laugh. [[Laughter]] The new left-wing gentlemen don't want farmers, they want gardeners. [[Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause.-Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause Confederal Group of United We Can-In Common May-In Sea]] Gentlemen of Podemos, if you want gardeners or landscapers, pay for it with your money, but let our farmers do their job. [[Applauds]] You want to ban free trade agreements that would help our farmers to exploit and export their products better. [[A honourable Member: Come now!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u126	Wait a minute, Mr. Singing. Please, be quiet. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Cantó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u127	You, along with your secessionist friends, deceive Catalan farmers by telling them that nothing happens with CAP aid and leaving Europe, nothing happens. You talk about co-operativeism while your Compromís partners boycott the Consum cooperative for speaking in Spanish. This is what you do with cooperatives. [[Applauds]] You are blocking budgetary arrangements that would speed up the work of a Mediterranean corridor that would allow our farmers to export being more competitive and you forget that it is the engineers who helped farmers feed the world today and alleviate their famines. It is all right to defend organic farming, it is all right, we also defend it; in fact, we are leaders in Europe in organic farming but, above all, Mr de Podemos, we are bought by the Germans and, do you know who, too? Those who have the most money in Spain and you, demonizing the other agriculture, forget the progress our farmers have made, who are increasingly using less pesticides and less water. Look, I did the test and I bought it at the Mercadona and the eco shop in my neighborhood, and in the eco shop it cost me twice as much. You're elitists. [[Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause.-Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause Confederal Group of United We Can-In Common May-In Sea]] I already know what to say Mercadona bothers you; you and your friends in Esquerra bother you to talk about Zara, although then Mr. Rufian goes to Zara's ears. [[Citations from the Citizens Parliamentary Group.-Citations from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-In Marea.-Citations from Mr. Rufián Romero.-Laughter]] It bothers you to say Coca-Cola, even if Mr. Spinar takes them from two to two. [[Laughter]] Mr. Baldoví would probably only enter Mercadona with two lines of garlic around his neck. [[Laughter and applause]] But I want to remind you one thing and I'm done. Lords of Podemos, ideology is not a good fertilizer; in fact, ideology does not produce better crops, its ideology is not only not a good fertilizer but it is a plague that destroys crops and countries where it goes, its ideology has created famines. So, while the People's Party continues to worship immobilism, while the People's Party places friends, like Mrs Edelmira Barreira - to whom they will pay 100 000 euros a year because she is a friend of the vice president - for doing nothing, being commissioner of the demographic challenge in the field. While the PP makes immobilisation and, at best, takes out a saint from time to time and you talk about ideology, which is another kind of religion, we tell you that what the field needs is science and some parties and a government, that if you do nothing, at least don't bother. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause.-Citizens' Parliamentary Group applause Confederal Group of United We Can-In Common May-In Sea]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u128	Thank you, Mr. Cantó. We continue with the debate. Mr González Ramos has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll be seeing a lot of farmers. We are, of course, talking about a very serious issue, such as the future of the CAP: whether there will be cuts or no cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for me to say that the agricultural sector in our country is extremely important. It is a strategic sector that needs to be taken care of and pampered. The transformation of its products leads us to an agri-food industry which is the first industrial sector in Spain since it accounts for 20,5 % of net sales of product and 18 % of employment with a production value of more than EUR 45 billion compared to the total Spanish industry. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore faced with a key strategic sector for the Spanish economy. It will soon be subject to a new regulatory framework with a reform of the Community's agricultural policy, which currently provides aid to 900,000 beneficiaries in our country. The CAP is key to ensuring the future of our agriculture and rural environment. We play around EUR 5000-55 billion per year for direct payments, accounting for 21.40 % of Spain's agricultural income; and EUR 8.3 billion for rural development. The indicative reform proposal put forward by the Commission in its communiqué of 27 November, addressed to the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, would mean a new system of support for farmers based on greater subsidiarity, reduce the budget for our agriculture by giving Member States the power to introduce mandatory and voluntary rules tailored to each country. The translation of this new reform proposal is based on ideas put forward by the Commission for the progressive dismantling of one of the few common policies currently in place in the European Union. Faced with this situation, the Government of the People's Party and its Minister Tejerina in particular are giving worrying evidence of immobility, lack of initiative and political leadership. It's so important that we play it that we can't risk you negotiating alone. We have an obligation even to protect them if necessary! And demand accountability for your position as a government in this negotiation. The Socialist Group makes it clear that the Spanish Government must maintain a firm position in defence of the Community agricultural budget by not accepting - I insist: not accepting - any agreement involving a reduction in agricultural funds or the renationalisation of Community aid. We also have some clear objectives. We will be at your side - that of the Government - if they promote in this negotiation a strengthening of the position of producers by creating new instruments for price stabilization that avoid the inferior position of farmers and livestock farmers vis-à-vis markets and distribution. In addition, for the Socialist Group, the defence of the maintenance of the CAP budget must help to ensure the generational empowerment and inclusion of women in our field, to combat territorial inequalities and depopulation, to create insurance for the stabilization of agricultural incomes, to make a clear commitment to rural development, to promote research and development programmes, among others. In short, the Socialist Group is committed to a model of sustainable agriculture from a social, economic and environmental point of view. For all that and for that they will be able to count on our support. But to this government, Mr Rajoy's, I have to tell you that they are experts in offering the excuses of the bad payers. If there is drought, they trust in the sky and are not able to bravely cope with efficient, sustainable and supportive management of our water resources. If the highways collapse with thousands of people caught in the snow, it is simply the fault of the users. If there is a problem of corruption and illegal financing, they expel their protagonists and thus cease to be a party problem. And if they ask for legislation to end the wage gap between men and women, they argue that it is best not to talk about it and that you are no one to say what everyone has to charge. With these examples, what I'm telling you is that for this negotiation, we don't want any excuses from bad payers in the end. Seek support and alliances, dialogue with the sector and with the professional agricultural organizations, give prominence to the political activity of this House, and thus they will not be alone in defending a reform of the peace that guarantees the future of our agricultural sector, its incomes, the families and the peoples living in it. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament, apart from having small differences, what I propose here from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is that we tell the People's Parliamentary Group, its Government, that not one euro less for Spanish farmers and farmers, not one euro less for the agri-food sector, not one euro less for rural development, not one euro less for Spanish agriculture. [[Applauds]] To all those farmers and farmers who are watching us today, who are very clear that we are not going to give in, that this country has the support it deserves and is no more than the present. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u130	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. The changes in the common agricultural policy following the end of the current period ending in 2020 threaten to shake the future of our farmers and livestock farmers by the new financial mechanisms to be applied in the European Union; further shakes also by the side effects of the Brexit, the UK's exit, which will be a major drop in Community budgets to which the CAP has a substantial share. In fact, last week the European Commissioner for Budgets, the German Günther Oettinger, made progress in referring to the CAP that the funds will be cut by between 5 and 10 % from 2021 with the new financial framework, which, he said, will force new adjustments. In any case, the entry into force on 1 January of the Omnibus Regulation, an interim reform of the CAP, already raises demands on direct payments, rural wages and common market organisation, among other things, which will already affect the declarations in 2018 of all farmers and livestock farmers. It should be recalled that in the specific case of Asturian farmers there has already been a major reduction in direct payments of CAP aid in recent years, which affected three out of every five farms in Asturias, more than 11,000 in total, which are late, bad and never. In view of the fact that cattle, meat and milk farming accounts for 77.7% of Asturias' farming activity compared to 10.7% of Spain's average, it is essential for Forum to provide our farmers with guarantees to ensure their stability and competitiveness, and it is therefore necessary to demand that the less-favoured and mountain areas should not be relegated to aid allocation, as has been the case during the current CAP period, which penalised the regions of the whole cantabrian cornice. A common agricultural policy which once again discriminates against Asturias would be unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cantó never leaves indifferent. See if it never leaves us indifferent that it is able to sign a transactional - here is its signature - and dedicate itself to insulting every god. It's amazing, Mr. Singing. [[Applauds]] Mr. Singing, if there's a young man in this House, that's you. [[Applauds]] You are a young man, a young man who represents Valencian interests and has no idea of Valencian agriculture. Hey, hey, hey, hey, [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Besides, I tell you something else: he's a liar, a sham, an arsonist, that's what he is. And I'm gonna tell you why. [[Applauds]] You just told me I'd go to a market with a garlic strip. Look, Mr. Singing, I wouldn't tell you that, I have much more education than you do. I don't have a problem going to Mercadona, I went there yesterday to buy, without any problem, I don't drop the rings. As for what he said about Consum, it is a lie and I refer you to my tweet, the tweet I made of the Consum cooperative where I kindly asked him to reconsider, to reconsider. You're a liar. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Don't Lie]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u134	Mr. Singing, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u135	I'm finishing up. Look, the Valencian camp... [[Rumors]] I am going to talk about Valencia not like you, not like you. I am talking about Valencia, the Autonomous Community of Valencia. [[Applauds]] Look, the Valencian countryside leads the loss of land. We had 190 000 hectares lost, abandoned, 582 last year; we were the only autonomous community that lost. The Valencian countryside has lost 30 000 beneficiaries, 30 000 in CAP aid, 30 000 in the last five years because of the agreement to leave the dossiers of less than EUR 300 out. Fruits and vegetables are predominant in the Valencian countryside, and fruits and vegetables are not in the CAP and should be. That is why what we are asking for is that, as fruit and vegetables represent - I finish already - about 84% of exports - half of Spanish exports in agriculture - the Valencian countryside has a presence in the CAP: fruit and vegetables. This is coming here to talk about solutions; what you do is banter, always. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u136	Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. After Mr Cantó's B-series comedy club, we're going to talk a little bit, if you will, about common agrarian policy. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You will remember that there were series B and even series Z and we do not know whether it is series B or series Z. We will therefore defend a common agricultural policy, which is one of the treasures of what works well in Europe, in contrast to other instruments which could have achieved European integration and which has not occurred, for example, as the creation of an integrated market in the field of energy. [[Rumors]] We support this motion as a result of questioning because we generally agree with it, with the need for the new CAP to also be a food policy, a policy on food quality; for the new CAP to also involve greater involvement of this Parliament, the parliamentaryisation of debates, and also the vote by this Parliament on certain mandates in the European negotiation, which is taking place in the Joint Committee for the European Union but which should take place more systematically. And also because this motion of inquiry raises how the reduced CAP funds for the period 2015-2020 will be distributed within the whole of Spain, what are the distribution criteria, how the new CAP impacts with a reduction of 250 million euros compared to the field in Catalonia, a reduction of 14%, ten times less than the average reduction of the whole of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have time for much more. I conclude, also like Mr Baldoví, expressing my deep perplexity that someone who defends and supports a transactional with his signature at the same time is able to go up to this rostrum to defend just the opposite. A little more science, Mr. Singing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. I ask you again to remain silent, as we are at the end of the sitting, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. We can put to us a motion on which principles should govern the negotiation of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. It is right to lay down principles, it is right to lay down criteria and lay down bases, I think it is something fundamental and we must do so. However, this motion - although I share some of its approaches - has a form defect that generates a bottom defect: one cannot present a motion with twelve points - that I now see the transaction and instead of twelve, and two more hard eggs, are fourteen points - that asks to subscribe or reject. Obviously, this flaw in how to bring in so many points in a motion that you have inherited from the PSOE - which was very much given to bring in these kinds of motions with so many points - creates problems; it creates many problems because it expands and not concrete and allows more discrepancy than accession, because you will understand that with so much point having a total adherence to them all is very complicated. I am going to differ and I have questions to raise from the discrepancy with you, but for that I will not insult you, for that there is already the north bottom. In any case, another subcommittee does not, please, I think we already have a few and it is not always the solution to all the problems. When I say disagree it's from tolerance but I disagree on some issue. You in Podemos always talk about sustainability - it is one of the points you usually raise - to our understanding only refer to environmental sustainability or at least that is what you prioritize, and we feel very well about environmental sustainability, but we think it is necessary to note that sustainability must always have a triple vision: social, economic and environmental. In our case it is clear that we are going to defend the economic profitability of farmers because we believe that it is essential, because we believe that it is necessary. Last week at Gipuzkoa General Councils your party filed a motion to dismiss the Montes director of Gipuzkoa's Diputation, saying that she was against what she should do and that she did not meet the requirements that she had, because you know what? The two majority farmers' unions of Gipuzkoa were presented in front of the headquarters of the General Councils to reject their proposal and to defend the policy that in agrarian matters defended the Diputación, and in their note, a note that they sign ENBA and EHNE, both to the motion of you, of Podemos, and that of Bildu, they said: Those who cultivate the land and lend our livestock we are the ones who make ecological truth, we create oxygen for our society, food and water, it is time to clarify what we really want to protect. In addition, this weekend an article appeared in a Basque newspaper signed by Felipe Lizaur, secretary of the foresters of Guipúzcoa, which comes to say more or less: Lords of Podemos, that we are not predators of ourselves neither the foresters nor those we cultivate nor those we propose that in the forests there be productive material. We have to change that chip. Obviously, we agree with many of the issues you raise. We see that it is necessary to make a much closer CAP, and for that to happen, we believe that it is precisely necessary to highlight, for example, the power of the Basque Government to mark its own policy. Everything does not have to be done by the central government. We would already like to be able to negotiate directly with Brussels, which is not always done by the central government, because it is the agricultural policy which is transferred here to the Community of Euskadi and within its limits is the one which is closest to its own farmers, which knows what their needs are, which knows what demands they need. We would therefore have liked them to have also requested that the competence and autonomy of some Governments, such as the Basque Government, could be reflected. In any case, some points are understandable, defendable and valid, but change a little bit. Farmers who produce and generate wealth also defend nature. Besides, they're the ones who do it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u140	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Carreño Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin as you have finished, Your Honor. The People's Party is the party of the countryside, the party that has always defended farmers and will always, always, defend them. Always. [[Applauds]] You, gentlemen of Podemos, want to be the focus of attention always and now you want to be the focus of a negotiation that the government has already launched over a year ago. If you consider European policy to be so important, tell me what you have done in the European Parliament to improve the CAP since you have responsibilities there, because it has certainly not transcended anything of your activity. Now they tell us how to negotiate in Europe. I know you want to be more rural now than anyone else, but, well, everyone wants to be what they want to be, but do you really know what their scumbag is? The same that other parties have: let them advance. They should be given ideas, projects and policy, and in this case agricultural and environmental policy. You cannot be the protagonists of one of the most complex and long-distance negotiations, because you do not know and because neither have you ever done so and, moreover, because the position and principles that must be integrated into the CAP reform negotiations must be set at the Sectoral Conference on Agriculture and Rural Development by consensus between the ministry and the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen. The most important thing, which leaves this motion obsolete, is that there is already a first common position adopted at the sectoral conference on 24 April 2017, ladies and gentlemen, which sets out the general principles to which the Spanish position must contribute during the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not the protagonists, but the farmers and farmers, our agri-food sector, which has a great strength. [[Applauds]] You do not believe in the agri-food sector or in what you have achieved in our country, because you despise it where you have some responsibility. Besides, what they do is they put some bad guys and some less bad guys. But they have no doubt that this government and this parliamentary group will always do their best for our farmers and livestock farmers, as they have already done. The Government will work towards a new CAP that is strong and has an appropriate budget that maintains the stability of farmers' and farmers' incomes. The only thing that this motion does is to give us the opportunity to remind the Socialist Party that it is right to demand that the Government be involved in the negotiation - which has been so for a year now with the position adopted at the sectoral conference - but I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that during the Spanish Socialist Government in the debate on the CAP it was neither expected nor expected. Not one euro less you say now, but if we lose more than EUR 47 billion for political laziness, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] Thank you that the People's Party government returned to negotiate and make alliances. Do you know what he did from the very beginning when he was at the head of agricultural policy? He made a strategy to turn him around to a model of socialist proposal that was very damaging to the interests of the Spaniards. Do you know what's clear? That the agreement reached by the People's Party Government in 2012 with all the autonomous communities has ensured the stability of the Spanish agricultural sector, the viability of our farms and the competitiveness of our productive sectors in all these years. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a sector that is a world leader in many of our products. While a left-wing government with more budget in the European Union brought fewer funds, a People's Party government with less budget has brought more funds. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That is the model of this Government, which has managed to place Spain on the map of the countries of the European Union that defend the common agricultural policy, with a better position and great prestige. Ladies and gentlemen, you are of course defending the important role of direct support for the maintenance and stability of our farmers' incomes and are strengthening the position of producers in the food chain, addressing the problem of depopulation in rural areas and generational relief, offering opportunities to young people and women, promoting innovation, combating climate change and protecting our environment. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we must defend the CAP. It is time for partnerships to build on what our farmers and farmers do, what they contribute and what they mean for sustainability and rural development. It is time to influence and work with the Member States, because there is something very clear: the CAP has come to stay, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreño. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr GómezReino Varela whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u143	We have presented a compromise to the House's lawyers with the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u144	We shall take this into account for the votes. The items on the agenda have been completed... [[Mr Cantó García del Moral asks for the floor]] Yes, tell me, Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u145	I would like to ask very briefly to ask Mr. Baldoví to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions... [[Several Members: No!- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u146	No, no, No, no, Mr. Singing, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u147	Mr President, for Rule 71. I would like to ask for this article that Mr Baldoví agrees to withdraw the word 'liar' from the Journal of Sessions, because I can show that Members of Parliament from Compromís said that they boycotted the Consum cooperative for speaking in Spanish, and Councillors from Compromís did the same with a bar in Burjassot for not using the Valencian. Then I ask Mr. Baldoví to withdraw the word 'liar'. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u148	All right, Mr. Singing. Sit down. [[Rumors]] Silence, please; I beg the rest of you to remain silent. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u149	Not only do I not withdraw it, but I also reaffirm myself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u150	All right. After the debate on the items on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. We vote, first of all, on the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 134 votes in favour, 160 votes in favour and 161 votes in favour, 161 abstentions, 47.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u152	It's rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TRANSPARENCY IN PRE-DISPOSED CONTRACTION, AMENDING ACT No. 1/2007 OF 16 NOVEMBER, APPROVING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE GENERAL LAW FOR THE DEFENCE OF CONSUMER AND USERS AND OTHER COMPLEMENTARY LAWS, ACT No. 7/1998 OF 13 APRIL, OF GENERAL CONTRACTION CONDITIONS, ACT No. 50/1980, OF 8 OCTOBER, OF SECURITY CONTRACTION AND THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION No. 4/2015 OF 23 OCTOBER, APPROVING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE VALUE MARKET LAW. [[File number 122/00142]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u153	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the promotion of transparency in the procurement arrangements, amending Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007 of 16 November, approving the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws, Law 7/1998 of 13 April, on General Conditions of Recruitment, Law 50/1980 of 8 October, on Insurance Contract and Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 207 votes in favour, 208 votes against, 133 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u154	It was approved for consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u155	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. First of all... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Look how easy it is to be silent! No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the recovery for the public of toll freeways. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 178 against, 3 abstentions, 160.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u156	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE WILL TO INVESTIGATE THE PERPETRATED BARCELONA AND CHANGES IN AUGUST 2017. [[File number 162/000574]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u157	No law proposal of the Citizen Parliamentary Group, on the will to investigate the attacks perpetrated in Barcelona and Cambrils in August 2017. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández asks for the floor]] Mr. Bermúdez de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u158	Madam President, we wanted to ask for a separate vote in order to support the second point of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u159	Thank you very much. Since the proposer has not requested a separate vote, it will be carried out in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 30 against, 238 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u160	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u161	We shall continue with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. We are voting, first, on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the position of the Government with regard to the recent granting of exploration permits to the multinational oil company ENI in the Tan Tan basin in Morocco, which will involve the carrying out of prospections that will put the entire socio-ecosystem at risk. We will vote for points, ladies and gentlemen. We began by voting on item two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 200 against, 132 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u162	It was adopted. We voted on point nine. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour 177 against 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u163	It was adopted. We voted on the rest of the motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 200 against, 132 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u164	It was adopted. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America, on the reform process of the common agricultural policy which is open within the framework of the European Union, as well as the position of the Government and the negotiations on compliance. [[CAP]] [[File number 173/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u165	We are voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the process of reforming the common agricultural policy which is open within the framework of the European Union, as well as on the position of the Government and the negotiations on it. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 203 against, 133 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-13-CD180213.u166	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight o'clock at night.
