ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, of 23 November, of payment services and other urgent financial measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy and Enterprise has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like once again to appear before the plenary of this House for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on payment services and other urgent financial measures. As in the past, the main objective of this text is to adapt our legal system to various Community rules, in particular in this case it is a question of transposing four directives and incorporating five regulations which, while directly applicable, as you all know, in the Member States, required a legislative adjustment to ensure legal certainty for all the subjects concerned and to close possible loopholes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u4	As in previous times when I have come to defend before you real decree-laws, all the directives to be transposed are already expired and at different stages of sanctioning procedures, driven by the Community institutions. Hence the urgent and extraordinary need that forces us to use the figure of the royal decree-law. Before going on to expose the content, let me give you an overview in this area. As you know, since the first day I came to the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise we have prioritized adapting our legal system to European legislation because, ten years after the start of the economic crisis, there is no justification for not yet strengthening our regulatory framework in key areas such as the protection of financial customers, the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, or the guarantee that workers can retain their pension rights even if they change jobs. You will recall that I presented in this very rostrum a table that we used a little as a guide from where we are in the process of transposing the directives, a table that synthesizes the state of transposition. Well, today I bring an updated version of this table, which allows us to see from the point of departure, when we arrived, those directives that were pending transposition or at an early stage of this transposition and what is the state of transposition today. [[Shows a graph in each hand]] It seems to me to be a very eloquent message, which says a lot about the good work that has been done precisely in this parliamentary seat. And this is the first message I wanted to send today, I wanted to pay tribute to the work that is being done in this House and in particular in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in which the various parliamentary groups have allowed, thanks to the validation of the various royal decrees-laws - we have presented four to transpose nine directives - we have taken a very important step to close this phase of incorporation into Spanish legislation of the whole legislative package that was drawn up in Europe as a result of the crisis. This week, with the agreement reached in the Commission with regard to the law on real estate credit, an important step has also been taken to begin the final stage of transposition of this directive. Without the courage to be very prolific in the explanations because the royal decree-law that we bring today has much content, I begin to tell the main news. The first of the directives we transpose with this royal decree-law is the Directive on payment services in the internal market, which should have been included in our legal system before 18 January 2018. The objective of the Directive is to create an integrated and homogeneous framework for payment services at European level and to address the new challenges and changes posed by new technologies, in particular for card, Internet and mobile payments, and basically to increase user rights and transaction security. User rights and transaction security are our Government's priority objectives. To carry out the transposition we have chosen to create a law of payment services of new plant that repeals that which was currently in force and, moreover, we are working in the ministry in the royal decree and the ministerial order of regulatory development, which will complete the transposition. Some of the main developments in this new law will, as I have pointed out, be the recognition of new rights for citizens. For example, the liability of the payer for losses arising from unauthorized payment transactions will be reduced from EUR 150 to EUR 50, as a result of the use, for example, of a card that has been lost or stolen. The time limits for the resolution of claims are reduced from one month to fifteen days. In addition, the security requirements of customer authentication are reinforced to avoid identity or key theft, among other dangers, very real issues that affect our daily lives and that I am sure all of you, ladies and gentlemen, know firsthand. A regulatory framework is also created that gives consumers greater legal certainty when using these new payment services that they are already operating, such as payment initiators, who are intermediaries offering an alternative to card payments, or account aggregators, who are entities that consolidate all information about the different accounts of the same user and classify it by categories. It was important to include such activities within the regulatory framework so that they could be adequately monitored. It also regulates the provision of payment services through systems such as mobile and establishes requirements for lighter access to the sector for micro-enterprises, for small enterprises, so that there can be innovation and development of fintech in this area. All these changes will drive the integrated framework of payment services at Community level, which will help to consolidate the internal market for the free movement of goods and services, because defining this legal regime conditions and requirements and common rights and obligations enhances the transnational provision of payment services, increasing competition, a topic that is particularly important for the ecosystem of companies in our country that are increasingly exporting to the major markets of the rest of Europe. We also expect positive effects from the implementation of this directive in terms of reducing the irregular economy, as the improvement of security and confidence in this type of services will increase their use compared to cash payments. Finally, lowering costs and launching these new payment services can have a beneficial impact on financial inclusion. The second area of this royal decree-law is the transposition of the Enforcement Directive on market abuse by establishing a channel for complaints of breaches of the corresponding regulation that will enable the National Securities Market Commission to be informed of possible breaches of market abuse legislation, as is already being done under the National Securities Market Act. The third directive that is transposed with this royal decree-law is that of capital requirements or CRD IV, one of the key directives in response to the financial crisis, which expired nothing less than five years ago, in 2013. Although part of the Community legislation is already covered by our legislation, two issues were pending: on the one hand, the complaint channel, so that employees of financial institutions can communicate to the Bank of Spain the deficiencies they have detected in the field of solvency, counting in this process on all the labor guarantees; on the other hand, the establishment of new obligations for the exchange of information by the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission with regard to investment services companies, thereby improving cooperation and coordination between the various competent authorities within the European Union. In order to incorporate these developments into our order, it is necessary to modify both the Solvency Act such as the Capital Market Act. Fourthly, we took advantage of this royal decree-law to correct certain points which the European Commission had considered to be poorly transposed from the Basic Payment Accounts Directive. All that remains is a ministerial order, which I hope to sign soon, and a circular from the Banco de España, which will come into force shortly thereafter. As you know, apart from transposing the Basic Payment Accounts Directive, we are working on a real decree, which has already been subject to public consultation and which goes beyond what is required by the directive, to ensure free access to these basic payment accounts for all vulnerable people. It's one more step in the financial inclusion guarantee. As I said before, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law also serves us to adapt our legislation to a number of Community regulations in order to improve the legal certainty of market operators and the efficiency of their operation. The aim is, in particular, to amend the Securities Market Act to give the necessary legal certainty to the actions already carried out by the National Securities Market Commission in the area of supervision, inspection and sanctioning of relevant conduct related to market manipulation, information on certain transactions carried out with securities or the sale of prepackaged products to retailers, which are particularly complex, those known as PRIPS. On the latter issue, let me stress that it is about improving investor protection tools and setting objective measures to enable them to compare characteristics in similar products produced or marketed in different Member States. The powers of the CNMV and the Banco de España are also required to monitor the benchmarks with the aim of ensuring that their development follows quality methodologies and standards and avoid any form of manipulation and ensure that they faithfully reflect the reality of the market. It is a particularly important matter, since it is a question of ensuring that the indices used as a reference in financial market contracts or operations or used to measure the profitability of certain financial products are developed with transparent and quality methodologies to avoid possible manipulations, such as those we have seen in the past in the case of Libor and Euribor, and that this methodology also ensures that the indices are as close to the reality of the market as possible, building those indices on real transactions. In order to achieve these objectives, the regulation imposes obligations on both those who produce the indexes and those who provide the data on which they are built. And lastly, the Royal Decree-Law also details the infringements and sanctions applicable to non-compliances related to all these issues. Beyond the transposition and adaptation of Community legislation, this royal decree-law includes some additional content necessary to clarify Spanish financial legislation, we include some formal and technical corrections in the text of the Securities Market Act after MiFID II. I would like to point out three of these additional clarifications. First, the sanctioning regime of the Law on the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Credit Institutions is adjusted to match that of credit institutions with that of other payment institutions. In this way, the sanctioning regime will be more effective and aligned with what our European partners and the European Central Bank itself have. The Banco de España had been requesting this alignment of sanctions in order to be able to acquit them with the rest of the European authorities and thus guarantee an effective sanctioning regime to the Spanish institutions. Secondly, the Resolution Act is amended to allow the Computer Bank Restructuring Fund, the FROB, to collect contributions from branches of non-Community entities located in Spain for the National Resolution Fund. In this way, all entities will have to contribute to this fund even if its contribution is small. It is a question of correcting a transposition error that unfortunately left these branches out with the result of a more beneficial treatment of non-Community entities. There is also a gap in the powers and instruments of our national resolution authority, the FROB, to resolve banks from being solvent. Third, credit and financial institutions are excluded from the scope of the right of separation for lack of dividend sharing as recognized in the Capital Companies Act. This is because, according to the European Banking Authority's approach, EBA, if we do not make this change, the shares of these financial institutions could not be considered eligible capital instruments with the consequent impact from the point of view of their liability structure. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by insisting that with this royal decree-law we meet one of the priority objectives for the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise: to complete the transposition of the European legislation which accumulates great delays, which exposes us to considerable fines and which also prevented Spanish citizens so far from having the protection of their rights provided by these Community directives and to ensure that the financial markets are properly monitored. As I said in my introduction, after ten years since the start of the crisis, I think it is time to close the regulatory process that took place precisely in response to this crisis at European level and I would like once again to thank all of you for your good work, thanks to which we have been able to make progress in six months more than in recent years. All these objectives are served by the directives we have transposed through this royal decree-law and I therefore call for the House to vote in favour of its transposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u5	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. The real decree-law that you have just presented, which is very broad and very complex, is also necessary for Spain to make good progress on the European single market objective, in which the establishment of adequate payment services is of particular importance and to this the content of this extensive regulation is very much concerned. This is a regulation that updates what we currently have in force in Spain and is based on Law 16/2009 of 13 November on payment services and the European directives that have been transposed since then. New directives are also being transposed this morning, as Mrs Calviño has just said, and different Community regulations affecting information, transparency and consumer protection are being adapted. The urgency is given because we have been 11 months late and some sanctioning procedure has been opened for Spain to incorporate into its legislative framework the new rules that deepen competitiveness through innovation in payment services and adaptation to digital transformation and the technological tools that facilitate access to users, as well as the essential security not only in operations, but also the necessary legal support through new and good legislation. In any case, we are in a very open field, where the countries of the European Union have difficulties in achieving the regulatory harmony that requires the proper functioning of the single market. This royal decree-law places Spain in the group of countries that advances in the uniformity of the rules concerning payment services, so my vote will be in favour of validation. Although I do not wish to fail to mention the Government of Pedro Sánchez's ill-advised abuse of this procedure under the Royal Decree-Law, which is most likely a consequence of the weak confidence of the Executive in its parliamentary support. It would be reasonable to make use of this mechanism - which has already been used on sixteen occasions in six months - especially in cases of extraordinary and urgent need. Here, today, this triple category of extraordinary, urgent and necessity is achieved because the Government has devoted months and months to drafting this text and submitting it to the validation of Congress. Go to your disclaimer that the accumulated delay comes from behind. Finally, I thank you, Minister, for your good words towards the work of the colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u8	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our vote is going to be favourable because we understand that, although it is true that it is a real complex and dense decree, it has a very important technical component and therefore it is going to have our vote in favour. I would also like to thank you for your words on the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, in turn, I would like to thank you and your team for their commitment and determination to try to recover this unacceptable delay in transposing European legislation. It is true that you, at your first appearance, made a commitment to the Commission to achieve this objective. We understand that they are on the right track and will find our strong support. Here we will not hurt them to use the royal decrees because, as my colleague pointed out earlier, it is fully justified. They will therefore have our support. Let us hope that the other commitments you have made, which were not very few, despite the complexity of this legislature, will be able to implement them, Minister. He knows that if they put them to the groups, beyond the composition at the moment of this House, they will be able to achieve the objectives. Having said that, I am not going to go into the content of the actual decree itself, although I think it is very significant that these five directives, some partially, and four regulations which, as you have said, are, for the most part, already at the start of the sanctioning procedure by the European Commission, but it is particularly relevant as regards the directive on payment services. We believe that it is a necessary step forward not only to create these new payment services, but also to facilitate existing ones because it is an adaptation to the 21st century, but also that, apart from benefiting the consumer and facilitating his payments and economic transactions, it also has a beneficial effect in relation to the fight against fraud because to the extent that we generalize and facilitate all these payment services we are going to reduce cash payments that, as we all know, not always, but can sometimes generate a certain incentive towards tax fraud. Therefore, congratulations, Minister, pass it on to your team as well. In any case, let us hope that the royal decrees of law that enter this House have as much justification as this because it has not always been so. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u10	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this royal decree is to transpose a number of directives whose transposition deadline has expired, to supplement other directives and to adapt the internal legal order to certain Community regulations. The Decree-Law includes the partial transposition of Directive 2015/2366 on payment services in the internal market, the aim of which is to meet the new challenges in payment services arising from new technologies; ultimately, from innovation, and to ensure that such payments made in the European Union, basically by card, Internet and mobile, can be made with the same ease and security as domestic payments in the Member States. Customers' rights are also strengthened, on the one hand, because the amount of liability of the victim user of fraudulent transactions is reduced to 50 euros and the time limits for the resolution of claims are reduced. In addition, security records are strengthened for the authentication of customers or users to prevent identity supplanting or key theft, as the minister has said. The scope of regulation is extended to new payment services, payment initiators and account aggregators. The Royal Decree also supplements the transposition of the Directive on Criminal Penalties for Market Abuse and also Directive 2013/36 on Capital Requirements, including a channel of complaints to report credit institutions' solvency defaults. Certain obligations of the CNMV and the Banco de España concerning the exchange of information are also regulated and cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities of the European Union is improved. Furthermore, this royal decree, as has already been said, adapts to the Spanish legal order several Community regulations to improve the legal certainty and efficiency of market operators, the regulations on benchmarks, on market abuse, on key data documents of packaged retail investment products and insurance-based investment products, on transparency in securities financing and re-use operations and on money market funds. The Royal Decree also establishes a series of technical adjustments for the proper implementation of another set of directives already transposed into our legal system. It must be said that once again the explanatory statement justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law in the need to transpose certain directives into the legal system because the deadline has expired and to complete so many others in order to eliminate regulatory uncertainties that create costs and affect the competitiveness of credit and payment institutions, as well as the ability to attract new payment service providers. In this case, it is also justifiable for us because this maturity is not attributable to your Government, this delay comes from an earlier time. However, and once again, we welcome the fact that the new Government has among its priorities to put an end to these delays and its willingness to transpose directives in time, which has not been achieved so far. Having also seen the picture that the Minister has brought today, we must highlight the work done within such a short period of time and therefore thank her for her commitment and good work. Having said that, our group will vote in favour of validation because this transposition will allow, inter alia, to improve the protection of the rights of users of payment services, to ensure the protection of investors against possible conduct of market abuse and to strengthen the effectiveness of the market for supervision and resolution of financial institutions, as well as to promote innovation by providing, if possible, greater competitiveness of our sector at European level. Once again and lastly, I would like to thank you for your work and your commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u11	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister, deputies and deputies. Once again today we are debating a real decree-law, transposing a European directive on payment services and other urgent financial measures, because we are obliged to do so. With this royal decree they do something again to what we are beginning to get used to - and should not be so - which is to introduce various measures into the same pack, in this case in a ninety-five-page text, so imagine the volume of measures they can include. On this occasion and as a novelty, they incorporate two new payment services, establish an authorisation system that facilitates access to the provision of payment services and have just amended the Securities Market Act to fully adapt it to European law, and so far it seems to us correct. Today we are witnessing a new episode of the PSOE government's strategy of one lime and one sand. Just three weeks ago, they came out as the great advocates of citizenship in the face of abuses by financial institutions by establishing that the tax on documented legal acts should be paid by the bank. But today, Minister, we no longer see this kind face, and it is that in these ninety-five pages of decree there is a sixth final provision amending Law 10/2014, of 26 June, on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions, in which the penalties to the bank in case of an infringement are modified. And it is that in a country whose bailout to the bank is valued and more than 60 billion euros, in a country where the Bank of Spain itself in its last update of the end of November gives for lost more than 42 billion euros of the bailout with public money to the banks, in this country, in the Kingdom of Spain, the sanctions to the bank are reduced, and this, minister, seems outrageous to us. We are perplexed at how the minimum amount applicable in most fines is eliminated and sanctions are lowered below the existing thresholds. They eliminate at least 5 % for very serious infringements and at least 3 % for those considered to be serious infringements, giving the Bank of Spain a greater margin in the minimum required. For minor infringements, the penalty shall be between two and three times the amount of the profits derived from the infringement, where those profits can be quantified twice the amount, once again removing the minimum threshold of 0,5 % of the annual net turnover or EUR 100 000 if this amount is lower. That is why we feel that this gift to the bank is inexhaustible, and therefore we will not vote in favour of this royal decree and we will put forward amendments so that these sanctions are not reduced to the bank. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u13	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Minister, Mrs Calviño. The Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, on payment services and other urgent financial measures, brings us the Government for validation today. Go ahead that my group will support the validation, what happens is that the unprecedented, minister, is that once and for all we use the royal decrees-laws for what were conceived by the constituents; you know, that of extraordinary and urgent necessity. We are very used to using the royal decree because the Government itself generates this extraordinary and urgent need for its delay. I do not say this to you, which is not logically responsible, but it would be very good if, once and for all, the transpositions of the European directives were to come in time and form and we did not arrive, as always, with notice of possible infringement by the late transposition of the directives. Minister, Mrs Calviño, you at your old school were an exemplary, enrollment student of ten, ultimately an applied student. Now, with the change of school, we are coming late and we are presenting a series of reports that are telling us in the European Union that they do not conform to what they want. They'll tell you what she's seen and who she sees. On the subject, this royal decree transposes directly and almost literally Directive 2015/2366 of payment services in the internal market, whose transposition deadline expired last January - the so-called PSD2, as it has told us today - which aims to create an integrated framework in this field at European level, in order to meet the new challenges and changes posed by the means of payment and to ensure the security of transactions, in particular those made with cards, the Internet and mobile phones. It also completes the transposition of Directive 2015/2392 on infringements of market abuse and adapts our Securities Market Act to EU Regulation 596/2014 on market abuse. Entering into concrete elements, the PSD2 takes a further step in the harmonisation of electronic payments in the European Union and its implementation in Spain will entail important developments. Firstly, as you have told us, it includes new and important rights for users of the payment service, something very important. Among them, we can cite the absolute prohibition that businesses carry out so-called surcharges when paid with any electronic payment instrument. PSD2 also limits the liability of users who are victims of fraudulent transactions to a maximum of 50 euros - something very important given that cybercrime crimes are increasing exponentially - and also grants a maximum of fifteen days to resolve any claims between the user and the entity. Another thing that we find very interesting is the equivalence in this royal decree from micro-enterprises to users, especially in the measures of protection and transparency, defining micro-enterprises as entities with less than ten workers and a turnover of less than 10 million. On the other hand, PSD2 tightens the security measures that apply to electronic payments. In this sense, it includes the mandate to perform at least a reinforced authentication to the customer, i.e. an authentication in at least two steps, which comes to be, more or less, that any user should first use an electronic key and then receive an SMS to authenticate any user, any payment or any financial transaction. Finally, what we find most relevant about PSD2 is that it includes the concept of open banking, forcing banks to grant third parties access to their customers' accounts. In return, these third parties will provide new services, which will essentially consist of being able to pay without a payment card - what we call the payment initiation system - and in applications that allow users to see consolidated financial information - what we call account aggregators -. In addition, these third parties must become regulated entities in order to provide these services and will be supervised by the Banco de España, which is very interesting. The addition to the transposition of Directive 2015/2392 on infringements in the abuse of the securities market, whose transposition deadline expired in July 2016 - again we are late - makes it possible to report anonymously to the National Securities Market Commission on breaches covered by the European Market Abuse Regulation. The rule also complements the transposition of the Capital Requirements Directive, which you have clearly stated is known as CR4, whose transposition deadline ended in 2013. Similarly, a complaint channel is included in the Banco de España, whose purpose is to report credit defaults on solvency, and finally, certain obligations are incorporated into the National Securities Market Commission and the Banco de España in the exchange, collaboration and coordination to improve security. Ultimately, the protection of the rights of payment service users is improved, supervisory effectiveness is improved to ensure investor protection, the effectiveness of solvency supervision is increased and investor protection is enhanced by defining the powers that supervisors should have, by promoting innovation and by increasing the competitiveness of our sector vis-à-vis European partners. Although the Royal Decree-Law, as you well know, came into force the day following its publication, most of its provisions will not be applicable until three months from now and, in addition, the open banking will not be required until September 2019. In conclusion, the royal decree-law, minister, almost literally transposes, at the bottom of the letter, the directive of the European Union. I think we've missed some ambition again. We could have done something else. By way of example, you know that some entities claimed that they could be included in the national electronic clearing system. We will be vigilant in the development of regulations and ministerial orders. Returning to the simile of the school, minister, they have been content to be a student of five. You were a student of ten and now you're a student of five scraped. It has not even had the capacity to use its power to go a step further, to put Spain back on the forefront, not to go always lagging behind and have Europe mark us the way. You will have the support of my group today, because the European legislation transposed improves the lives of citizens, because it grants rights, gives benefits to users, gives increasing guarantees in the means of payment of last generation, but, as I told you, we will be very vigilant in the further development of regulations and ministerial orders to ensure that they continue with the philosophy of what European legislation seeks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u15	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u16	Good morning, Madam President, Minister and ladies and gentlemen. We are very grateful for Mr Ramírez's summary of the directive. If we had, this week, that I had been sick with a nephrotic colic, I would have saved myself the additional torture of reading me the royal decree. We are faced with a real decree that comes late again - which is not a problem attributable to your person - but the important thing is not that it comes late because the deadlines are not met, the important thing is that it affects the regulation of a sector that needed this regulation in order to be able to get on to the European competitive level and that demanded this directive. At the same time, this royal decree has sought to curb and modify as far as possible from a sector that has been threatened, such as the traditional banking system. I do not say this, says Mrs Botín herself, who a few months ago, in April, said in an interview with the Financial Times that the directive had to be revised because it generated asymmetric relations between traditional banking and technology companies, as if asymmetry were a value that traditional banking had put into value - worth redundancy - in its relations with customers. The problem, Minister, is that you and I both know that Mrs Botín and, with her, the bank have seen that part of the transposition of the directive benefited them in part, and I will explain myself. Indeed, the directive came to transpose as soon as possible, because it was necessary, an advanced regulatory framework for all that had to do with electronic means of payment, new types of payment service providers and fintech companies. There we find three sectors with conflicting interests that are difficult to reconcile. First, fintechs, which are actually demanding this regulatory framework, need only be consulted in the White Paper on the regulation of the fintech sector in Spain, prepared by AEFI, which raises problems, solutions and the regulatory framework that should be developed. Part of that shows up here. On the other hand, we have the consumer sector, which appears in the directive as the key element in protecting, that is to say that consumers do not have to rely on the means of payment of the traditional banking system - debit cards and credit cards - and other intermediaries in the payments they make, especially on the Internet, and can authorise payment orders directly from their account to the supplier of the goods or services without using means of bank payment and without using intermediaries. This is where the third player in Liza, who is the bank, appears, who sees how his position of almost traditional monopoly in the field of payment services is threatened by the possibility of third parties accessing the accounts without going through their control and, in addition, being able to access the customers' data, with the commercial value that this has. Thus, the core of the problem is settled in the conflict by the commercial use of data through big data, and that is why the bank says that the directive is unfair because it is asymmetric, because they make all the information available to fintech customers, while fintech does not make that information available to banks. Poor bank again! But where does the partial victory of the bank appear in all this? It appears in the comparison between the preliminary draft law that you adopted at the Council of Ministers in May and the text that you bring today in the royal decree-law on this same subject. In that preliminary draft law you included a third final provision, which stated: Every entrepreneur or professional must offer consumers the possibility to use any payment instrument subject to this Payment Services Act as an alternative to cash in transactions that exceed the amount of 30 euros. The available payment instrument shall be announced somewhere visible from the premises, establishment or facilities of the employer or professional. That is to say, you were trying to go beyond what was laid down in the directive, you were trying to increase competition in the payment systems sector and, at the same time, you were trying to curb tax fraud that can occur when payment is made in cash. They were so proud of that step forward that on the Moncloa website itself, the President of the Government, announced this measure as the great advance in the transposition of this directive. What's going on? We are going to the directive and we find that this measure has fallen. Someone didn't feel right to be in charge of payment systems; someone didn't feel right to have to share their information; someone didn't feel right to be in favour of you encouraging the alternative use of other means of payment. Of the three agents, the only one who didn't seem right is the banking system. As the Royal Decree-Law, in general terms, transposes the directive well, our group will vote in favour of its validation, but in order to correct that oblivion that has occurred along the way, we will ask for its processing as a bill. I know you're going to thank me very much, but if you could do a couple of things for this humble Member, besides coming dressed in the corporate colors of my political group, I'd appreciate it. The first is that I ask the Minister of Finance - I finish, president - to be able to answer to an email that Congresswoman Eva García Sempere and I directed to him fifteen days ago to know the state of aid to the area of the regions of Teba and Campillos, because it must seem to her a boring bureaucratic procedure, but for the lives of these people it is very important that they receive such aid as soon as possible. The second thing I ask of you falls within your sphere of competence. I asked the former minister for the State Advocate's report establishing why Caja Burgos, a member of Civic Banking, had to become a bank foundation and where are the arguments explaining why she did and why Cajasol, in Andalusia, did not become a bank foundation. I asked your predecessor, he did not answer me; I asked you formally and informally, he did not answer me. It comes within the reasonable meaning that from your ministry or from any other person you are caught by this humble Member, but what seems to me most serious is that our dear President has asked for amparo by requesting the report in question and you too are caught by the President. [[Rumors]] I no longer do it for myself, but I do it for the president, who is so dear to us all. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much and good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u17	Thank you very much for the Christmas spirit. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u18	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, today we are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, payment services and other urgent financial measures, the aim of which, as the Minister has said, is to transpose four European directives and incorporate five regulations into our national legal system. The urgency of the approval and validation of this Royal Decree-Law is fully justified, especially when one of the directives intended to be transposed has been binding since last January of the same year. It should also be remembered that Spain received a request from the European Commission warning of possible infringements of the same delay. It is a irresponsibility that the previous government accumulates, not only because it is the last State in the Union to transpose this directive, but because of the uncertainty and legal uncertainty generated by both providers and users of this type of services. The minister explained it well. When the change of government took place and the socialist government came in, we found fourteen directives without transposing them into economic matters, ten of them with sanctioning processes. Today, with the painting he has taught us, it seems that all of this has changed in just over six months, so I also congratulate her on the work she has done since her ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I do not know under which tables Mr De Guindos will hide when asked at the European Central Bank about the delay in transposing this or other directives. On the other hand, the regulatory changes included in this Royal Decree-Law will substantially change our country's financial system with structural changes in the payment services market, in the financial sector or in the securities market. According to the data of the National Electronic Compensation System, in Spain, in 2017, with these means of payment, more than 1800 million transactions were reached for an amount greater than or close to 2 billion euros. It was therefore urgent to ensure and strengthen security in such an important sector. The Royal Decree-Law includes important improvements in the protection of payment service users, strengthening security in remote electronic payment operations by card, mobile or even clock. I will not list all the measures because the minister has already done so, but I will mention the two or three that seem to us to be most relevant. Strengthened customer authentication is a positive step, because it will strengthen and try to ensure the maximum safety of users of these services, reducing the risk of fraud and other abuses. Trades are prohibited from requiring a surcharge for using this type of services - which we believe is very positive - and the maximum loss of user responsibility is limited to 50 euros when fraud is committed with operations generated by them. It also guarantees the immediate return to the user of the total amount of an unauthorized transaction and any claims that a user initiates for some type of fraudulent transaction will have to be resolved in less than fifteen days by the financial institution; I believe that is positive. This royal decree is a new law for a new reality that will generate new rights for users. The Royal Decree-Law also extends protection measures to micro-enterprises, which we consider to be positive given the abundance of such societies in our country. With regard to the sixth final provision, the sanctions regime for banking management, supervision and solvency is also being amended, as some of you have already mentioned. The most interesting thing is the empowerment of the complaint channel, the whistleblowing, but it is also the homogenization and harmonization of sanctions in our country with those of the rest of the European Union. It must be borne in mind that minimum sanctions were imposed only by three countries of the European Union, Belgium, Portugal and Italy, and in order to promote and make the sanction system a practical one, what is reflected in this royal decree is positive. All these regulatory changes are necessary for a new reality with more protection, more competition and better access conditions for users and I believe that the urgency of the actual decree is also justified. I will conclude by saying that we are faced with a real dense but merely technical decreeley. We could even say that it is simple, because it only seeks to transpose into our legal system something that we should have transposed several months ago and to what we are obliged to be members of the European Union. Yesterday, one of the spokespersons who spoke during the appearance of the President of the Government stated that in times of political complexity, such as the current one, simple political proposals would have to be chosen. I believe that today's is one of them and that the royal decree would have to be validated by most of you. We understand that, since it is a purely technical text and also - as one spokesman for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs mentioned - for the health of the members of the Commission itself, we should validate it and not treat it as a draft law, because all the members of the Commission know the task that we have pending on important issues and perhaps much more urgent than this. This, being simple and merely technical, we would have to leave it validated and move on to other subjects that we consider also important. I would like to thank my group for the support of all groups for the validation of this royal decree, as well as for the work carried out during the last few weeks in the Commission and in everything that is ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u19	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bravo Baena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Calviño, Minister, thank you very much for your exhibition. The previous speech has come to repeat the speech that the People's Party is late in transposing the directives, and perhaps this deserves - with all due respect and without offending anyone - a broader analysis. Let us examine what the Socialist Party does and what the People's Party does. Let us look, for example, at the Socialist Party in Mr Sánchez's relationship with Catalonia. Any citizen on foot might think that Mr Sánchez has lost the lucidity of a president of the government when he does not act or does not respond to the independenceist attacks, to the statements of Mr Torra referring to a Slovenian front, to the statements of Mr Tardà, who calls for an inevitable referendum or will engage in disobedience. But that would be too simple a focus and maybe it's not fair. Mr Sánchez does not act by logic, he has another logic what he does, which is to try to stay in the Government of Spain at any price, without defending Spain, at any price. Now let's see what the People's Party does. Let us start from the principle you have said that the directives are being transposed late, but let us again widen the focus a little to see why. When the People's Party arrives, in 2011, we find a country in technical bankruptcy, close to intervention, with a budget hole of 70 billion euros and with almost 5 million unemployed. What to do about it? What any government would do coherently: prioritize, start working and solve people's problems. What did we do? We paid the debts, mainly to SMEs, we managed to approve budgets that were reducing that deficit that you left above 9%, and we managed to create 3 million jobs. I think the target was achieved. But let's focus on the laws. You have attacked us with that concept. Do you know how many laws were passed in the X Legislature? Say a number of those who were here in the X Legislature. Fifty, 100? Well, look, minister, as you've pulled out a label, I have to tell you that it was 244 laws passed by the People's Party. [[shows a press clipping]] [[Applauds]] Is there logic in the way the People's Party acts or not? The importance of urgency was prioritized. Minister, this serves me to remind you that a government has to do more than transpose. A minister of the economy must do more than transpose directives. They have received a severe correction from the European Union for its budget plan. This demonstrates the need to have a government that knows its obligations and the measures necessary from a budgetary point of view to solve the problems of the people and that does not devote itself to transposing what Mr. Iglesias, his minister of uncontrolled public expenditure, dictates to them. Madam Minister, I will focus on your intervention and give you three details. You should ask the Socialist Group - to which you too represent - whether the People's Party offered to approve this by royal decree and what your party replied. No, I didn't want it by royal decree. Second question, Minister, you said that there is a royal decree of the year 2013 that takes five years. He doesn't lie, but he tells half the truths, which is sometimes worse. You have to say that this has been transposed and that there are some differences with the European Union as to whether it is transposed in its entirety or not. I don't think it's the same. Thirdly, as it cannot be otherwise and as my colleagues have done, I would like to thank you for the work of the members of the Commission. Let us land, and say well, yes, let us land in the royal decree-law 19/2018. It's complex, but we'll try to focus. PSD2, what does it take? Five ideas. The first, users' rights. How? By two means: one, avoiding charges for the use of electronic payment systems and two, greater transparency. The second, security measures to prevent fraudulent use and abuse. How? With authentication, as my fellow citizen has already explained: when you pay use your password and also a key that comes via SMS. The third, introduces the open banking, that is, banks have to hand over information to third parties as long as they are professional. Fourth, empowers users. How? By giving them more information and allowing them to make better decisions. And finally, and perhaps the most important, it introduces innovation, which is so necessary in our country, through mobile payment and the Internet. But there is another part that you have overlooked, perhaps by oblivion, that of the Market Abuse Directive. I'll explain why I'm saying this. It says: report anonymously when there are abuses in the market system. Perfect. It also says: the CNMV's obligation with the Banco de España to communicate this information and its relations with third parties. This is where I want to stop. The ninth final disposition, you know what it says? That the distinction between insider information and relevant market information is recovered. Does that sound like insider information to you? And what does it say? That it will be a very serious breach. When? Whenever the offender has known the information privileged by his or her status as administrator or by the exercise of his or her profession, work or functions. See if the European Union considers it serious that it has raised the penalty and set it at between EUR 1 and 10 million. I believe that this highlights the importance and seriousness of using insider information. If we have to put a but to his royal decree, minister - he has announced it, but let's hope it is soon - it is that, apart from copying and sticking in that transposition, it does not bring the regulatory development, which is what will allow us a better application of all this. I am going to take advantage of the minute I have left, Minister, to tell you, given that it is a law that speaks of payment services, of income, of banking entities, of the Banco de España, which is expressly not reflected in this law. I know that the delegates of the Government of Ceuta and Melilla have brought it to your attention, but to the deputy for Melilla, Carmen Dueñas, and I would like to transfer the difficulties, which you know, that are happening right now in Ceuta and Melilla. As you are well aware, our entrepreneurs have serious difficulties for three reasons: firstly, because of our border situation with a third country, such as Morocco; secondly, because of our atypical trade; and thirdly, because of the difficulty that this leads to with the banking entities, which do not allow them to enter banknotes of 500 euros - not 200 euros or 100 euros - but even close their bank accounts. We are not asking you - do not misunderstand my words - not to apply the norm, quite the contrary - if someone supports rules are Ceuta and Melilla: up to three controls at the entrance of goods, something that does not happen in any other part of the national territory - we are asking you to adapt the regulations, to help us adapt the regulations to the needs and peculiarities of these cities. For this he has the support of the two presidents of the autonomous cities, Ceuta and Melilla, he has the support of the confederations of entrepreneurs, he has the support of the Chamber of Commerce. Do you know how this is solved, if you admit the advice of a humble Member, as my colleague rightly said? We invite you to meet Ceuta, we invite you to visit us, to know our peculiarities and to know the deep Spanish feeling that is lived from coexistence and cultural diversity. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, Mrs Calviño, with your commitment we are convinced that we will be able to fix this problem of entrepreneurs and trade in both Ceuta and Melilla. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u22	We continue with the amendments approved by the Senate to the bill amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Societies Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July, and the 22/2015 Act of 20 July on Audit of Accounts, on non-financial information and diversity, from Royal Decree-Law 18/2017 of 24 November. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group planned the intervention of Mr Campuzano i Canades. [[Pause]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u23	Thank you, President. Egun on. Today we are going to discuss here the amendments that come from the Senate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u24	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u25	... to the bill amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u26	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u27	... and the Audit of Accounts Act, in the area of non-financial information and diversity. A few years ago corporate transparency - especially on environmental, social and good governance issues - was perceived as a matter of good practice, and therefore of voluntary compliance; yet today it has become a fundamental issue in business activity, because the company in addition to an economic agent is an agent that plays or plays a social, cultural and environmental role. Transparency is therefore an instrumental value, because it reduces market uncertainties about policy makers' preferences, generates more efficient financial markets and increases investment by contributing to economic growth, while opacity does the opposite, the disincentive. In this context, Directive 2014/95 has been a major step forward, as it sets out the regulatory framework at international level for extra-financial corporate reporting and diversity. And it is that despite the fact that all the groups have been critical with the delay of their transposition, it has given us the opportunity to the different groups to improve the initial forecasts provided for in the decree that regulated it. A text that obliges companies to include in this report information on social, environmental issues, content related to company staff, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. The dissemination of this information will certainly serve to identify potential risks to sustainability, thereby increasing confidence in investors, consumers and society at large. Transparency, both financial and social, environmental and fiscal, of course leads to better management of the company in the long term, helps to reduce costs, and puts it in a position of greater competitiveness. The law discussed in the paper was the result of a great consensus translated practically into a unanimous agreement, which this group here today is going to maintain. It is also that our amendments were included, either directly or through compromises, as a result of that great agreement. We are going to vote against the amendments from the Senate, with the exception of an amendment which is a technical correction and which was unanimously adopted there. With regard to the rest I would like to argue our vote against, so with regard to the amendments of the Citizens' Group we are going to vote against them because they are included in the text of the paper, so that their maintenance seems to be due only to a few nuances; the amendment by Podemos because it has already been voted against in the paper procedure in this House, and therefore in consistency with our vote; the amendments by the Joint Group do not seem to be necessary, because they are in matters already covered in the text; the amendments by the People's Group, on the one hand, because they deal with issues relating to the Securities Market Act - so little has to do with non-financial information and we therefore believe that they are out of context - and, on the other hand, we must not forget that the draft securities market law is being dealt with, and that is where they should be dealt with, and on the other hand, there is some other amendment which seeks to reduce that non-financial information with which all the groups agreed in the paper in this House. Its justification is based on the fact that the degree of detail that has been required in this House has not been required in the rest of the environment countries, and this will lead to a loss of competitiveness in businesses. It is true that we must recognise that it has gone a little further than the directive, but today that there is so much talk of transparency and participation, we are being told that transparency is a threat to competitiveness? Can't transparency be used as an opportunity, as a competitive advantage for companies? It is necessary to take advantage to communicate to the market clearly how value is created through the actions that a company carries out, and this is done by being transparent, and it is that competitiveness does not depend on the information that a company gives in relation to others, but on other internal factors - in terms of its product, technologies, internal organisation, management - but also on external factors - macroeconomics, legislation and also on the tax system that make themselves decanted by one market or another. It is time for us to overcome the difference between confidentiality and transparency, and transparency is ultimately an accountability mechanism that serves not only to compare, but also to facilitate investor decision-making. The problem is not so much competition, but the more or less intelligent use of the data to be provided, and it is that information like other raw materials is a good that must be treated and processed in order to create economic value. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u28	Thank you very much. I give the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, to Mr Campuzano i Canades, in that Christmas spirit.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President, and also for your understanding, ladies and gentlemen, for the change. My group is going to support some of the amendments that the Senate has introduced, substantially those that reinforce the role of the State Council for Corporate Social Responsibility, which is an instrument created at the time of the former socialist government that has had a very limited life in recent years, and we believe that precisely the process of transposing this directive - certainly the most relevant legislative instrument in any policy of corporate social responsibility that we have lived in these years - also requires us to take advantage of its process to strengthen the role of the Council. In particular, in the amendments introduced in the Senate, we give this council an interesting and powerful role in the preparation of reports for the various bills passed by the government, which must be informed by the council in order to incorporate this perspective of corporate or corporate social responsibility. At the same time there is a need for the council to inform the Senate when the Senate amends the bills; they are original and they like to give exclusive leadership to the Senate, perhaps it would have been interesting to have a Congress-Senator shared body. In any case, welcome be that the Senate participates in that daily information of the council. We shall vote in favour of those amendments. There are other amendments which, from the outset, do not enjoy our sympathy, especially those which reduce the level of compliance to which companies are obliged to report in their non-financial reports. Some groups argue that the text that came out of Congress could negatively affect the competitiveness of our corporate fabric. There we will be cautious in the sense that once the law is passed it will depend on the bodies - I suppose the National Securities Market Commission and the Ministry of Economy itself - to monitor the implementation of that law. It is true that this transposition of the directive in the Spanish case has probably been one of the most advanced in our environment, and sometimes being the most advanced has its risks, but we are convinced that a sensible application of this legal framework will prevent possible negative effects on the competitiveness of companies not ending up producing. We are convinced that transparency in non-financial information is now a requirement of institutional investors, consumers, and also of other civil society organisations monitoring the economic and social action of companies. In this sense today, with the final adoption of this bill, the most significant advance in public policies supporting corporate social responsibility is taking place in Spain. I was pleased to recall the debate in the Commission with Ramón Jáuregui of the Socialist Group and with José Ignacio Azpiroz of the People's Group in 2004, 2005 or 2006 - I do not remember the exact dates - in which a report was adopted in the Congress of Deputies calling, among other things, for the regulation of non-financial information. It was one of the great challenges we had in this area. The directive has already been the advance in this direction, the Spanish transposition and parliamentary work redundancies and reinforces this perspective. The bill is reasonable and interesting, it opens up a challenge to the business sector, to large companies, but it also opens up a path for other companies. We are therefore convinced that with it we will have strengthened the confidence of society in the role of large companies in managing their social and environmental impact, and ultimately to a greater co-responsibility of the business world among the major collective challenges. This bill aligns with the sustainable development goals, which is the great partnership of the international community, the public and the private sectors, to meet the major collective challenges facing our society. That is why we are satisfied with the work that has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u31	Thank you, President. We welcome the transposition of this European directive, the aim of which is to ensure that non-financial, social and environmental information from large IBEX companies is transparently reflected in order to prevent corruption, evasion and tax evasion, and thus to have variables that go far beyond those that are purely financial. We note once again that not only does it matter the quantity, but also the quality and real impact of everything that produces or offers large companies that do not show billing data. This initiative has greatly improved in the parliamentary processing period, since the first initiative presented by the People's Party, a text with a financial and economicist approach that forgot about that part that was most devoted to the social sphere and to citizenship. But with the incorporation of amendments from different parties, and with the help of a number of NGOs, such as Intermon Oxfam, we have been improving this initiative, which seems to us to leave much to be desired. The result has been a bill that, among other things, integrates a higher level of information realization that is required of enterprises, the incorporation of the mandatory of its realization and publication, and of course an extension of the areas of application by which this information is required, with the consequent increase of the enterprises subject to this law. But, of course, the People's Party in the legislative process of tabling amendments in the Senate, where it is wide, has taken the opportunity to disregard the work carried out in Congress for months, and has put in place, among other things, amendments whose objective is a lesser degree of concreteness in the variables that companies must present because, of course, the large companies of IBEX 35 will already decide the information that they must show to society. No, gentlemen of the PP, this is not the spirit of this law; part of these amendments tabled prevent the objective of this bill, the real commitment of companies to values, from actually materializing, looking for ways to publish the indicators of real corporate social responsibility of companies. Society has the right to access this information and act according to it to channel investment and consumption so that companies are socially ethical and responsible. It is a citizen empowerment that with this information can decide in a more fair and free way by knowing the true impact of business activity. We will therefore vote in favour of the initiative and against most amendments. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u32	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u33	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into detail on this bill, I would like to express my thanks to all the members of this bill's presentation, to the lawyer, to her colleagues, who have done a great job of improving the text, and in particular to the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups who have supported those eighteen amendments which Citizens, our parliamentary group, have incorporated in practice in their entirety into this text, making it much more commendable. In detail, the contribution of my parliamentary group to the equal treatment of men and women, to the criterion of comparability of standard indicators, to the reconciliation of personal and family life, and in particular to those elderly and disabled people who, thanks to joint work with platforms such as Cermi, have been decisive in the equal treatment of access to non-financial information, better defending the interests of minority partners. Well, the need to improve the dissemination of information of social and environmental content by companies, and thus to coordinate national legislation so that this information is comparable and consistent with the whole of the European Union, has really been the spirit of this law. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we are once again late and bad. The transposition of Directive 2014/95, Mrs Calviño, should have taken place no later than 6 December, but not this year, but two years ago. I would also remind you that, according to the European Commission's data, we are the country that pays the most fines, almost 70% of which are in our country and we are talking about more than EUR 54 million at the moment in the last five years. Finally, Spain is also the country that, at the latest on average, transposes a directive - twelve months late on average - and this undermines our political capital in Europe, not to mention the budgetary misdemeanours that we have had in recent months and the instability that brings about the livelihood of partners such as those you have in the government, who not only want to break Spain, but also to tarnish our Europeanist spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, if we enter into the content this rule came from Royal Decree 18/2017, which was a transposition of minimums, that is, information without any kind of control or verification; something that bipartisanism has us accustomed to. Sincerely in this age of plagiarism, thesis, doctorates, we must make sure that this information provides confidence. We must ensure transparency and guarantee the content of the non-financial information of companies audited by independent professionals. And I know, I know they're not very used to it, but Citizens have come to give credibility to politics. Finally, I will say that the amendments incorporated in the Senate, defended by several groups, are generally positive, although we believe that the People's Party has tabled a sluggish amendment reformulating certain headings which, on the description of the state of non-financial information, eliminate such important aspects as the fight against the wage gap between men and women. Citizens are committed to the elimination of this gap. That is why we have called for a separate point vote to reject this cut in transparency; something that reminds us of the way in which the PP ladies and gentlemen act when it comes to regeneration and corruption. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's text is validated by the contribution of my parliamentary group, which expresses the improvement in transparency and accessibility of non-financial information for large companies, protecting and expanding equality. I remind you that we have a great delay in the transposition of directives, especially in this one, and it is a further sign of the weakness of this and the previous government, so I ask you, especially ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, not to delay parliamentary activity any longer, to call elections to confront and to form a new government, a new executive that is a guarantor of the great reforms that this beautiful and great country called Spain needs, and not to be afraid of the ballot boxes, this is a democracy. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u34	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u35	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Before I go into this matter, I would like to point out that this royal decree, which was transposed almost a year behind the directive, should have been transposed on 31 December 2016, that is to say, we will have the final text almost two years later. We have already talked about this sad custom that we are experiencing delays in the transposition of directives, which means, among other things, the opening of opinions and sanctioning procedures against Spain, the lack of homogeneity in the legal systems of the Member States, and above all it highlights the lack of interest or the neglect to adopt European standards. In a parliamentary question to the government in September 2018 the answer was that today there are forty-four directives pending transposition, thirty-two of them with the deadline expired or about to expire by the end of the year. So it is good news that it is a priority for the government to give way to these directives. Turning to the text before us, it is important to take into account the context in which this original directive has emerged, which has given rise to the law. We live in an economic system in which the maximization of business profit is done at the expense of anything: human rights violations, environmental destruction, labour exploitation, poor working conditions, and sometimes corruption and bribery. In other words, we allow certain companies to turn their backs on the society and the environment in which we live. This directive is undoubtedly inspired by the economy of the common good, which, beyond the reports and financial balances of companies, calls for companies to report on issues that are key to the well-being of society, such as labour rights, environmental impacts or democratic quality. Increasing demand is becoming more and more common, because citizens want to know what impact business activity has on a world that is experiencing an ecological crisis, in which there is growing inequality, precariousness and labour exploitation are on the agenda, corruption is one of the biggest concerns of citizens, and in which millions of women cry out against labour discrimination and the wage gap. As consumers, as citizens we want to know whether or not the way companies generate their profits contributes to a better world. The text of the royal decree was initially quite abstract, little concrete, the type of information was not defined or any obligation, it turned into wet paper a good intention and it did not allow for a powerful tool of knowledge and transparency. There are three main improvements that have been incorporated, in which our group has placed particular emphasis, and it was to achieve a well-defined standard, without any loopholes in which companies could be exempted from their reporting responsibility. The text originally improves on three main aspects. The first is the scope. Once the progressive implementation of Spain is complete, it will have one of the most advanced transpositions. Secondly, something that we believe to be very relevant, which is the obligation to publish this report on the companies' website, which certainly contributes to advertising and transparency by facilitating access to information. And finally, the element that makes this tool really useful is the incorporation of indicators defined in international and approved standards, which is what will allow you to have homogeneous, comparable and detailed reports. It will allow us to have a full picture of the impact of business activities on society on environmental, social, gender equality or democratic quality. That is why we find unacceptable the amendment No 9 of the People's Party, which modifies the requirements of the state of non-financial information, giving the company absolute flexibility to present the information in the way they want and on what they want. This amendment completely undoes the work done in the Commission, which precisely sought to define as clearly as possible the information to be presented. They also put forward arguments such as that some countries have transposed the directive in such a way that, without going into detail, it is obvious that, for example, some Member States such as the United Kingdom already have their own legislation regulating the content of this non-financial information. This amendment therefore leaves nothing to the work and spirit of much of the amendments that have been put forward. Other amendments by the People's Party reject them because they have nothing to do with the subject matter of the law, even by regulating issues that are currently being put to the House. And my group will be voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the Citizens and the PDECAT for considering them in line with what we have advocated throughout the presentation, and not for any substantial changes to the text voted and adopted by the majority in this Committee. Our group is very satisfied with this text, we believe that good work has been done and that it will certainly help us to know more about the way in which our companies relate to the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u36	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, to which amendments have been tabled in the Senate, was adopted in the Congressional Economics Committee on 23 October, with full legislative competence, with a great consensus, as all the speakers who have spoken before me have said, and without having any vote against it. That is why we want to highlight the high degree of agreement reached in that Commission, once again expressing our vote in favour of the consensus text that came out of Congress. We want to do this because it is important to bear in mind how difficult it is to reach consensus, because they always involve resignation and accept approaches by all parties that are not their own. That is why when these are achieved they must be respected, an agreement that has much more value when there are no majorities. The amendments tabled, as some of the previous speakers have said, do not justify the delay in the approval of a draft which was being processed urgently, because they also contain the transposition of a directive which was the subject of a sanctioning dossier to Spain, but not as the previous speakers said, but the transposition of another directive, because the transposition of the non-financial information directive had already been transposed by a real decree and was already in force. But in this case this amendment was urgent and you knew it, an urgency provoked by the People's Party, that while it was government as it said incorporated its transposition into the draft, through amendments, issues that had nothing to do with non-financial information, and that for the sake of the agreement and given our institutional loyalty, we decided to keep in submission. Despite this, the People's Party in the Senate, and already in the opposition, felt that it was better to torpedo the immediate approval of the project. In the Senate, he has proposed amendments that seek to break the consensus reached, amending his own amendments and his own criteria, thus contributing to a delaying strategy, an attitude that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we cannot and must not share because of the lack of institutional loyalty demonstrated by the People's Party. Mr. Ten, I want to tell you that it would be much more credible when you comply with your agreements, and at the moment it does not seem to be going to do so. It is curious that there are groups that accuse us of delaying the adoption of this text when they themselves have contributed to tabling amendments in the Senate that have delayed their final approval, although as you indicated there was a great deal of work done and there was a great consensus, and with the input of all groups and with the determined contribution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have contributed to improving a project that I am convinced that today, with some amendments that I hope will not be adopted, will improve the corporate transparency of companies. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want to demand is the agreement reached, because the debate on the appropriateness or opportunity of some of the specific amendments that have already been made in the paper, and the repetition of the debate today in plenary should not diminish the importance of the final adoption of this law, which promotes corporate transparency and puts into value the level of commitment of companies to the great challenges that society as a whole has; challenges such as the fight against climate change, economic and social inequality in the face of an increasingly global world are commitments that can not only remain in their will, they must be contrasting realities. The effects of climate change are already here, a global and individual commitment is urgently needed and a majority of business corporations are already committed to it, and we must therefore value it. In May, the Banco de España published its first report on inequality, and the data revealed a reality that we cannot ignore. It found that the inequality of wage income for per capita income and wealth in Spain was one of the largest in Europe. It was revealing that in 2014 63% of wage earners in the first decile of wage distribution were women, while they accounted for 48% of total wage earners. In addition, as revealed by the Paradise Papers scandal, there may be business practices that can reduce their tax burden in other countries, regardless of the increase in inequality and financial instability caused by their actions. There is no doubt, therefore, that responsible action by the business sector can play a decisive role in addressing these challenges, and in this regard the role of non-financial information that includes aspects not included in the financial statements can and should play an important role in highlighting its ethical commitments and social responsibility. The ultimate shared goal should be to advance a sustainable economic model that combines economic profitability with global protection and social justice, and this information is increasingly useful in valuing companies and in making investment decisions, as well as in seeking new sources of financing. This is therefore not a minor issue from the economic point of view, but also from the social and reputational and strategic point of view of companies. In fact, there are already many companies offering non-financial information on a voluntary basis, through their corporate social responsibility policies, understanding that the benefits of disseminating such information outweigh the associated costs. Knowing that prevention measures are being taken in the face of potential risks, corruption or money-laundering can be critical to strengthening external confidence in companies and also to contributing to better internal management. This bill should be valued by businesses as an opportunity to highlight all the policies and actions they are already carrying out. The non-financial information report is nothing more than the letter of presentation that companies offer about themselves, and this law offers the possibility that significant, homogeneous information is available comparable between companies by establishing that the information they provide is based on recognized international standards and that this information is also verifiable. Years ago, no company promoted corporate social responsibility, nor did it advertise its company by showing itself to be responsible in environmental terms. Now they do it because they know it acquires an intangible value that it didn't have before. We want transparency with regard to labour and fiscal policy to be also a commitment on the part of companies. That is why the Socialist Government and the Socialists have committed themselves to this. We want them to highlight what kind of labour relations they promote, what contribution they make, through payment of taxes, wherever they operate, that they give transparency to this type of information and even that one day - it would be an unquestionable advance - they would dare to advertise their tax contribution to society and even that they would disappear from the advertising scene ads like the day without VAT, which would also be an advance. To pay taxes is an obligation and to value that taxes are paid, thus contributing to a better society, should be considered positively by companies and not to report on it was qualified as a risk to their competitiveness. Therefore, companies competing in one sector know all the markets where their competitors operate and if they do not enter a market it is because they are not interested, not because they do not know it. The amendment by the People's Party is not only a setback to the agreement reached, but also a setback to corporate transparency. The agreed text incorporates that obliged companies provide significant information on certain aspects.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u38	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u39	Yeah, I'm finishing up. The detail or not of the information portrays the companies, and not because as a guide the law directs it, but because of the very intentionality that the companies have when it comes to reporting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important not only to know the policies that reduce the negative externalities that they generate, but also all those that generate positive externalities in society. And what is significant today is that there may be groups that, unlike what they thought a month ago, may see danger in guiding companies to provide information on the fight against the wage gap, on sponsorships or on the social and economic benefits obtained. In conclusion, I would like to say to you that the Socialists will be loyal to the word given to the groups in the presentation and I hope that the other groups will be loyal, thus contributing to improving transparency and corporate responsibility with our society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u40	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u41	President, ladies and gentlemen, the dissemination of the state of non-financial information of certain companies, which is the subject of this law, originates from Directive 2014/95, which aims to improve the measurement of the social impact of companies in the companies in which they operate. It is a question of knowing the real impacts of its performance, which involves exceeding strictly monetary analysis. It is about exercising a long-term perspective that seeks to identify the social benefits of business activity beyond the private accounting benefit. It is no longer a question of assessing only the volume of business or the ability of companies to generate employment to define their role in societies, but of going further. It is a question of recognizing that companies assume a role that goes beyond the valuable role they play as drivers of economic growth. And to that end, we must have the information that allows for a proper assessment of such input, information based on non-monetary, non-financial indicators, which have already been described today. All these issues are precisely the subject of the new legislation that we have come to ratify today following its passage through the Senate and are at the heart of what is now required in the area of non-financial information. The amendments incorporated in the Upper House mean that they improve the text, since they cover shortcomings and correct possible defects of the previous one. We have also introduced provisions that repair fundamental aspects for the proper functioning of collective investment institutions at a time when the transposition of directives is profoundly altering the scenario and the different pace of such transposition can create dysfunctions that we are trying to solve. The latter is precisely one of the basic arguments for understanding the introduction of amendments relating to the functioning of investment markets. These are new provisions that come to cover a problem that was generated by the adoption of the new European regulation called MiFID II, because this new European regulation obliges collective investment institutions to transfer customer participations between different funds to cheaper classes, i.e. to make reclassifications. Reclassifications should not have a fiscal impact on customers because, as I say, they are mandatory by law and, if we do not solve it, they will not be able to meet the current requirements of prior individualized consent for this movement because, in many cases, they are of a massive nature. Therefore, in the new text, changes are introduced, on the one hand, to enable the definition of movements as transfers and thus avoid the tax payment and, on the other, changes in the requirement of prior individual recognition of the customer. There are more developments but, in short, with the amendments introduced in the field of the securities market we are convinced that we corrected these dysfunctions which needed to be remedied. On the other hand, I wanted to comment on the amendment we have introduced to amend Article 348a of the Capital Societies Act - which is quite well known - to remedy what has in many cases been defined as a serious mistake by the legislator. According to the original wording of the article, following the spirit of protection of the minority who inspired the rule, in the event that dividends were not distributed, the minority partner, who felt that the decision not to distribute dividends was an attack on his interests, could exercise the right to separation and thus the claim to reinstate the value of his shares. If before the article it was the majority who had the power to decide on the distribution or not, after the entry into force of this rule the positions were exchanged and the minorities were eventually invested with important power. What was of concern then and concern now is that the strict application of the measure could lead to corporate decapitalization, i.e. it could seriously endanger the economic and financial situation of society because of the need for liquidity that would lead to such separation or claim of profits. It could also harm the development of certain business models in companies that require a high degree of stability and initial commitment to remain capital even if no profits are distributed. I am talking precisely about the case that we have introduced, that of the anonymous sports companies, in which the partners do not acquire the shares waiting for dividends, but do so for reasons that have to do with the sustainability of the club, both at economic and sporting level; hence the amendment for their exemption. At this point, I would like to point out that all the amendments we have made are based on information and analysis from experts in these fields, especially from the trade registrars, who know first-hand all their cases and the complaints brought in this article 348 bis. I am not going to go into more amendments - they have already been commented on - but I think it is quite justified and absolutely reasonable for me to introduce them into the Senate procedure. We therefore call for your support, as we are convinced that they will improve existing legislation by providing solutions to the problems that have arisen. Ladies and gentlemen, we listen to society, in this case, to economic operators, and with the amendments we demonstrate this. We make all the decisions that favor your activity, which certainly has a positive impact on growth and job creation. By the way, growth for the first time in many quarters has been revised downwards by all international and national economic agencies, and it has now been precisely with this Government. It is a negative dynamic that a minority government, which cannot at the same time satisfy its motion partners and fulfil our international commitments, is unable to renew; a minority government that is unable to make the major reforms that this country needs to continue on the path of growth and job creation that it started with the PP government in 2013. It is clear that Sánchez's propaganda government is already amortized and that this legislature no longer gives itself and is fully liquidated. But, despite that, let us at least show that we are able to put aside our differences to end good initiatives that we have pending, such as the one we are debating today. It is a good law that will broaden the vision of our companies with a 360 degree approach and that will benefit all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u43	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal of the Commission on International Development Cooperation for the establishment of a subcommission to study the updating of the normative framework and the system of international development cooperation. That proposal shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u44	We turn to the agenda item on the report of the Sub-Commission on the study and development of water policy proposals in line with the challenges of climate change. For the presentation of the report on behalf of the Commission, Mr Díaz Trillo has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u45	President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, just three minutes to say three words. The first has to be of thanks to those who have worked in a subcommittee dedicated precisely to observing, discussing and discussing the impacts that climate change has on our surface and groundwater. In this connection, I would particularly like to refer to the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which initiated this work, namely its chairman, Mr Llorens, Mr José Manuel Sala and all those who have been making proposals over time and, of course, to the participants in the eight sessions, twenty-seven persons whose information is of enormous value to what we are studying. I want to continue in this chapter of thanks, but already within the Ecological Transitional Commission, which assumed these functions. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the seven working meetings and finally the lawyer, Mrs Barbara Cosculluela, and her team for having arrived in time and avoiding having to ask this House for a further extension. So we have fulfilled the mission, your honors have fulfilled it, and in this sense I express my thanks to all of you. Secondly, I would like to refer to the word compromise. You will note that there are discrepancies in the debate below - some in substance - but there has been an important, deep debate and at all times full of intelligence and diligence, so that it will be very valuable, essential information. And I move on to the last word, so I don't get past the three minutes I've committed to the president. The last is transcendence. This is an important issue for humanity. At the same time, in Katowice, Poland, most nations are debating the greatest challenge facing humanity, which is to avoid further deterioration of the planet and to prevent its possible future from finally collapsing. In such a way that the modest work that is presented to this plenary today and that will remain to strengthen the commitment of this House that represents the sovereignty of our country will be of enormous use. I go back to the first word - I'm going to finish in the nine seconds that I have left -, the thank you. If we are able to meet the objectives that we already set ourselves in this report, surely thanks is the word that future generations will say. We go a lot on it, we go the lives of those generations and not just our own. Thanks in particular to all the honourable Members who have made possible this report which is being presented today. And thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u46	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Trillo. For the defence of the particular votes cast, Mr Martínez González, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Before explaining the meaning of our particular vote, I would also like to thank the attendees for their availability and their contributions to the subcommission, which have been very useful and of very high quality, as well as the lawyers for their advice and their chairman, José Ignacio Llorens, for their good work. On behalf of my group, thank you all. [[Applauds]] All the participants noted the great impact that climate change will have on our country, on water, our most precious natural resource. We are faced with a scenario where extreme weather events will be more and more frequent, where precipitation will be more irregular and intense, with the consequent increase in droughts and floods, and where the increase in temperature will be unquestionable, causing greater evapotranspiration and, therefore, less availability of water resources. Therefore, my group understands, ladies and gentlemen, that its responsibility is to prepare our country for these scenarios without giving up anything and that this will go through a national water pact and the indefatigable updating of our National Hydrological Plan, all based on consensus, solidarity and sustainability, in order to ensure a safe, predictable and quality water supply. I confess that when the spokesman for the Podemos Group, Mr Arrojo, passed to the groups his conclusions and recommendations days before their debate so that we could have time to review them, I thought that perhaps we were on the road to achieving something in common, that there was enough room and points to reach a great deal of agreement, that we put the debate on climate change and water quality at the centre of the reform, alerting to the need to recover our aquifers, highlighting the importance of R & D+i in water and an integrated water cycle management, betting on the circular water economy. I'm sure there would be many more points in common. There were also discrepancies, of course legitimate, but it considered that they could be settled. But - there is always one but, Mr Arrojo - surprise, what was the opinion of Podemos became the report of the subcommittee, pre-cooked and closed, in the official report, without debate, without the will of consensus, without the possibility of introducing any amendment, which in spite of this we have not even been able to defend, leaving a large part of Spanish society out of the solution. The PSOE, already under government responsibility, does not want a consensus mandate from Congress that closes a state water pact. He prefers it to be open, unsolved, uncommitted. They renounce to rule rather than to face up to their conflicting autonomous interests. [[Applauds]] Everything is subject to an electoral discourse that modulates itself according to the fact that in a territory it is given or taken away from it, to a bold weapon between the different autonomous communities. This is how we have come to this day, with a visionless PSOE that throws itself into the arms of Podemos and subscribes to a skewed report, full of ideological approaches alien to the reality of water and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, investment in infrastructure in our country is one of the lowest in the European Union. Some reports even say that EUR 12 billion would be needed up to 2021 to undertake 510 actions that are urgent in water infrastructure, and this requires consensus and legal certainty. Citizens have been the only party that has claimed a national water pact during this legislature. We are consistent with our project of freedom, but also of equality and, above all, of solidarity between Spaniards. Well, the motion was rejected. You, PSOE and Podemos, have chosen to falsely conclude the work of the subcommission, posing a common front that denies the water deficit of the Spanish southeast, that omits the irrefutable duty of solidarity between Spaniards, that abandons technological neutrality, which in no way benefits society or the environment, and that refuses to update the National Hydrological Plan. All this combined with the fact that Minister Ribera skipped last month the rules of exploitation of the Tajo-Segura transfer, which has led to the presentation of resources - admitted to the National Court procedure - by the governments of the Valencian Community and the Community of Murcia. [[Applauds]] I would like Mr Baldoví, who is a great defender and champion of oranges, to look at why his group supports this opinion. [[Applauds]] Water - and I conclude, Mr President - cannot be a political flag or a heritage of a party or even a government; it must be a state policy, a vertebrate element of the state and its governance must be based on a broad political consensus. The text proposed by the Socialist and United Group We can even use a deeply ideologicalized language, which is inappropriate for a political group to position, which we are trying to amend. Today many small farmers are following us closely in Almeria, Alicante, Murcia and Albacete, concerned that there are decisions here that can stifle their future, their development, the social and economic progress of all their land. We need to convene a national water table that equips us with a coherent national policy, efficient solutions and serves us to adapt the National Hydrological Plan to the climate change scenario. All this is in strict compliance with the Water Framework Directive. Without sustainability it would be impossible to guarantee any demand, but without development it would be impossible to achieve a sustainable supply. We must, please, stop polluting our waters with ideologies and selfishness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Carreño Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, today each group is showing what its water policy is going to be. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, bring here an ideological and pampered document that has been signed by Podemos, the Socialist Party, nationalists and independenceists. As the left always does, it applies social engineering before civil engineering or environmental engineering. It is a document that hardly considers the recommendations of the experts who have participated in the various appearances of the subcommission and which poses the most pessimistic scenario. Look, pessimists are our regents, our farmers and farmers, the agro-food and tourism sector of the water policy of the left because you ignore the benefits of agriculture in general and irrigation in particular. They ignore that irrigation crops are genuine sinks of carbon dioxide, ladies and gentlemen, which contribute to rural development by avoiding depopulation. What do you have against rural development wanting to ban everything, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] You have shown that you have a restrictive, punitive, prohibitive, rather than incentivizing sense in your proposals. Do they not recognise the efforts that the agri-food sector has made and is making in terms of purification, reuse, water saving, innovation in technology or research, in making agriculture more sustainable? It is a sector that has made Spain the fruit and vegetable pantry of Europe, which is a leader in exports, which generates thousands of jobs, which contributes billions of euros to the country's GDP and maintains a unique environmental wealth consisting of millions and millions of trees, ladies and gentlemen. They ignore the enormous progress that has been made in recent years in water policy in the face of the paralysis of socialist governments, disregarding the watershed hydrological plans approved by the People's Party and with the agreement of 80% of the National Water Council. You have despised the concern and disquiet at a brutal lack of knowledge denying the existence of deficit basins and surplus basins, as stated in paragraph 2 of your document and as also stated by the Minister of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Do you think that the basins of Segura and Jucar, the Catalan basin and the Mediterranean-Andalucia are not deficient? Because their contributions are lower than consumption, with a structural water deficit in the entire area of southeastern Spain, ladies and gentlemen. You have caused pessimism and indignation when in your recommendations you take it for granted in paragraph 1 that the hydraulic works are already completed and that it is not advisable to do more. You ignore the need to do regulatory work to address the challenges of climate change and criticise the policy of building lamination reservoirs. Ladies and gentlemen, lamination reservoirs are necessary in view of the expected increase in droughts and floods, and have been essential to save thousands of lives in phenomena such as cold droplets and have also made available additional volumes of water in times of drought. You have denied the need to interconnect basins, arguing that transfers are not effective, threatening to resize the service of the sixteen existing transfers in Spain, ladies and gentlemen and, for the first time in history and unilaterally, ignoring the current law, closing others. It is an essential infrastructure for the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. The left has politicized a vital resource such as water, which must be guaranteed in its access and cost to all Spaniards. What does the People's Party want? A policy of water solidarity, just and guaranteed. We want new hydraulic works, to finish and maintain existing ones. We want a network of interconnected infrastructures and interconnections between existing desalinators. We want to modernise irrigation, promote innovation and research, increase efficiency and meet environmental objectives, where sanitation and purification are the key tool. We want a national re-use plan or the implementation of flood risk management plans. We want investments that will allow water to reach all areas of Spain, to reach Aragon, Castile-La Mancha, Andalusia, the Valencian Community or Murcia; to all the territories of Spain that suffer from scarcity, ladies and gentlemen. We want investments not only in the deficit basins, but also in the transferors; investments in pipeline works or extension of regulatory reservoirs. It cannot be understood that they are poured into the sea around 100,000 cubic metres of water and that then we have to desalinate it. Ladies and gentlemen, farmers pay very dearly for water, especially in Levante, and now the Socialist Government will make them pay twice as much for desalinated water. What does the People's Party group want? We want to improve water governance in terms of efficiency, sustainability and cost, so that it can be priced among the different autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a national water pact. [[Shows a poster reading: 'National Water Pact']] We want a national pact for water and that, from dialogue and consensus, the various autonomous communities, the sectors, the different parliamentary groups, provide solutions that ensure the environmental protection of the water environment and the attention to the demand of the entire Spanish territory. [[Applauds]] Finally, we want a national hydrological plan like the one announced by President Pablo Casado, with actions and budget allocation and including investments throughout Spain. My group today presents a particular vote with conclusions and recommendations that the Group of the European People's Party is making for proper and supportive water management. I would especially like to thank the two rapporteurs who accompanied me in the work of the subcommittee, Teresa de Lara and Bethlehem Bajo. Farmers, farmers and businesses cannot be expected whether it rains or not, whether Pedro Sánchez or Pablo Iglesias bet on rural development or not. You are in time to rectify and join the document submitted by the Group of the European People's Party and the proposal for a national water pact which, of course, guarantees all resources to all the territories of Spain. [[show the sign again]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreño. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have used water to make irresponsible electoral demagogy should know that this line has been exhausted in the face of the installation of climate change, and I say they should because it seems that they are continuing with this. Let's see, we are hearing speeches from the People's Party and Citizens that are a demonstration of cynicism because here, when Compromís has brought to this House in the process of amendments to the general budgets of 2017 and 2018 numerous items to put in place the desalinations of Mutxamel, Cabanes, Oropesa, to make fix the problem of the San Diego ferry, to fix the problems that the Valencian albufera has, to fix the channellings of the rivers, all those budgetary amendments have been systematically told no, and the farmers of my territory still lack resources because they have not wanted to make the corresponding budgetary expenses. But now, of course, we turn here, in the public debate, to take the issue out of the water as a reason for confrontation, just for that, not to fix it. Agencies such as OECD have long warned of a global water availability crisis, which will also affect more developed countries, where the ageing of infrastructure and governance models, in addition to pressures associated with urbanization processes, put quality mouth water supply at risk. This is something we have wanted to solve in successive budgets and you have not supported it. In 2010, the United Nations recognized access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a fundamental human right, but to date, with the governments of the People's Party we have had, we have not seen that this right has been effectively incorporated into our domestic legislation. We must effectively reduce the water intensity of our economy and reduce our environmental and social vulnerability to maintain a good quality of life for people in the face of climate change. In that they will find us in Compromís, but of course they will not find us in the demagogy of which the mouth is always filled with a series of empty slogans and then, at the time of truth, when to portray themselves with the votes to the budgetary amendments, to do exactly the opposite. We have to rationalize the use of water, we have to boost the reuse of purified water and desalination, we have to promote the conservation of historical irrigation with a high degree of naturalization, we have to promote the economic viability of drought crops, we have to enhance the restoration of aquatic ecosystems, we have to prevent the application in our territory of hydraulic fracture techniques, fracking, and recover river space. All these are outstanding subjects, which is what the experts who attended the subcommission have told us about. We must move towards a sustainable model that does not compromise future generations. This is exactly what the subcommission's report contains and which Compromís has subscribed to because it incorporates many of the proposals that we have put forward a long time ago. That is why we ask you to vote in favour because the time for demagogy has passed and the time for orderly and sustainable management is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u53	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. On behalf of the Democratic Party, I would like to thank all the representatives and participants, as well as the Members of this subcommittee, for their contributions. Although I am speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party, the person who has participated and who has been in these works has been the deputy Antoni Postius. Before entering into the considerations around the recommendations, Mr de Citizens and Mr de PP, as long as they want to make water and general water policy, as well as other issues, an element of confrontation between territories and sectors, they are not going to solve anything at all, they are creating a State that simply lives from territorial confrontation. And that's terrible, and they're not gonna fix it and they're not gonna find any kind of support. This is not a topic of right or left, it is a topic of rationality, it is a topic of the twenty-first century, of trying to seek solidarity between the territories, and solidarity is not to yield a resource that, as one of the recommendations establishes, is not surplus. You don't throw water into the sea. As long as there is the concept of throwing water into the sea, obviously we will not understand each other. In any case, one of the significant elements is that it is recognized that the basins are not surplus, that the transfers are not a solution and, in turn, in the existing transfers what is established is to try to resize them from rationality, without tensioning the receiving basins, according to these receiving basins and seeking solutions. In relation to an issue that is also important to us, the Water Framework Directive establishes the need for ecological flows to enable deltas to sustain their survival in particular. I appreciate the special mention made of ecological flows in the Ebro Delta. Finally, recommendation 5.5 shows an element that we would have to question the whole House. The municipalities are in a situation of under-financing and we cannot allow the outsourcing of water supply services to take place for strictly economic reasons. We agree on this, but neither should it be done for ideological reasons; guarantees should be provided for those municipalities that want to outsource it to be able to apply the resources of this outsourcing, if any, to investments properly linked to the supply of water or its sanitation. In this we agree; what is not welcome - and from this I denounce it - is that, with a majority in this House to repeal the LRSAL, it is still in force. That is not understood by our municipalities or by our citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, first of all, I would like to say to you that water is not poured into the sea, that is not waste water; it feeds river ecosystems, it recovers the quality of the waters of the surface river masses, it feeds or replenishes the coasts with sediments and it also allows areas such as the Ebro Delta to continue to survive. Therefore, water is never thrown into the sea; it is a place that really surrounds it. [[The lady]] If you go in with those approaches, it means that you have not understood anything of what we have presented in our report. On the other hand, there are also no deficit and surplus basins. One of the debates is that there were no deficit or surplus basins; in any case, in the scenario that will appear - as we are told - there will be no surplus or deficit basins. Another thing is that you want to run that idea to practice what you say about hydraulic interconnection, which does not stop being the transfers, which is the real policy that you pursue yourself. The technical report that we have is a good one, regardless of each one's political positions, and we should congratulate him and thank the participants for their efforts and their clarification. There is an issue that is fundamental and behind which is the debate that we are debating here, which is the precautionary principle. Although the Cedex studies already take into account various scenarios, in accordance with the precautionary principle and in accordance with existing European legislation - in accordance with existing European legislation, we must always take as a reference framework for risk planning those studies that present the worst scenario. What we are basically faced with are scenarios of great water stress in the coming decades. The main reference on the predictions of rainfall, surface runoff and infiltration of aquifers is precisely the Cedex studies, the results of which can be summarized, as follows, in several points. I will refer to these points because they give a view of the possible drama and a pessimistic view of where we are going. All simulations and forecasts point to remarkable average temperature increases. That's clear. This means that on the one hand it will have its effects on the set of environmental elements of the territory. There will be an increase in temperatures and the evotranspiration of plant masses will grow, generating a recession in runoff and an increase in irrigation requirements: less water, more requirements. Precipitation. Although there are greater uncertainties, what is clear is that a major recession is expected in Mediterranean areas. As for river flows and levels of aquifer infiltration, precisely because of the increase in the evotranspiration of plant masses and the lower precipitation, we will find that there will be scenarios with fewer resources available. Cedex foresees precisely a reduction in average flows from 2010 to the end of the century of the order of 24%, a quarter of a reduction in flow capacity, which can reach between 30% and 40% in more sensitive areas - see that it is a decrease of the flow to almost half - while the infiltration that feeds the aquifers will decrease by 27% over the end of the century. On the other hand, it is certified the increase of climatic variability and Mediterranean rainfall with significant alteration of the seasonal and spatial patterns of the rain. There will be a strong increase in the risks of droughts, which will be more frequent, long and intense, and floods with more frequent growths and maximum and strong flows. Why do I frame these points? Because the scenario is really dramatic if no action is taken. Keep in mind a topic. I believe that one of the main conclusions that we have been able to corroborate in the Subcommittee on Water Policy and the effects of climate change is that the increase in this water stress will force us to change the current management and governance model, today in many cases unworkable, exhausted and obsolete, as it is. In any case, they will have to be models that involve greater management and transparency, therefore greater public control of hydraulic policies, and greater participation in the decisions of the different social and economic actors involved in the use of water. This implies changing the positioning and vision on water management that we have today. This requires large doses of generosity and resilience and, above all, involves putting in. There are sectors in the south-east of the peninsula that are already affected by the effects of climate change. Therefore, there is no more time to waste and negative, non-positive scenarios are already affecting what points on the peninsula. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Arrojo Agudo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first of all refer to previous speeches. That the People's Party stays in the old strategies and in the old concrete culture saddens me, disappoints me, but it was something I could expect. Citizens in their electoral obsession embrace these old policies of concrete, economic irrationality and unsustainable environmental impact against European standards, I feel ashamed and disappointed. In any case, let us go to the issue because I am not going to make this rostrum an electoralist flag within the political verdulity that has shocked me already with this dynamic that I am living in Parliament. Let's get to the point in the short time we have here. Friends and friends, climate change has as its generator vector the energy vector, of which there is no longer any doubt, and therefore the key challenge of mitigation policies is in the energy transition. However, as far as socio-environmental impacts are concerned, the main vector of disease is the water vector and therefore adaptation policies should be chaired by the challenge of hydrological transition. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this opinion will mark a parliamentary milestone in this area insofar as it opens and marks the path of hydrological transition, a transition that, by the way, emerges as an emerging need already in the 1990s with the mobilizations for the new water culture, becomes a legal requirement with the Water Framework Directive and becomes an urgent and unalterable need with climate change, the urgency of moving from the old supply strategies subsidized to the new strategies of demand management and conservation of our ecosystems, from the old logic of concrete to the new environmental intelligence of sustainability, from the old subsidized productivity to the necessary economic rationality and, above all, from suicide myopia negationist to the rigorous application of the precautionary principle against climate change. As the official Cedex studies show, we must prepare for a recession of average flow rates that can reach the order of 24% and up to 30% and 40% in the most sensitive basins if the Paris Agreements are not complied with, which, by the way, are clearly not being complied with. On the other hand, as has been said, there will be a drastic increase in the risks of drought and growth, as we are already suffering de facto in recent years. Certainly, these forecasts are subject to margins of uncertainty, so what is strictly required of us from the European Union is to rigorously apply the precautionary principle in the management of these risks, a principle which, far from apologizing to action in the face of uncertainty, requires preventing the most unfavourable plausible scenarios. It is not a question of being optimistic or pessimistic, but of being cautious, preparing ourselves for the worst plausible predictions that, in fact, as I have said, are likely to grow to the extent that the breach of the Paris Agreements is already assumed to be inevitable. In this context, the intention to manage future droughts with new large dams and transfers is not only a misguided, technical, not ideological, strategy, but also a massive misappropriation of funds, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] To the extent that droughts are not usually local, but regional, when the Segura enters water stress, the Jucar, the Ebro, the Llobregat and the head of the Tagus also generally enter, with which the transvastist strategies collapse and, if not, you look at the last drought and the forced inaction of the Tagus-Segura. With regard to the idea of launching a new wave of large dams, in the country with larger dams per inhabitant and square kilometer for the bad, the good and the regular, proposing this is like giving a purse to a poor one or it is like trying to solve a crisis or a personal economic collapse by opening up new current accounts in the banks. It doesn't make sense. I'll explain it another way. I am not against large dams and transfers, as I am not against, strictly speaking, motorways or airports, but I am radically against new motorways without cars, airports without planes and dams and transfers without water. [[Applauds]] And this is not ideology, it's basic economic and social wisdom, gentlemen of Citizens. [[Applauds]] The opinion offers a wide range of measures and strategies to address climate change, which gives me time just to mention the three that I think are most important. The first is to recover our aquifers, our natural water lungs, which today are ruined by the overexploitation of more than a million illegal wells. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! The challenge is not only to put an end to that national shame to ensure the sustainable use of these aquifers, but to recover them as key strategic reserve parts for managing future droughts. Secondly, hydrological planning must be sensible, responsible and courageous and demands must be scaled up in order to bring them into line with the actual availability foreseen in climate change scenarios. Finally, in the island territories and in the Mediterranean coastal areas, which are more sensitive to the problems of scarcity, a reasonable and prudent development of the new technologies of desalination, regeneration and reuse, but which are powered by solar and wind energy, must be promoted in order to open up effective prospects of sustainable self-sufficiency, and this is the case in territories such as Fuerteventura, El Hierro and Lanzarote, where it almost does not rain. With regard to national pacts, ladies and gentlemen, the social groups, trade unions and expert foundations have already taught us the lesson, they have been working for a year, they offer us the Social Agreement on Water, which you do not talk about, but which has been presented in this subcommittee. Here we have the example of an agreement of social organizations of all communities, including farmers, workers' unions and environmental movements, which already give us a concrete proposal for a social agreement on water in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Sharp Red. Mr García Mira has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u59	Good morning, everyone. It is surprising to hear from the particular votes of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party the accusation of ideology in this report which is being debated here today, as if the absence of politics during the People's Party government or the politics conducted in recent years were not deeply charged with ideology. We are dealing with a report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which comes to this plenary with a set of conclusions and recommendations drawn by the subcommittee for the study and elaboration of water policy proposals and thus address the challenges posed by climate change. It is a report that summarizes what has been said by a group of experts who have appeared in Congress, on the proposal of the different political groups, a report that does not pretend to be exhaustive and therefore does not go beyond what has been discussed in the Commission. It is an excellent working document that, based on the analysis of water policies in relation to the challenges of climate change in general, also poses the challenges of climate change, in particular for Spain, its regions and its basins. As such a report may have shortcomings, it may have other assessments and proposals that may develop, modify or reconsider in the light of new evidence, with a view to reaching the necessary and broad consensus on the development of regulations to which it may serve as a basis as a reference document. Therefore, it is not a law that is being debated here but a document that sets out how climate change can affect us and what to do for water adaptation. Climate change, ladies and gentlemen, is not something that is happening out there, it is something that is already happening in us, in our regions, in our cities, and we are increasingly witnessing its impacts through floods, through droughts, through changes in water cycles in many places in Spain. All this with the consequent damage not only to nature but also to regional economies, on which we have built our lifestyles and for which we have adequate policies for the management of resources such as water, because, looking at what has been done so far, we find sufficient motivation to justify this debate here and now. With regard to the particular votes cast by Citizens and the People's Party, we share the concern of both parliamentary groups to incorporate the challenges of climate change into water policy, we share some of the priorities for action identified, in particular those relating to resolving the breaches of the European Water Framework Directive for which the European Union has sanctioned Spain with millionaire fines, because there is a risk of further short-term breaches if we do not do something to avoid it. In this respect, the Socialist Government has already planned urgent measures to respond to more than a thousand infringement proceedings in Spain, which give us an idea of the situation in which we are in. On the other hand, the National Plan for Purification, Sanitation, Efficiency, Savings and Reuse, the so-called Dsear Plan, proposes medium- and long-term solutions that should be incorporated into the hydrological plans of the third cycle. This plan aims to ensure sustainable water management in its entire cycle that promotes savings, efficiency and transparency, paying special attention to the use of waste water to advance in the circular economy in savings, which ultimately goes in the direction that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of citizens are calling for. With this report and its recommendations, we must not forget that what is intended is to exercise responsibility. It is not only a question of pursuing compliance with the European directive but also of ensuring the resilience of the different basins and regions with a view to consolidating a transition towards sustainability in the different places of Spain. We do not, however, share what Citizens and the People's Party put forward in their particular votes regarding the lack of concreteness in the measures they propose. Ladies and gentlemen, you come to make such generic judgments that they are mere reflections that cannot be rebutted because they are mere obviations. In some cases, what presents more than a conclusion or recommendation is a genuine judgment of value which as such is entirely subjective and questionable. Finally, their diagnosis of the current situation is excessively negative because they do not provide data to support it or their criticism objective motivation at all. When they propose concrete measures, they are questionable; as I pointed out earlier, there are actions under way by the Government or planned actions. For example, as regards the circular economy and the role of water reuse in this context, they know of the existence of the European Union package for the transition of the circular economy in 2030, in which the Government is working to adapt Spanish legislation to the new European legislation. With regard to the reuse of water, the Government was well placed. We therefore criticise that a party such as the People's Party, which until just a few months ago occupied the Government of this country and has had in its hands to carry out all the measures it proposes, has not put in place one, one or the other, and is dedicated now to playing with the citizens and to asking forcefully to do what the Government has not given them the desire to do. And a party like Citizens, which is dedicated to political demagogy, lying to the citizens by declaring the intentions of this report as harmful to certain regions and making a pernicious interpretation of what it has intended to exemplify with some of the cases that reveal imbalances that demand policies that correct the most negative impacts. There are therefore strong contradictions in your approach, Mr Rodríguez. And of course they raise ideological issues, how they won't!, responsible water management requires it. In short, the report aims to anticipate climate change in water management and reduce the exposure and vulnerability of its impacts, seeking the necessary balance to enable national policies and human actions to be adapted and brought into line with European policy and the future development and maintenance of the economies that depend on this precious asset. The Socialist Group therefore sees it compatible to respond to climate change and to ensure water for social and economic development in all the territories of Spain, but with solutions that take advantage of all the available and existing infrastructures, guaranteeing the mix of water availability so that no lack of mouth water for the agri-food sector, for tourism and for industry, but also with solutions that will have to face with security and certainty the water supply throughout the country, especially in those areas with prolonged droughts, that will be further aggravated by the effect of climate change; solutions that go through interventions based on the management of natural resources - naturebased solutions, as would be said in its original name - as the United Nations also points out, and so has been taken among its priorities by the European Union in its economic, environmental, industrial but also research and innovation strategy. Just take a look at the Horizon Europe Programme. Finally, I would like to say that the Government is fulfilling its obligations to advance a real water pact and we regret that both citizens and the PP, rather than doing water policy, prefer to do politics with water, struggling to avoid making that pact a reality and refusing to make and order the contributions made by the experts with the consequent damage to citizens, industry and our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u60	Thank you very much, Mr García Mira.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u61	We conclude with the agenda item on the direct and single reading of the draft law on improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u62	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to everyone. I compare today to present, justify and explain the fundamental contents of the bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, as it is intended to be done in this House in the process of parliamentary decision on the norm. The amendments contained in this bill correct the provisions of Royal Decree Law 14/2012 of 20 April, in particular, as regards teachers of non-university public education. The exceptional measures taken by the previous Government for the sake of budgetary stability made it necessary for the public sector, in particular the faculty, to bear enormous burdens that generated numerous protests. This simple rule that we present today is intended to correct those cuts that are causing profound damage to our educational system. The repeal of the 20% increase in the ratio of pupils per classroom, the increase in the minimum part of teaching time for teaching staff and the ten-day deadline for replacing them is a clear improvement in the working conditions of non-university teachers, as I will argue in this intervention. In order for the competent educational administrations to be able to apply them in the next 20192020 course, they must be approved sufficiently in advance, so that they can be taken into account in the organization and planning of the next school year. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we all share that the weight of the education system rests primarily on the teaching staff, because it depends on the success of the system and thus on the future of the children and young people who come to our centres. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that they can do their job well with conditions that allow them sufficient dedication to their students, directly attending to them and planning their teaching. The fact that teachers have adequate conditions for the exercise of their teaching work favours the learning and training of their pupils, and these conditions depend, among other factors, on the number of pupils to whom they must attend simultaneously, which must enable them to devote sufficient time to each of them and also to structure their working time, the time they can devote to each of their tasks, which are not only the teaching but also those of planning, preparation or training. The Government intends to gradually return to the system the normality and resources cut during the economic crisis. That is why I am now introducing this bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, which is now being approved in this House. It is a measure that is not testimonyal, it has undoubtedly transcendence in order to restore the dignity of the public teacher, who deserves it well. Royal Decree-Law 14/2012 of 20 April 2012 sought to combine the objectives of quality and efficiency of the education system with the fulfilment of the objectives of budgetary stability and its reflection in the containment of public expenditure and in the offer of public employment. According to such a statement of reasons, such measures were justified as exceptional by the economic situation of the moment. Since this rule was approved by the former Government with the force of law because of the urgency and necessity of the situation, it requires another of the same legal rank for its repeal. As the circumstances of urgency and necessity established by the Constitution for the adoption of a royal decree-law are not at present, the Congress of Deputies is competent to adopt a legal rule that repeals the effects and restrictive measures of the 2012 rule and thus reverts to normality. In view of the favourable development of the country's economic situation and the subsequent adoption of other rules with an impact on the aspects covered by the measures adopted at the time, the revision and updating of that 2012 rule is inevitable. The containment of public expenditure in an unfavourable economic situation does not justify, ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration in the quality of education and teaching tasks caused by these measures. In any case, since 2016, including, GDP has exceeded that which existed before the crisis, that is, we have, with this, three courses in which the economic argument is no longer justified. If you will allow me, I will briefly describe the rule before the House today. The project has a single article, with the three measures that I have put in place: enabling educational administrations to take the necessary measures in relation to the ratios, the establishment of teaching hours for teaching staff and the immediate repeal of the period of absence of replacements. Article 2 of the 2012 Royal Decree-Law allows the maximum ratio of pupils per classroom set out in the LOE to be raised by up to 20% when budget laws do not authorize the incorporation of re-entry staff or a replacement rate of less than 50% is established. But the fact that the General Budgets of the State laws for 2016, 2017 and 2018 already established a replacement rate of 100% for the access to teaching bodies in the public administrations with educational competences for the development of the Organic Law of Education, already implies the assumption that the economic situation that motivated the approval of the royal decree-law has been overcome. It is therefore unnecessary to maintain the measure. I must point out that the abolition of this measure has no impact on public spending, as provided for by the General Budget laws of the State in recent years... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u64	... for which the previous Executive has been responsible, thus resolving one of the main doubts about the absence of an increase in public expenditure expressed at the time. On the contrary, the maintenance of this measure would have a high impact on the guarantee of the quality levels of education, which are affected by the increase in pupils per classroom. The second of the issues to be repealed from the above-mentioned Royal Decree-Law is article 3, the increase of the minimum part of the teaching day of teaching staff that imparts the teachings regulated by the Organic Law on Education in public schools, up to a minimum of twenty-five hours in children's education and twenty hours in the remaining teachings. This is an aspect that has been regulated by each Education Administration. Although the Constitutional Court has endorsed the competence of the State to regulate on a basic basis the minimum teaching day in its judgments 26/2016 and 54/2016, among others, in the face of the change of economic situation it seems reasonable to reverse the situation and that it is the educational administrations that have the same scope to regulate it as they had before 2012. This does not affect the working hours of teachers, which remain within the same limits as for other public employees. Each Education Authority will be able to take the decision it deems most appropriate. From the first transfers in the field of education until 2012, ladies and gentlemen, it was the autonomous communities with educational competences that determined the teaching part of the teaching day and did not create any problems, precisely because this competence favored the responsibility of the self-government of the autonomous communities. Nor does this measure imply an increase in public expenditure. When it was adopted in 2012 there was no reduction to the autonomous communities of a single euro of the funds for their financing, no revision of the valuations of the actual decrees of transfers of functions and services, no reduction in concept, meant a wider margin of savings of expenditure for the communities. Now, this rule that I present to you implies that those who want to reverse the measure can do so within their self-government, just as they did on the one-way trip. So let us also add to the government's efforts to increase the resources of the territorial administrations through the spending ceiling negotiations with the European Union and others resulting from the establishment of new funding funds or new budgetary paths. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, make the effort to adopt a more social General State Budgets Act for 2019, as this government is seeking. The third and last of the issues to be repealed by Royal Decree-Law 14/2012 concerns article 4, which includes that the appointment of interim staff by temporary replacement of full-time teachers will occur only after ten school days have elapsed, two real weeks since the situation that gave rise to that appointment. As in the previous cases, the fifth final provision of Law 48/2015, on State General Budgets for 2016, already laid down assumptions for the immediate appointment of interim officials for temporary replacement of the incumbents in the following cases: when the substitute teacher pays attention to students with specific educational support needs; in educational establishments with fewer than two educational lines; when he provides teaching in the second baccalaureate course; where the cause of the replacement is the situation of maternity, paternity, adoption or foster care, in accordance with the Civil Code or the civil laws in the autonomous communities that regulate it. Also in this case the change in the 2016 budgets eased the situation of educational administrations, especially because of the burdensome and harshness that was that measure for the organization of the ordinary activity of educational institutions. [[The Lord]] Beyond its hypothetical contribution to the efficiency of public resources, it has had a negative impact on the organizational effectiveness of educational institutions as well as on the quality of education and care for pupils. I must also point out that the economic justification is the same as in the preceding paragraph. I'm concluding, ladies and gentlemen. In early September the preliminary draft was known to the Council of Ministers, although this minister had already presented a report on its content. In addition to his presentation to the Sectoral Conference of the Autonomous Communities and the Sectoral Trade Union Bureau, he has been subjected to public information, according to the regulations. The State School Council, in accordance with its law and regulations, issued a report along with the Ministries of Finance, Territorial Policy and our own technical general secretariat. The project was accompanied by the mandatory memory of normative impact analysis that contains an executive summary with the opportunity of the proposal, its legal analysis, that of competitive, economic and budgetary impacts, of gender, on children, families and others. It includes the timing of the proposal, content, analysis and processing, among other considerations. In any case, Royal Decree-Law 14/2012 consolidated the reduction in public educational expenditure that had been occurring since 2010; only the sum of the 2013 and 2014 cuts on resources earmarked for 2012 exceeded, ladies and gentlemen, the €32 billion, which was 6.9% compared to the total of 2012. All this in a context of an increase in the number of pupils, more than 80 000 pupils in the two courses following that of the standard. Those were the effects. Ladies and gentlemen, education systems cannot offer imprecise answers, they must offer the same opportunities for education to everyone, to all and to all young people; they must respect diversity and meet all kinds of demands. The allocation of resources must above all clearly reflect the collective decisions of the arbitrations that each society makes to ensure its economic, social and cultural development. We and we, ladies and gentlemen, now have a responsibility to raise the quality of our education because raising the quality of education is to raise the country's economic, social and political improvement. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. An amendment to the entire alternative text and nineteen amendments to the joint text have been submitted to this draft law. For the defence of your amendments and to stand in relation to the rest, I have the floor in the first place, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Coalition Canaria and the Government of the Canary Islands, and as they were told, we share the view that the situation of the pre-crisis education sector should be restored, but we have tabled an amendment because what cannot be admitted is that school hours do not have a financial record. The issue of the ratio will simply amount to EUR 60 million. The Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands has a characteristic different from most communities and is that it has a surplus. Canary Islands is demanding that this surplus generated in the Canary Islands itself allow us to incorporate it not into investments, but into essential services, health and education, in order to reverse the cuts that forced us to make. What's going on? That now, theoretically - because I am one of those that I think there is going to be no budget - that new margin of deficit goes so that those who have not fulfilled can have more deficit, but those who have surplus do not come to us from the 25 billion - if there were budget, that will not see it - and, above all, the savings that we have do not let us incorporate it. In order for you to know, for example, the autonomous community in the 2019 budgets has already proposed all these measures conditional on the state letting the money from the Canary Islands surplus be incorporated. That is the amendment we have tabled. It's fundamental to us. We have the added cost of insularity, which implies that in certain centres the population ratio does not correspond, that is already compensated in the Economic and Fiscal System. We will support the ministry in these measures, but what cannot happen next is that each community goes at a different pace. In the end, we have the most failure at school and we need more budget in education and above we have fulfilled and we also have surplus, we are not allowed to put the financial statement. Thus, in the end, each community will go at its own pace and will follow the differences in this country in terms of school failure, success and improvement of education according to the economic situation, in many cases inherited in other autonomous communities from bad managers or good managers. In this regard, our support for educational measures and our demand that money be allowed, since the canaries - not governments, but citizens - have tightened their belts, can be invested in education, health care and essential services. The future goes to us in education, in improving education. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in previous debates we have already said what, in our view, are the pillars that can promote better education in Spain. First, respect the freedom of parents to choose the education of their children. The State has no children to educate and, therefore, must naturally assume a plurality of complementary educational models. Secondly, improve quality and, for this, obviously have the best teachers, well-paid, well-directed and well-motivated. By the way, I have not just understood the logic of improving their conditions and, at the same time, with that improvement, assume to lower the educational limit of our education. Honestly, I don't understand if that's your ambition. Thirdly, ensuring effective equality of opportunity, which means recognizing that we are the same but that we are different, adapting the system to each other's capacities. Fourth, form in values. We are talking about a society and the crisis of values, but we cannot build a society of values without people with values. Fifth, establish a constant evaluation to correct problems and adapt education to change. And finally, ensuring effective accountability, which does not work, and how to correct it among all. What we do know, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what goes in the opposite direction to these objectives: to use languages to create stagnant communities and exclusionary public projects, to educate in hatred, to invent grievances by distorting historical reality, as well as to put education at the service of gender social engineering. By the way, the Navarra educational community is called upon to oppose the Skolae gender engineering project, which is being promoted by the Government of Navarra, with a concentration this Saturday at twelve in the Plaza de la Insumión, where we will certainly be many members of UPN. Madam Minister, this project is a patch; in our opinion, a very expensive patch with no ambition, as I said, because it does not touch those pillars that we should touch or, worse still, because it seems rather a payment in advance, subtle, of a government hostage to its motion partners. Preventing it in some way is the objective of our amendment. I'm done. As Professor Marina acknowledges, the challenges of education are other: dropping out of school, repeater rate, dignity of VET, political use or disconnection of education from the world of work. On these issues, Minister, you will be able to count on our cooperation, but as you turn away from these challenges, you will obviously not be able to count on our applause. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nelson Mandela said that it is through education that a peasant's daughter can become a doctor, that the son of a miner can become the head of the mine, and that the descendant of a farmer can become president of a great nation. And he was very right, because education equals us, education allows people to question our environment and not repeat mistakes of the past. And this, unfortunately, is well known by the right-wings, who attack, both when they are in government and when they are in opposition, directly to both education and teaching. They cut everything that has to do directly with the education system, they know it when they diverge from the agreements and consensus in the educational laws, they know it when they feed the concerted and asphyxiate the public, they know it who has modified the Education Act against the opinion of parents, teachers and the whole educational community. Because, in order to have a good educational quality, one has to bet on the quality of the teacher, of the teaching function, one has to invest in professionals, one has to reduce ratios, one has to allow time for preparation of classes and even training out of what is strictly curriculum. This is being done in some places, we are doing it in the Valencià Country, it is being done by Councillor Marzà reducing students in the classrooms, hiring more teachers to be able to attend the student with the creation of 6000 new places in three and a half years and even improving schools with the Edificant Plan or guaranteeing free books with Xarxallibres, despite the lack of funding and prioritizing the investment, because in Compromís we are clear, education is one of our priorities and teachership as well. Much remains to be done, no doubt, there are many failures in our proposals, as in any other, because to have a good education system, to be able to hire more professionals, to reduce the number of students we need funding to pay for it, and that is exactly what we find missing in this law. In short, it is obviously necessary to bet on a quality teaching function - in that we will always agree - that it can educate our children critically, knowing the past, questioning the present and building a better future. The teacher needs to be able to carry out his work in decent conditions, and there Compromís will always be, in everything that implies less students, closer to teaching and recognition of the work inside and outside of what is strictly the classroom. Returning to Nelson Mandela, he also said that education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. So let us allow our faculty to devote themselves to educating, teaching, questioning and reasoning. Let us trust the faculty and dignify, of course, their work. Let us make them work more slowly, that they can devote themselves to their students; only in this way will we get a peasant's daughter to become a doctor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u72	Thank you, President. Good day, gentlemen. Good morning, minister. Surely, today is a good day in terms of educational policies because we are starting an interesting path - you know my opinion about it - but today is undoubtedly a sad day because for a year now Carme Forcadell has been deprived of his liberty and wanted to take advantage of this intervention to remember her, to remember the injustice that some of the Catalan political leaders who are incarcerated are suffering. [[applause]] [[The lady]] I told him, Minister, that today is certainly a good day because we started dismantling one of the most fatal educational political projects for education in this country. You know our opinion on this, we know yours and that is why you will find our support in this initiative that you present here today. But he also knows that we do not settle for that, that we want to go a little further, because if it is true that Lomce was harmful in terms of ratios, teachers and educational quality, it was also in terms of what is key for us to guarantee quality and social cohesion in Catalonia, which is linguistic immersion. Yesterday President Sánchez asked this House for Catalan groups to bring proposals with 75% support from Catalans. Today I bring you one, which is the linguistic immersion, which was approved in the Parliament of Catalonia with all the votes in favour, except those of the People's Group, under the umbrella of the Catalan Education Act. When fifty Members of this House submitted an appeal to Catalonia's education law, they did not touch the articles referring to linguistic immersion, and when Members of this House submitted an appeal to the Statute d'Autonomie de Catalunya, they did not touch the articles referring to linguistic immersion. You therefore have here a proposal that has the support of more than 75% of Catalans, as President Sánchez asked yesterday. I ask your parliamentary group to accept our amendment to repeal the thirty-eighth additional provision, which is the one that disfigures and dismantles in a very clear way a system of linguistic immersion, which has been the system that has worked for the past forty years and which has given a guarantee of social cohesion and educational quality as it has not given in other Spanish territories. Today I have heard from this rostrum that the language is used to generate a speech of hatred, as if the speech of hatred depended on the language used to give it, as if a speech of hatred could not be given in Spanish, English, French or Mandarin. Minister, today you and your group have the opportunity to start reversing the situation not only in what you propose, but also in linguistic immersion, which is a guarantee of quality. Because you know that the majorities of this House are who they are and that the majority of the Bureau is who it is and that it has the capacity to block those initiatives that it does not like. That is unethical, but legitimate from the point of view of parliamentary management. You know that the majorities are who they are, who are going to use them and who are not going to allow us to dismantle that law, as it should be dismantled to give this country the education it deserves. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the gentlemen of the government are coming here today with a bill that I believe is going to go into the annals of the history of this House for their pompousness. I will read the title textually: draft law on improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. Anyone who is not in the parliamentary world, when he reads this, will understand that this is going to try to modernize the circumstances, the contexts in which teachers and teachers work. Any Spanish in good faith at best thought that with this project the Government of the Socialist Party had proposed an amendment and had decided that it would put on the table the debate on how to improve the subject of teacher training, that of teacher induction, dedusting, for example, the project of the educational mir that Rubalcaba did in his day and that he presented with Angel Gabilondo. Or that Dr. Sánchez at some point thought that he had erred in raising himself from the educational pact and that he was going to do here what the educational community has been asking for for for years, a development of the teaching statute, for example; improvement of the educational quality. Or that the Minister of Education, among the Friday rallies, had thought that they could bring a bill for the improvement of continuing training or professional career, which is something that when you talk to teachers and teachers ask. But no, none of that. The PSOE government brings absolutely nothing of that. In fact, what we propose with this law of such pompous name is pure and plainly a derogation in the line of no is no. [[Applauds]] That's it. I could have called it a derogation, and we'd be done sooner. In particular, as the Minister explained, the repeal of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of Royal Decree 14/2012 of urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the field of education. Before I begin to evaluate it, it tells me a great deal that the first proposed measure brought by the Socialist Government in the field of education to this House is to repeal the errors of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] This is what there is, it's a flashback to the past as if since 2006, they say the conditions were good, so far nothing would have happened in this country. We return to shoemaking, and these are the improvements in the conditions of teachers in this country. That is what the PSOE brings as an educational proposal in this context. But they also do it with a fake project, with a tongo, with forgiveness, to which we are already accustomed, because they have put us, with a unique and urgent reading, something that is already there. It is that what they come to propose that it be repealed de facto is already repealed, and I will explain why. Although it is true that a legal stability is needed - now I will tell you that it is in the only thing that coincides with your project, that a legal stability is needed - for normative matters, the truth, Mrs Celáa, is that, as far as Article 2 was concerned, which raised the ratios, if you have read the General Budgets of the State of 2016, 2017 and 2018 that we negotiated when the People's Party was in place, they already contemplated the reversal of the replacement rates and the replacement of the 100 percent in the access to the teaching bodies. Therefore, that cut that was in the de facto decree was already abrogated. Another issue is that you in the autonomous communities where you have ruled or where you have allowed your nationalist partners to rule do not manage properly and have not applied it in practice, but that is something else. [[Applauds]] Article 3, which regulates teaching hours, has already been virtually annulled by all educational administrations. Tell me only one community in which it remains in force, apart from Ceuta and Melilla, who depend on you. Move it. Article 4 concerning the replacement of acting teachers in public centres had already been rectified in the general budgets of 2016 and if it is not fulfilled it is the same, I insist, because bad management is done by you or your partners. But the most serious thing is not that they want to give us cat for hare thinking they're going to put medals on things that are already made, which is a bit surrealistic; the most serious thing is that they haven't even had the decency to set up a single deadline to carry out the measures they say they're going to do. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u76	Finally, this is nothing more than a proposal for fireworks to which, unfortunately, the Government of Falcons, Hands and Photos has already accustomed us. [[Applauds]] But there is more, because, for more inri, all this is done with the PSOE method on legislative issues, which is the method of imposition, which is the diametrically opposed to consensus, and I say it so that it is known. Because since you rose from the Bureau of the educational pact, you have taken the pleasure in trying to do things in the field of education because you are worth it, without reaching agreements, without sitting with the unions, without sitting with the parliamentary groups and doing so very quickly. I'm going to ask you a question: What are you afraid to sit down and negotiate? Why deal with these issues as a matter of urgency and with a single reading that affect so radically the educational community that they like to talk about so much? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we support the amendment of the articles, as I have told you, to give regulatory stability and to give legal guarantees. But there is a very important difference between you and Citizens, we do not settle and we do not believe that the teaching conditions of 2006 are what teachers have to have, we need to improve them. Therefore, lords of sanchism, we have done our duties from a constructive point of view, seeking to improve things always, as we citizens do in education, with a smile, trying to reach consensus and improve the education of this country. We have done their duties and tabled an amendment to the whole of the building, which I believe you could even vote on, leaving aside your own proposal for a law. Because, what does our amendment propose in its entirety? On the one hand, we take the articles on education that you have put in place and indeed we provide them with a regulatory framework and we want to repeal them, but not only that, because we want to ensure equal teaching and learning conditions for all children in this country and that is why we have put four fundamental points. Firstly, in our amendment to the whole, we ask you, we propose and we want the basic status of the teacher to develop within six months. Teachers or teachers have been asking for it for years, be brave, get to work and do it. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we ask you that the central administration - you have said so, there are judgments of the Constitutional Court; it is your job - develop the definition of teaching time in a basic regulatory framework. You can't make a distribution of credits if you don't know how much and what the school hour is. Develop the concept of teaching time and set a minimum of equal teaching hours for all autonomous communities because what they are doing is shooting with other people's gunpowder and generating more educational inequalities, leaving functions that we already have used to. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we also ask you to establish the minimum and basic conditions for the ordination of the lists of interims in this country. It cannot be that, depending on the autonomous community where an interim is, has some criteria or has others. Be brave, make a general regulatory framework and then each autonomous community on the basis of these criteria order its lists. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the Government, they have brought this project and are again talking about the modification of the Lomce and the social consensus. I am concerned, very concerned because, indeed, you live in a permanent alienation, on a day of constant marmot thinking that consensus is capitalized by infused science and you come with the home consensus and believe that you can speak on behalf of the educational community. This isn't going like this. To achieve consensus, you have to sit with them, you have to talk to them, as we have done. The amendment to the whole that we bring to you is not an amendment that we have made in our offices because we are imbued with knowledge about education; we have negotiated it with the unions, that is what many trade unions are asking for. I therefore ask you, even if you do not listen to me or believe me, to listen to and comply with the amendment that we have proposed to you, because it is reasonable, it is common sense and will improve, this yes, the real conditions of teaching and learning for children in this country without generating greater inequalities, which is the serious problem that we have. [[Applauds]] And because, moreover, you would return to common sense, you would return to that moment, in that flashback, in which you rose from that educational covenant that you yourselves asked for. Consider the amendments we have tabled, support them, because they will really improve teaching and teaching in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after Marta Martín's speech, all I have to say is to congratulate her and tell her that, since they are going to rule with Vox in Andalusia, all those good intentions are proposed to them, to see if they are accepted. [[Applauds]] Royal Decree 14/2012 has been the main tool that the governments of the People's Party have had to strangle educational investment and, beyond the budgetary question, to shield a classist and segregating educational model. In fact, as a result of the neoliberal adjustment program... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little silence. Thank you. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u80	He said that, following the neoliberal adjustment programme, Spain has been one of the countries in our environment that invests least in education and one of the countries where the socio-economic origin of students has the most weight in determining their school success. These years of hard adjustment our education system has stopped entering 8 billion euros, a real hole that is noted in the instability of teaching staff, in the proliferation of ghetto centers or in the lack of means to address school failure. We come, therefore, from a stage marked by the ideological cuts of the People's Party and by a widespread attack on public education. But today we have an opportunity, the opportunity to folder the scissors of the People's Party and repeal this infamous decree. This is the first step the educational community was calling for. For this reason, I also wanted to begin this intervention by showing my gratitude to the green tides and the educational community, which never gave up and which fought on the streets for a quality public education for all and for all. [[Applauds]] Royal Decree 14/2012 has altered the central elements that determine the fairness and quality of an educational system, from the working conditions of the faculty to the measures of care for the students who need it most, to the most vulnerable students. In fact, if we take stock of these years of cuts, the consequences cannot be more negative. For example, the extension of the teaching day for teachers, together with the fall in the replacement rate, has meant that 32,000 teachers have been expelled from our classrooms, of which only 9000 have been recovered today. On the other hand, the delay in replacements for teachers who were getting bad and could not go that day to class, that delay of up to fifteen days, has meant the loss of thousands of hours of class and tutoring for the student, which together with the increase in the ratio - of up to 20% - has meant that the quality of the teaching and the individualized care of the students has worsened. Each and every one of these measures has been a blow to the right to education, which, as always, has fallen on the classes and popular sectors of our country. Therefore, the repeal of Royal Decree 14/2012 was and is an urgent matter, so urgent that we think it should be repealed already; it could have been repealed this summer by Royal Decree and start this school year without the cuts of the People's Party. They know that from the U.S. We may have asked them to do so on several occasions, but they did not want to make that decision. In any case, it is better late than never, the government brings us this bill that we are going to support because it would be incomprehensible to start the 2019-2020 course by dragging back the cuts of the People's Party. Similarly, we ask you to take one more step, we ask you for a little more push, and we therefore believe that at this point we should not just be content with reversing what the People's Party has done, but we also need to improve our education system and bring it into line with European standards in order to take steps towards an education system with higher levels of equity and educational quality. That is why we have tabled two amendments to this bill which we hope this Government will accept, and we are negotiating a compromise with the Socialist Group. The first has to do with something as fundamental as lowering teacher/student ratios and adapting ratios... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u82	He said that the first amendment we tabled concerns reducing those teacher-student ratios and adapting them to those of the educational systems in our environment. In OECD countries, in fact, the average number of pupils per class is 21, for example, at the primary stage, although in some countries it is even lower, for example in Finland or Switzerland. That is why we are asking not only to return to what was already in 2006, but to take a step further and reduce it to 20 or 21 students per class, because that would allow greater attention and prevention of school failure. It is scientifically proven that at less ratios per class, better educational outcomes. Secondly, we are presenting an amendment which seeks to bring the teaching day into line with European standards, because not all the problems of our teachers have to do with the lack of training or the access system, as is said in some areas. In fact, our teachers, our teachers are among the European teachers who have less time for other activities that have to do with tutoring. In fact, in Spain, the percentage of hours of direct education compared to total working time is 50% in secondary education, one of the highest percentages in the OECD; in the rest of the countries in our environment, only 43% is devoted. Spanish high school teachers make 217 hours more than in Finland, 195 hours more than in Germany and 70 hours more than in France. Therefore, the adequacy of the teacher's weekly teaching hours is also an urgent measure, necessary to encourage time to be devoted to the preparation of classes, to the preparation of contents, to the evaluation, to the coordination or simply to the tutoring of the student, which without any doubt will also benefit the results of our educational system. In short, today we are going to vote in favour of this bill, which is de facto the repeal of Royal Decree 14/2012, but we also ask the government for more ambition and more push, because it is not simply about returning to the time of the LOE or doing the same educational policy as the PP with less cuts. I conclude this intervention by asking you to listen to the educational community as well, reminding you that you were the signatories of the basic document for a new education law, and that we place the defense of the public and equity as the axes of our educational agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Serna. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, some groups in this House are right when they point out that anyone who can read the title of this preliminary draft might think that what it contains is nothing more or less than the deepest revolution regarding the exercise of teaching and the conditions of the teacher, but, unfortunately, anyone who continues to read will notice that reality is another. The truth is that this resounding title hides a bill without any ambition at all. Of the measures that the Government is bringing to this House, two of them are already being applied in similar terms to which the bill itself requests; one in full, the one referring to the ratios - as the minister herself has pointed out - and one in part, the one relating to the substitutes of the faculty. By the way, when you again refer to the implementation of the Organic Education Law, the LOE, in relation to the student ratio, first of all, hide that before and after Lomce a 10% increase in the number of pupils was already allowed, as referred to in Article 87 of that Law itself. Secondly, since the increase in ratios was conditional on the replenishment rate of the faculty - a replenishment rate that when the previous socialist government in 2011 left the government was 35 % and since 2016 with the government of the People's Party is 100 % -, it has not only returned to the terms laid down in the basic regulations, but in practice the ratios are below what the law itself establishes, above all, Lords of Podemos, in public education. Just a few examples. While the basic regulations state that ratios can be 25 pupils in primary school and 30 in secondary school, the reality is that the average in our schools and classrooms is 21.9 pupils in primary school and 25.4 pupils in secondary school. Ladies and gentlemen, our ratios are not only below what is laid down in the basic regulations themselves, even with the implementation of Royal Decree Law 14/2012, but are on the OECD average. In fact, some countries in our environment with better results in the education system that we have far higher averages than the number of pupils in the classroom; for example, in the United Kingdom there are 26 pupils in primary school. Therefore, this incendiary discourse of destruction of public education and overcrowding in the classrooms that we have sometimes heard from certain radical sectors suffices to refer it to reality in order to frame it in the most absolute and total falsehood. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new brings this bill to the conditions for improving the quality of our education system. These are not the challenges facing the educational system if they are to increase their quality, let alone the most relevant issues in relation to the faculty. The most significant and worrying thing about this bill is the reference to the working conditions of the faculty and, more specifically, to the number of teaching hours that the faculty must perform. I say this in these terms - worrying - because this wording of the project clearly shows that the Spanish Government explicitly renounces its competence in what constitutes the cornerstone for the improvement of the quality of the education system, which is the teacher. [[Applauds]] That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law submitted by the Government to debate delegate to the Autonomous Communities the working conditions for the exercise of teaching and does so despite the fact that this exercise corresponds to a regulated profession as guarantor of a fundamental right, which is the right to education and, as guarantor of a fundamental right, the right to education, the competence of the State. In addition, it does so in a clear contradiction with the very explanatory statement of the draft law, which does refer to the rulings of the Constitutional Court of 2016, which have endorsed the competence of the State to regulate the minimum teaching hours of teachers on a basic basis; a question, on the other hand, which is being demanded by the vast majority of the education sector and, specifically, by teachers and embodied in the agreements of the State School Council itself. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of the amendment that the People's Parliamentary Group is submitting to the Government's initiative. It is an amendment that begins to define in very clear terms what should be the great pending reform in relation to the faculty, based on equal opportunities, equal rights and equal obligations. Madam Minister, you have marked a very unambitious playing field in relation to this bill and, despite that, this parliamentary group has not tabled an amendment to its entire text. Firstly, because, as I have already pointed out, some of the measures envisaged did not need this bill, because in practice their current application corresponds to the legislation before Decree 14/2012. Secondly, because we are first interested in abolishing some of the measures envisaged in the 2012 decree, some of which have already been reversed by the facts, as I have pointed out before. And we also want you to understand us perfectly. We are fully aware of the enormous effort - we will never tire of thanking the whole of Spanish society and specifically the teacher - which involved the implementation of that decree; a decree which was an exceptional fact in the face of an exceptional moment and which you yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, have recognized in the bill. In addition, this effort and the implementation of measures combining quality, effectiveness and efficiency have allowed the education system not to suffer at the harshest moments of the economic crisis in our country. The education system is no worse, ladies and gentlemen, than in 2011, it is much better than in 2011. Moreover, we must thank the teachers in large part that today our country has an early drop-out rate of 18.2%, certainly closer to that 15% that marks us Europe... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u85	Mrs. Moneo, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, can we please keep a little silence? It's a good thing Mrs. Moneo has a good voice, because if it wasn't impossible that we could hear her. Go ahead, Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u86	Thank you, Madam President. He told them that we are closer to that 15% that the European Union marks for us by 2020 and, of course, very far from that 28% that the former People's Party government inherited. At least you will have to acknowledge, Minister, that the inheritance you have received is much better than that received by your predecessors, and not only in relation to early educational abandonment, but also in relation to the teacher. [[applause]] Today there are more teachers in non-university education than when the crisis began, 21,529 more teachers, and those, by the way, sit mostly in public education, because 70.7% are teachers of public education; that, ladies and gentlemen, some of you are committed to placing yourself within the misfortunes of the People's Party government. No misfortunes, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, better results, better teachers and more equal opportunities. [[Applauds]] The unions themselves recognize it. The unions themselves point out that, as a result of the agreement on the call for the public offer of employment and the plan for the stabilization of the public sector, there are 4.4% more teachers in this course than in the previous one. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we believe in the teaching staff and in the fundamental role that they play in the quality of the education system has also weighed on the decision not to submit an amendment to the whole on the basis of their limited and unambitious proposal, understanding that it was up to you to give legal form to what was already taking place through the facts, but what we cannot let go is that you, with your rule, de facto break the national bodies of the teaching staff, as you yield your powers to the arbitrariness of what the autonomous communities decide, design a teaching staff with different rights and obligations and take a step further towards the definitive breakdown of the Spanish education system. In this, Your Honor, we cannot agree, it is impossible to agree, and we also deeply regret it. The equal rights, duties and opportunities of teachers must be present in all decisions taken by the Government. For us this is unnegotiable. It is not enough, moreover, with a recommendation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, it is virtually impossible - excuse me - to listen to the speaker. Please, I know we need to talk about a lot of things, but if they are so interesting and so important do it outside the House or in a slightly lower tone. Excuse me, Mrs. Moneo, I don't like interrupting, but it's impossible. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u88	Thank you, Madam President. It is not enough, moreover, with a recommendation, as set out in the amendment negotiated between the Socialist Party and the Podemos Group - little ambition the Podemos Group has had in this case -. The competences of the State are to develop those of its own, and more so if they refer to fundamental rights. The power of the State lies in promoting legislative initiative and in enforcing and enforcing the law, not recommending it. If the improvements in teaching conditions seem so important to you - we do, because a good teacher affects up to 30% of the pupils' performance - that equality of opportunity and improvement of conditions will have to be decided above all the teacher, come from wherever he comes from, reside where he resides and teach his classes in the centre where he does. [[The lady]] Minister: funding. If you leave the decision of the school day in the hands of the autonomous communities, you avoid a budgetary commitment, you, who claimed 5% of GDP, and your group, who rose from the state pact for education, because you know that the reduction of the day implies a greater hiring of teachers and that this implies greater investment, investment that requires adequate and sufficient funding, as the amendment of the People's Party says, and that it must also assume the state. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, we shall abstain in your amendment as a whole. I am sure that you and we agree with the objectives, but I must tell you clearly that technically there are some issues that cannot be assumed with a bill of this profile, in any case, in a further development. If we aspire to be a government, and we aspire to be a government, we must be rigorous both in the regulatory technique and in the development that defines the competition field. Minister, I'm done. The teacher requires something more from this project, it requires a commitment determined by the design of the professional career, a change in the system of access and an impulse to their personal, economic and professional recognition. A few years ago you and we agreed on a change in the selection system, we agreed on the educational mir. Today I'm afraid you're hostages to your government partners and not even that defense of the faculty's national bodies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u89	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u90	... is one of its priorities. I'm so sorry, really. We believe that education is a matter of state, and as long as you renounce it, I fear you will not be able to count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti intervenes in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[PNV]] [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak from the seat, if I may, and I will do so very briefly, because the most important thing that my group has to say about this matter has already been said when the royal decree was validated and we have not changed our speech nor have we anything new to add that we did not say at that time. Obviously, this is no revolution, Mrs Moneo, but neither did it have to be. The great involution was the Lomce. This is to cover holes or water channels and so that you can balance the great hunchback that produced the Lomce at the time. Since there are certain issues of urgency, what the Act seeks to establish are measures to resolve basic and simple issues. What did the famous Royal Decree 14/2012, as did the 16/2012 in health, was to generate a total chaos, which, moreover, did not even serve to save money, which was supposed to be... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u93	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u94	...what I was trying to do. Therefore, my group is not going to support the amendments that you have tabled, of course, both the amendments of the whole and those of the People's Party, because we believe that they are not necessary, because what they do is change what is really meant by this, which is to return to a rational and normal situation. And there is another important issue, and it is that it gives the autonomous communities and educational institutions the autonomy they must have, because they are the competent ones. Mrs Moneo, what you call arbitrary, I call it competence; that is, it is not the arbitrariness of the Autonomous Communities, it is the competence of the Autonomous Communities, which have to govern this series of issues. This is our position. We hope that the real revolution or solution of the involution will come when we have a bill that replaces the Lomce, which generated a great disguise at the time, and we can direct the issue of education.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u95	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u96	President, Members, Members, Members of Parliament is listening. I have tried to listen to the speeches that have been made before and the truth is that I have not been surprised, but a lesson. The lesson is that the bench on the right, minister, thinks of other things, thinks of elections, but does not think of education. [[Rumors]] Vox's entry into the Andalusian Parliament has been like vitamins, like those spinach that made me eat when I was little because they gave me extraordinary strength. I hope, the Socialist Party bench, that they will not die of what might have been and is not, because this would be more dangerous than that of the right-wing bench. We need to talk about education, because there are emergencies in education, because there has been a terrible blow in these years. [[Rumors]] Imagine, the educational alternative if you win the right with Vox is to do the same as these two years, is to keep the Lomce and worse. This is the educational alternative, think about it. Therefore, teachers cannot wait. For any teacher who has been working these years this decree is important, for any teacher, because he has made a huge effort to ensure that the educational level does not fall, but he knew that this could not continue like this. That is why they did not give absolute majority to those who made the Lomce, so that it would change, so that there would be a qualitative leap, and this is always done to build by phases. [[The Rumors Continue]] First, repair...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u97	Wait a minute, Mr. Olòriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u98	Thank you very much. Those who believe that there are easy solutions for complex issues - 155 - do not need to listen; there they are. He said that the teacher needs, first of all, to repair this building. And this decree is enough? No, but it's imperative. Without this decree we cannot move forward, we cannot move forward in the sense of rebuilding. I hope that the improved project we have received will enable us - if time, authority and elections do not prevent it - to achieve at least this milestone of rebuilding. We all have a temptation when we are presented with a law, and it is to turn it into a hanger and go hanging themes, have more or less to do with the issue. My group has tried not to do this, it has tried to ensure that this first element of reparation can be made and consolidated. [[Rumors]] Look, by the hand of the cuts, the labyrinth of the Lomce has left us an erial, because distrust prevails. That is why the educational pact could not be achieved, because despite the good words of some spokesmen there was a huge distrust behind it. That's why everyone now goes to the top programs, as if what we had discussed was a temporary one. This is the big problem that we will have in the future, the pact to overcome lost time, but this will not be possible until an election. Let us hope that we can do it with foundations and with reconstruction. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u99	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u100	Victor Hugo said that the one who opens the door of a school closes a prison; there are them, like Junqueras, who open a school in the prison. [[Applauds]] Look, in 1848, when a king, that of Prussia, shut down the Parliament of Frankfurt, there was a song - I don't think it sing - and a stanza said: 'Die gedanken sind frei'. The thought is free. Thoughts are free. Neither 155 nor nothing, thoughts are free! We'll keep going! We'll keep going! We'll resist! And we'll win! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u101	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it's about time. Almost seven years after the imposition - imposed, Mrs Moneo - of Royal Decree 14/2012, of urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the non-university educational field - nothing overwhelming, by the way - teachers and educational institutions will be able to recover the conditions in which they were in before 2012. Mrs. Martin, it's always my turn to start with you. Tell us about the day of the marmot... It is a good thing, when you are systematically bringing the same topics to any educational debate. That's where we find the day of the marmot, because if we don't get it in one way, we get it in another way, but everything is oriented to the obsession with the re-centralization of the educational system, which, unfortunately, is also being plagiarized by the comrades of the People's Party bench. [[applause]] I don't think that's going to benefit anyone at all. Look, we're going to focus on what matters, which is the faculty, the ratio, and the replacements. This bill is finally going to put an end to this 20% increase in the ratio in educational establishments which has meant nothing more and nothing less than that the ratio in children's and primary education has reached thirty pupils per classroom, that in secondary education it has reached thirty-six and the barbarity that in high school it has reached forty-two pupils. This has meant that the ratio in public education has increased by no more than 7.5%, compared to 2.6% in concerted education. By the way, it is no accident either that the ratio has only increased substantially in the public and not so much in the concerted. Mr Sánchez, we agree with you that this measure of the People's Party has put Spain in the position of having the second highest ratio in the whole of the European Union. This measure has run counter to those laws that have pointed out since 2008 in a completely different trend, which is to lower the ratio, but you know that, with the ratios I have just exposed you and with that number of students per classroom, that is absolutely inconceivable right now in the Spanish education system because of the high cost it has. However, we will continue to make progress on other measures, without any doubt. The second measure addressed in this bill is going to be something essential for rural school... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u103	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u104	... and basic for the normal functioning of educational institutions. These are the replacements, of which, by the way, very little has been said this morning. As you well know, teachers used two weeks to be able to be replaced before any appointment or notice of dismissal or absence from the faculty. This is essential in rural schools, because in most schools there are insufficient resources to cover these replacements, and this prevents the normal functioning of the teaching and learning process in our schools. Finally, this bill is going to recover the labor rights of the faculty, seriously damaged by that royal decree imposed by Mr. Wert... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u105	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u106	..., that it was necessary to remember that it imposed a minimum of twenty-five hours of education on the teaching staff of children's and primary education and twenty hours of education on the teaching staff of secondary schools, which made working conditions very difficult, because with more hours of education, with more pupils and pupils per classroom, it is very difficult to attend to the diversity of pupils and the individuality of each of the pupils needed in the education system. Then this decree was imposed, Mrs Moneo. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u107	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u108	It was imposed; it was imposed by Mr. Wert. Now, with this bill, debate is taking place among all parliamentary groups. I believe that there is a substantial difference in the search for consensus and negotiation. Fortunately, the autonomous communities, starting from the next course, will be able to have at their disposal the reduction of teaching hours, the ratio in their centers and also, as I said before, the period of substitutions. Mrs Moneo, we are not going to support the amendment on reducing school hours in private and concerted education. Frankly, we do not understand what it is about, because in the face of the reduction of 20 000 teachers in public education during this period, at the same time, at the same time, at the time of the cuts, curiously, teachers in private or concerted education have increased by 19 000. For something it will be. Of course, I don't think they've suffered the cuts in the same way. However, we do see that it is necessary, Mr Sánchez, to establish in some way a recommendation for an indicative number of teaching hours in the education system, and that is why we have put forward a drafting proposal in a compromise amendment which we hope will be accepted. We also do not understand whether they raise the issue of concerted education, Mrs Moneo, because it is something that their advisers did not address at any time in the debate at the sectoral conference, possibly because they know, and well know, that it affects collective bargaining and that it is the autonomous communities that have full competence to negotiate their own collective agreements. I believe that in this House, in Congress, we cannot and must not enter into this debate, which is the competence of the autonomous communities and of collective bargaining. Now, Mrs Martín, we are no longer surprised that you do not see the importance of these measures for the education system. Once again they demonstrate the absolute lack of knowledge of how educational institutions have been located since the imposition of Royal Decree 14/2012. I recommend that you speak with teachers in the classroom, not simply with trade unions and trade union representatives; I recommend that you visit educational centres; I recommend that you talk with teachers and tell them what the increase in the ratio has meant, the increase in teaching hours in their daily work, which has clearly damaged the support for the most vulnerable students, the attention to those students who have needs for educational support that they have not been able to count on because they have not been able to have sufficient support from the teacher, as the education system must guarantee. But you, once again, to your book, and you have brought back to us today what you have been bringing to us in previous debates: the control of the educational inspection, the nationalization of the process of teacher replacements, once again debated and rejected... They are now asking us for a new law that, as we know, is already in the oven, and they are also asking us for a new law on teachers in which, as the minister has said on previous occasions, they are already working seriously and dealing with it with the teacher who has to be approached. Mr Miquel, we are not going to support the amendment to repeal the thirty-eighth additional provision. We will address it, when it touches, at the time of the law reform that is about to be registered and that we hope that neither one has the capacity to veto in the Congressional Bureau. [[Applauds]] Let's hope so. Today it is up to the faculty to speak, today it is up to recognize the well-deserved sacrifice they have made in the last seven years and, therefore, today this bill has to focus on what is truly essential, on recognizing all the effort that has had to be made over the past seven years in Spanish education, mainly in public education, with teachers being the protagonists of this whole process. After seven years of this imposition, Mrs Moneo, Mrs Martín, I ask you to finally recognize the damage caused to Spanish education, an absolutely irrecoverable damage, a damage which must be repaired, as Mr Olòriz said, a damage which has also seriously affected not the teacher in general, but also the interim teacher, to which you referred, because it must be remembered that in that royal decree access to the Public Service was restricted and that this has meant an increase of 25% in the interinity in the Spanish public system. It is true that it has been reduced minimally, but, of course, it has produced tremendous precariousness and instability, which is precisely the opposite of what is needed in the education system. In short, the greatest number of teaching hours, the increase in the ratio and the serious difficulties for teacher replacements have been and are the factors that seriously affect the teaching-learning process. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We are grateful, as it cannot be otherwise, for the support of the parliamentary groups for this bill, which is aimed at improving the conditions of teachers and the whole educational system. We hope that on this occasion the People's Party will show more responsibility than its Education Councillors did when they took the stand at the sectoral conference. From Citizens, we already know that he is neither expected nor expected and that his support for the faculty is more mouthpieces and much more tangles. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u109	The vote will begin in four minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u110	Before voting begins, we will make an institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies on the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u111	Institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On 10 December 1948, the United Nations General Assembly, meeting in Paris, proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. With the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations established the necessary minimum standards of what constitutes a dignified life. The universal declaration stated that values such as equality, inherent dignity of any human person, justice and the principles of non-discrimination should apply to any person anywhere in the world. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was a milestone in the history of human rights as a common ideal for all peoples and nations. The universal declaration states for the first time that fundamental human rights must be protected throughout the world. Since then, there have been innumerable legal texts reflecting or concreteizing the principles of the declaration, including our Constitution, through article 10.2, which recognizes that the norms relating to fundamental rights and freedoms that our fundamental text recognizes will be interpreted in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international treaties and agreements on the same subjects ratified by Spain. In these seventy years, ladies and gentlemen, the progress made in human rights and non-discrimination are undeniable. However, the human rights situation in which millions of people live is far from the one promised in the universal declaration. On the 70th anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal Declaration and on the 40th anniversary of our Constitution, the Congress of Deputies wishes to reaffirm its commitment to human rights, reaffirming the validity of the Universal Declaration, and to recognize it as a fundamental milestone as a result of dialogue and commitment. Article 1 of the Universal Declaration states that 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, and endowed as they are with reason and conscience must behave fraternally with one another'. This fundamental idea, together with the essential values of the declaration, such as inherent human dignity, non-discrimination, equality and justice, is the central focus of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda and its commitment to leaving no one behind. The Congress of Deputies reaffirms its commitment to the universal declaration, while regretting the setbacks and limited progress in the implementation of human rights in the world, especially in those human rights affecting women and minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies wishes today to publicly acknowledge the commitment and work of all those working for the defence of human rights anywhere in the world, and expresses its condemnation and repudiation of the attacks suffered by human rights defenders, and in a very special way the murders. It reiterates its commitment to work with the values, spirit and every article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on the 70th anniversary of its promulgation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u112	We shall now proceed to the vote. We begin with motions resulting from questioning. We are going to vote, first, on the motion resulting from urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the reversal of hydroelectric leaps in line with territorial vertebration, general interest and public management, energy transition, social justice and legal certainty. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 296 against, 1 abstention, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u113	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policies of the Government in employment and training. [[File number 173/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u114	We are now voting on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on government policies in employment and training. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 160 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u115	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u116	We're going to vote for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 19/2018 of 23 November on payment services and other urgent financial measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 321 plus 3 telematics votes, 324; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u117	It's validated. The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 211 plus 1 telematics vote, 212; 119 plus 2 telematics votes, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u118	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u119	We now vote on the Senate's amendments to the bill amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated version of the Capital Societies Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July, and the 22/2015 Act of 20 July on Audit of Accounts, on non-financial information and diversity, from Royal Decree-Law 18/2017. We shall vote on the amendments separately. Firstly, amendment to Article 1(2) with regard to the first paragraph of Article 49.6 of the Commercial Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 241 against, 88 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u120	It's approved. Amendment to Article 1(2) as regards the fifth indent of Article 49.6(e) of the Trade Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 197 against, 101 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u121	It's approved. Amendment to Article 1, paragraph 2, with regard to the introduction of a new paragraph, penultimate, in Article 49.6 of the Commercial Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 235 against, 93 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u122	It's approved. The remainder of the amendments to Article 1(2). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330; 130; 198; 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u123	They're rejected. Amendment to Article 2(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 249 against, 5 abstentions, 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u124	It's approved. Amendment to Article 2(6) as regards the technical correction introduced in Article 348a(1) of the Consolidated Text of the Capital Companies Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 175 against, 152 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u125	It's approved. The remainder of the amendments to Article 2(6). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 239 against, 88 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u126	They're approved. Amendment to Article 2(7) [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 239 against, 88 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u127	It's approved. Amendment to the first additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 233 against, 87 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u128	It's approved. Amendment to the second additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 165 against, 154 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u129	It's approved. Amendments to transitional provision 2, transitional provision 3 and final provision 1. [[new]] [[new]] Second floor. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 161 against, 166 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u130	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 162 against, 159 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u131	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u132	We now turn to the proposal of the Commission on International Development Cooperation to establish a subcommission to study the updating of the normative framework and the system of international development cooperation. Can it be understood to be approved by consent?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u133	No, Madam President. We call for a vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u134	Then the vote begins. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 324 plus 3 telematics votes, 327; 1 against; 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u135	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u136	We will vote on the subcommission's report for the study and elaboration of water policy proposals, in line with the challenges of climate change. Firstly, the particular votes held by the groups are voted on. Private vote of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, private vote number 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 31 against, 167 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u137	It's rejected. Let us now vote on the particular vote of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, particular vote number 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 132 against 198.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u138	It's rejected. Voting now on the subcommittee's report, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 169 against, 160.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u139	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u140	We are now voting for the direct and single reading of legislative initiatives. Draft law on improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. Firstly, the amendment to the whole of alternative text No. 1, tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, was voted on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 31; against, 167 plus 3 telematics votes, 170; abstentions, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u141	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments to the joint text. Firstly, the amendment to the joint text of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 10 against, 306 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u142	It's rejected. We now vote on Amendment No 15 to the joint text of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador and Mr Alli. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 3 against, 327.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u143	It's rejected. Amendment to the joint text of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, Amendment No 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 82 against, 246 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u144	It's rejected. Amendments to the joint text of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. We shall first vote on Amendment No 6 from this group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 161 against, 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u145	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 31 against, 168 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u146	They're rejected. Amendments to the joint text of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, we are going to vote on Amendment No 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 67 against, 255 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u147	It's rejected. Amendment 17, in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 152 against, 30 abstentions, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u148	It's approved. Amendments to the articles of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Firstly, we voted on Amendment 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 162 against, 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u149	It's rejected. Amendment 19 from the same group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 165 against, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u150	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u151	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the improvement of the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education is voted on as a whole for a single reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 168 plus 3 telematics votes, 171; abstentions, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-13-CD181213.u152	The bill on improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education was approved and would be referred to the Senate. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
