ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue the agenda with the attendance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies at his own request to report on the Government's policy to ensure present and future public pensions, which will be dealt with in conjunction with the request for urgent attendance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the House to report on how it will affect the sustainability factor for pensions, requested by the Joint Parliamentary and Confederal Groups of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this speech by reminding Gabriel, the child of Almería. I would also like to convey all my affection to your parents, Patricia and Angel, to congratulate the Civil Guard on their work and to all those who have contributed to the resolution of this case. Rest in peace, Gabriel. [[Prolonged applause]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear on my own initiative in the Congress of Deputies to report on the government's policy to ensure present and future public pensions, and I also do so to respond to the request of two political groups who are demanding to know how the sustainability factor will affect pensions. No one is hiding that we are dealing with matters of major importance, we are concerned by all Spaniards and we are all concerned in Parliament. This is because of its economic dimension, which is undoubtedly decisive, but above all because of its social significance. We are talking about an essential element of cohesion and solidarity among citizens, values that have been built with the contributions of many generations throughout our recent history. I know that many Spaniards have been able to feel some disquiet in recent days about the future of their pensions. I begin my speech by telling them that there is no reason to do so. All Spaniards, all pensioners today and those who will be in the future must be assured that their Government and all their political representatives are committed to the present and future of that intergenerational pact, which is our pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you of my absolute commitment that this Government will do everything in its power to maintain and revitalize every day the political and social consensus on such a transcendental issue. Consensus and dialogue have inspired the great agreements of our democracy, agreements that have been fruitful, that have benefited so many Spaniards and that have in the Toledo Pact one of their most genuine expressions. Of the so-called Pacts of La Moncloa, the current institutional model of Spanish Social Security emerged forty years ago in 1978, which we have not failed to improve since then and which has made our country an international reference in social protection. That is why today, when we talk about the future of pensions, I think we are dealing with a debate of enormous importance. Firstly, because it affects the Spanish population as a whole; pensions matter to everyone. Of course, they are of interest to those who are pensioners today, but also to those who we intend to be pensioners in the future. This debate is undoubtedly the responsibility of those who receive their benefits every month, but it is also of great interest to those who make them possible with their contributions and taxes. I insist, this is a debate that no one can be alien to, and no one can be patrimonialized because it affects the fundamental values that cohesion our society. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the pension system, we are not talking about abstractions or generalities, but about Spanish pensioners, that is, women and men who have worked their whole lives, who know perfectly well and firsthand what effort, duty and treasure are. The pension is the only means of living in most cases, with all persons reaching retirement age or receiving a widow's, orphan's or other benefit. When we talk about pensions, we talk about people, about their lives, about their needs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know the action of any government can have no nobler purpose than to care for people and more when it comes to those who did not so much put this country in place and today need us to help them. If Spain is now the best version of itself in all its history, it is for the Spaniards who now receive a pension; it has been their daily effort, their constant work that has brought us here. That is why pensions for us are indispensable, because we do not understand a society that does not guarantee sufficient benefits to ensure a life worthy of our elders. They are - I insist - unforgivable. That is why it is good that we are here talking about pensions, because we are talking about all the Spaniards, about their present and future lives and about solidarity between us. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second reason why I think this debate is as necessary as it is important: expenditure on pensions is the largest of the public administrations, so the biggest expenditure that the Spanish make. There is no budget item approaching, even from afar, what we spend on pensions. That also forces us to act responsibly, to live up to what this subject requires of us to maintain the system, to make it sustainable and to improve it as much as possible. For these two reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I thought it appropriate to ask this House for a debate on the actual situation of our public pension system and its prospects for the future. Allow me now, ladies and gentlemen, to make some initial considerations on which I will focus later. The first: When I first introduced myself to the investiture in this House Spain lived an economic crisis that you certainly remember. It was about to lead us to bankruptcy and the consequent rescue of our economy, as happened to some countries in our environment. Then we were forced to reduce the expenditure of public administrations; it was the only alternative to avoid bankruptcy and rescue and we did so. Many reproached me then, but time has taken care to prove that those criticisms were not fair. At that time of absolute emergency, only pensions and unemployment, the only items, remained outside the scope of the reduction in public expenditure. That was my commitment at that distant session in December 2011 and I fulfilled it. Pensions were thawed and raised every year; not what I would have liked, but we managed, in an exceptionally complicated situation, to maintain and raise them and, most importantly, to lay the foundations for securing them in the future. The second: I would like to remind you of my commitment that as long as I am President of the Government, pensions will not be frozen, they will always go up and I will do what I can to improve them, they will go up as much as possible. [[Applauds]] The third: I would like to leave it to myself that pensions are a state policy, and I hope that everyone will share this view. Pensions are not paid by this Government or any other Government, we pay them among all, with contributions and taxes. The State acts only as an administrator and guarantor, ensuring equity, equality and solidarity among citizens. That is why, because of the importance of what we are talking about, because it is a matter that transcends any government, because it affects a value of our coexistence such as solidarity, because, in the end, it is a matter of state, and that is why in this House there is a permanent Commission, that of the Toledo Pact, to develop among all a policy that has to be for all. I am sure that all the members of this House, without any exception, share the wish that Spain can enjoy today and always the best pension system, a system that serves everyone, that provides sufficient means to live in dignity and that is sustainable in the future. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to wish for it, you have to know how to achieve it. Good wishes here, as in so many facets of life, are not enough. The key is to be able to make a policy that allows us to translate them into reality and, consequently, to maintain and improve the system. The key is the ability to carry out an economic policy that creates employment and increases the number of social security contributors. But I'll talk about this later. Ladies and gentlemen, after these preliminary considerations, I think it is good to remember how the pension system works in Spain, the resources we allocate to paying them and what is the evolution of it. Ladies and gentlemen, the expenditure on pensions in 2017 was EUR 139 000 000 637, representing more than 40% of the budget managed by the Government of Spain. Specifically, we devote 29% of total Spanish public expenditure to pensions. I am talking to you about the expenditure of the State, that is, of the General Administration of the State, of the Autonomous Communities and of the municipalities, that is, of the entire Spanish public budget, more than 29 % is dedicated to paying pensions and more than 40 % of the government budget that I chair is dedicated to paying pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no equal or similar item because of its size in the budgets of public administrations, there is no such item. Pensions more than double the next chapter of expenditure, which is health. But with its present magnitude being very important, its projection of the future is no less important; there is no expenditure that experiences an equal increase only by democratic evolution and without the need to make any political decision. I don't want to bore you with figures, but some are very expressive of the phenomenon I'm talking about. Just 10 years ago, public expenditure on pensions was 21.6 of the total public expenditure in Spain; today it is 29. In ten years it has gone from 21.6 of the total Spanish public expenditure to 29%, an increase of more than €48 billion. I will give you a very concrete example. When I came to the government in 2011, the monthly pension payroll was 8100 million euros and the last one paid in February 2018 is 10 100 million euros, i.e. 2 billion more per month of pension spending between 2011 and 2018; 8000 per month in 2011, more than 10 000 per month in 2018. One more fact that is very important: the entry of new pensioners into the system will mean in this year 2018 an increase in the expenditure on pensions of more than 38 billion euros, and that without any revaluation, only the entry of new pensioners means an increase in the expenditure of 38 billion euros; for an idea to be made, more than twice what we intend to pay scholarships, quite more than half of what we dedicate to R+D+i or more than half of what we dedicate to citizen security. That's just annual growth, without making any political decisions. In other words, expenditure on pensions increases automatically at a rate of around 3%. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with this expenditure, we Spaniards pay more than 10 600 000 pensions each year; of these, more than 9.5 million are contributory, more than 454,000 are non-contributory and 634 000 respond to passive class systems. Most of them are retirement pensions, but there are also, as you know very well, widowhood, orphanhood, disability, etc. I would like to add something else, ladies and gentlemen. Our public pension system is also part of something much broader, something that we must be proud of and that we must sustain and preserve, which is our welfare state, which caters to the basic social needs of the population and which they do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many countries in the world, rather in few. I am referring to health, education, protection against unemployment and care for many more people, I repeat, much more than those who receive a pension. As you well know, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 14 million people who receive in Spain every month some kind of pension, benefit or allowance. Well, preserving this model of well-being, which is just as much as preserving the solidarity of our society, requires us all to have a balanced and realistic view of it, requires us to be able to care for both those who receive the benefits and those who pay them. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to pensions, which is what has summoned us here today. We have the fortune to have a good pension system in Spain. Among many other studies, the OECD's 2017 report on pensions, which we have known a few days ago, says so. The report examines the thirty-five OECD countries that are among the most developed and that have the best social security systems. The analysis focuses on the income levels of people over the age of sixty-five. I'll just give them three data. First. In Spain the average pension represents 72.3% of the pre-retirement wage and in the OECD it is 52%, that is, in Spain we are 20 points above the average of the thirty-five most developed countries in the world. Second. In Spain, the income of the population over the age of sixty-five represents 98.8% of the total average income of the population. This figure is well above what is happening in the OECD, which is 87.6%, and above countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom or Belgium. Third. Let us look at the most sensitive aspect of poverty. Overall, in OECD countries, according to the OECD itself, people over the age of sixty-five are more likely to fall into poverty than the population as a whole. However, according to the OECD, Spain is one of the countries with the lowest population over sixty-five years of age in poverty, at levels comparable to Denmark, France or Norway and ahead of Belgium, Austria or Germany. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have a pension system that is effective in caring for our elderly and has been effective even in circumstances as adverse as those we have recently experienced during the crisis. In the economic crisis that we have experienced in Spain, the system has fulfilled its mission and has become an income guarantee instrument for millions of households. It has been useful; moreover, it has been decisive. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in order to continue to preserve this good system for the future, so that the next generations of Spaniards can benefit from it, two things are necessary, in my opinion: firstly, a minimum consensus is needed in order to implement the necessary reforms to adapt to the changes that are constantly taking place in our society, and second and most important if necessary, we must continue to create jobs, more and better jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, addressing a matter of this significance requires a calm debate and a minimum of consensus. This consists of the Toledo Pact, which today needs a new impetus, but not a rectification. I insist on a new impulse, but not a rectification, because the importance of the pact and its revitalization is precisely not to start again from scratch. In short, what I propose to you is to continue to make progress on what has already been built and not to reverse any reforms that have been made throughout our democracy, in none, and when I say in none I mean those of 2013, those of 2011 and all those that have been made in Spain in recent years. [[Applauds]] The Toledo Pact has been a reassuring instrument, because in general terms it has been able to force the best agreements to safeguard the pension system, modernise it and adapt it to changes in Spanish society. We must therefore preserve it, seek maximum consensus and try to keep it out of the partisan debate. This, ladies and gentlemen, will really give our pensioners peace of mind, who deserve to enjoy without fear this stage of their lives. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should commit ourselves to preserving the Toledo Pact, but knowing that that is not enough. The Toledo Pact is not enough, more is needed. In other words, much more is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential - this is well understood - to have the resources necessary to maintain and improve the system. Where's the secret? The only thing that really guarantees the payment of today's and tomorrow's pensions: in employment. Pensions are now secure because this Government has strengthened the momentum behind them, which is employment, their source of funding. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know very well, in Spain we have experienced an economic crisis as we have never known before. You also know that 3,800,000 jobs were lost in this crisis, and you also know that the state's revenues fell by €70 billion - which is said to be soon - in just two years. Well, this is the loss of employment and the resulting loss of collection, which has really put pensions at risk. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 for each new pensioner - one - entering the system, three people stopped contributing to Social Security. Today the situation has been reversed: for each new pensioner who enters the system, six new jobs are created. This is the secret, and there is no more, ladies and gentlemen. Pensions have been sustained for two reasons: first, because we have avoided a rescue of the Spanish economy that would have led us to its drastic reduction; this, as you know, has happened in other countries of our environment that you all have in your mind, in some cases with reductions of up to 40%. Secondly, our pension system is here because we have been able to turn the situation of our economy around and start growing and creating jobs. [[Applauds]] Even in such a difficult situation - you know that it was difficult - as we have experienced, with a massive loss of employment and collection, we have been able - not the Government, the Spaniards - not to reduce pensions, not to freeze them and we have been able to raise them; little, much less than we would have liked, but we have been able to raise them. And one wonders: has this been achieved because the number of pensions we pay has been reduced? No, ladies and gentlemen, quite the contrary: the number of pensions has grown, and very much. Now there are 742,000 who in 2011 reach 10,600,000, and we have attended to all, those who were and the new, from the first to the last. Ladies and gentlemen, have we kept our pensions frozen in order to facilitate payments? Not at all, as I have reminded you before, we have raised them without exception with the resources provided by the system. Spain has not had to choose, like others, between economic sustainability, sufficient benefits and coverage of the system as a whole. We have been able to move forward and improve on the three objectives, and we have been able to do so because we have always been guided by prudence and responsibility. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this system is not only defended by words, it is defended by realism, by reflection, by numbers and also - I must say - by avoiding any kind of demagogy. And defending it without demagogy means thinking about solutions that not only look to the immediate, but that serve the sustainability of the model in the medium term. To this end, the first objective we cannot avoid is job creation: the more and better jobs, the more and the better pensions. That is why our economic policy must be responsible. In a system of distribution and contribution such as ours is an essential factor. Our second responsibility is to act to address demographic factors. That path was already initiated by the Socialist Party in 2011, and not only did we not reverse the reform, but we continued in that direction in 2013: the same path and the same direction that all countries that want to preserve and protect their pension systems for the future are going through. Everyone is reforming - or thinking about how to do so - their pension systems to take into account that we live longer and that in some cases fewer children are born. That is the sustainability factor: meeting our responsibilities to continue paying pensions to our children. It means talking about guarantee, talking about the future, talking about life expectancy and a pact between present and future generations. [[Applauds]] Sustainability is nothing but solidarity in the future with those who are being supportive in the present. Or do any of you think it reasonable to require young Spaniards to contribute to today's pensions without being able to guarantee theirs in the future? The answer to this reflection is precisely what is called the sustainability factor. It ensures that the value of the pension received throughout the life of a new pensioner who enters the system in a few years' time, and who will have a higher life expectancy, is equivalent to the pensioner who retires today. It responds, as I say, to an intergenerational pact. Ladies and gentlemen, defending our pension system without demagoguery also means acting with equity, providing formulas that consider the right balance between the interests of all groups in need of State protection and that are: young people, to whom the formation of the twenty-first century requires; long-term unemployed, who have to acquire new skills to return to work; women, who have to overcome the difficulties that inequalities present to them in reconciling their personal and working lives - a conciliation which, of course, also concerns men -; dependent people who suffer from disabilities, because they and their families need us to be there for them. Spain is a country of solidarity and justice, it is with everyone and it will continue to be so. It is solidarity that must always bear in mind that resources are limited, because they are, and that it is socially more just that which economically is more efficient. Having said all this, ladies and gentlemen, we have reason to be reasonably optimistic. We have strong reasons to trust that, if a good economic policy is maintained that promotes the creation of more and better jobs, and if the decisions taken are not reversed, we will soon regain the balance of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, today, thanks to the intense job creation, for the first time since 2008 contributions have increased above expenditure last year. I insist: for the first time since 2008 contributions have grown above expenditure, 5.3%, above the increase in pension expenditure, 3%. In addition, over the past three years, 2015, 2016 and 2017, more than 5 jobs have been created for each new pensioner, and this, as I told you before, is key to ensuring the future sustainability of pensions. All this has been possible thanks to an economic policy which, as you know, has been based essentially on two pillars: fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. Thanks in part to this policy we not only grow and create jobs at the head of Europe, above the euro area or Germany, France or Italy, but we do so competitively, without the external deficit that has traditionally ended - here is the recent economic history - with our growth. 2017 is the fourth consecutive year of growth, job creation and external surplus, a combination of three elements that in our model, ladies and gentlemen, had never been given; simply never. During this parliamentary term, the adoption of the 2017 General State Budgets has been very important because it has created an environment of stability and confidence in economic operators, a key factor in driving economic recovery and job creation. The 2017 budgets will continue to fulfil this function until new ones can be approved as soon as possible. This, moreover, has been very well valued and seen as an exercise of responsibility from outside Spain. Continuing this way is the key for our pensions to continue to be paid and to be better in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we must preserve the reforms that have been so successful for the well-being and opportunities of our citizens, and we will do so by fulfilling the Spanish mandate and our commitment to Europe. We would like to do so with the consensus of all, the better. With that will we will approve, at the end of this month, the 2018 General State Budgets in the Council of Ministers and bring them to this House. It is in the context of these budgets that we can talk about possible improvements for the well-being of the Spaniards, also in the area of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget debate offers us a magnificent opportunity to discuss what we are going to devote to the budgetary space we are gaining from the best economic situation. I offer you to work from now on to reach an agreement throughout the 2018 budget process, because it is in that debate that we must assess what decisions we want to make on tax revenue and what decisions we want to make on social expenditure, and we must do so with great consideration that we cannot spend what we do not have, because that is what has sunk our country, and that we are obliged to fulfil our European commitments on public deficit, because that is what saved our country. [[Applauds]] For my part, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell you that in the draft budgets I will be proposing to concentrate tax aid on the IRPF for pensioners and families, and I will also be proposing an improvement in minimum and widow's pensions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this additional effort can do so now that the economic situation is improving, but it must be a responsible effort, which means respecting the general revaluation procedure, which is being a decisive element in ensuring the viability of the system for pensioners, for all, for those of today and for new generations. Let us not forget that this is our greatest obligation and responsibility to our country. In any case, as I said before, the sustainability of our pension system and the amount of it depend on employment, on many people working and doing so in increasingly better jobs; only if more people are contributing can more and better pensions be paid. Therefore, my priority is to do everything possible to keep growing and to create increasingly stable and better paid jobs. That is why we must persevere in an agenda of reforms that leads us to grow, to improve productivity, to diversify our economy and to make it increasingly able to adapt to a changing and highly competitive environment. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many areas where we have to work, I insist, to better grow and to gain employment and, consequently, to maintain and improve the pension system and in general the whole of social welfare. I will cite some of the areas that I believe to be of priority. First, financial stability. Maintaining sound and prudent public accounts is a necessary condition for continuing to generate confidence and growth. Ladies and gentlemen, we know this from our own experience - I insist, from our own experience -. Second, digitization. Digital transformation is a real technological revolution that forces us to adapt to a new reality, but it also offers new opportunities that we must take advantage of; the competitiveness of our economy depends on it, and we must act in many areas, and that is what my Government is doing. For example, deployment of high-capacity networks; digital transformation of our industry and services; R & D & i actions, which are crucial in boosting new digital technologies; actions aimed at improving the functioning of markets by advancing the elimination of administrative barriers; continuing to support entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship; improving active employment policies; continuing to promote the internationalization of our companies, which is a crucial and crucial issue, in order to bring us into a situation of economic recovery and, of course, to continue to modernise public administrations. And fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, actions in the field of education and training to make all the previous improvements a tangible reality. We need to ensure quality and tailored training so that citizens can compete with advantage in the global world and workers can increase their productivity and therefore their wages. If we persevere with more reforms in all these areas and without mistakes that could jeopardize our competitiveness, we will be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a more globalized and changing world. Only in this way will we be able not to stay behind, only in this way will we be able to make further progress, to end the reversal of the consequences of an unprecedented economic crisis and to ensure the permanence of our welfare State and our pensions. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you how I think. We have a system that deserves our trust and that of the pensioners, a system that has survived - which is said to be soon - the loss of more than 3 million contributors while the number of pensioners increased by 1 million without at any time having stopped paying the pensions, and that well deserves our trust and that of the pensioners. Today more pensions are paid than ever before, higher because those who are entering the system have contributed more time, with more resources and for longer, given the estimated life expectancy that fortunately we have in Spain. Our goal is to continue to be so in the future, it is a system that is gradually recovering the financial balance - it has not yet recovered it, but it is recovering it in a climate of great job creation - and it offers the best guarantees to correct the deficit and gain flexibility in its decisions, for example by improving lower pensions. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards can be calm because today there is no danger with regard to the pension system. [[Applauds]] The only thing that can threaten our pensions is to return to the wrong policies, to which they generate unemployment, and what can threaten the peace of the pensioners is that we fall into the temptation to include pensions in the field of the partisan struggle. These are the only two dangers. The more we care about the welfare of pensioners, the more we will try to assure them of the strength that comes from the agreement. The more we care about the solvency, stability and future of our system, the more we need to care about the consensus and unity that we form in this House. To these reflections responds the Toledo Pact, which was born with the deliberate purpose of protecting everyone's pension system from the choices of some. We have not chosen to be supportive, but rather to make our solidarity effective. We do not choose it to avoid the debate, or to hide the differences, but because it is the only ground in which confrontation, far from harming, helps us. If we really want principles such as solidarity, responsibility and sustainability to illuminate and make sense of the Spanish pension system, we are proclaiming the need for the agreement. The pact is sustained by this willingness to serve effectively, consistently and responsibly a good that is of everyone and on which the lives of millions of Spaniards depend, today and tomorrow. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a party policy or a government policy, but about a state policy because it protects the general interests of the nation. It must be a state policy because it must be projected over time, beyond what a government can last, beyond what a legislature lasts and far beyond successive generations of Spaniards. It must be a State policy because we must design it by agreement of the various political groups and at the service of all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it must be a state policy because our pension system is part of that nation project that we all serve and assures us that Spain, which is already admirable for so many things, is also part of the treatment it guarantees for its elders. Spanish pensioners, who are always an example of responsibility and solidarity, do not deserve frivolous attitudes. They are the first to want a better country, with jobs for their children and opportunities for their grandchildren. They deserve respect and dignity, and no one should use them in any debate or ambition for the simple reason that they have already given everything for their country. Nothing more, Madam President, and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u4	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of my parliamentary group we also want to show our solidarity with the family of the child Gabriel, and with the families of all those missing persons who are currently having a bad time because their loved ones do not show up. Having said that, Mr Rajoy, the first thing I have to say is that you do not lie to the citizens. You don't show up here voluntarily. You come here today forced, and you are forced by the pressure of the street, by the pressure of the pensioners, by the pressure of the parliamentary groups that had asked for your appearance. It's coming for an election calculation. You have seen that there are 9 million pensioners and you say: if I do not go at the request of what I am asked to do, look at what role I play. But, of course, you are not credible, and you are not credible because in what is going on here, in this plenary, my group has brought 24 initiatives and to no initiative on the subject of pensions you have given an answer. [[Applauds]] In the Toledo Pact, Mr Rajoy, no proposal has been made. The Toledo Pact, why does it sound like citizens? For her president, Mrs Villalobos, the only thing she does is insult the pensioners. [[Rumors and Protests]] Even yesterday, when there was a non-law proposal to reaffirm, to revalue the Toledo Pact, his group voted against. [[Applauds]] You come here, Mr. Rajoy, in a format that favors you, favors you. Go to Rule 203 of the Rules of Procedure to have unlimited time! of intervention while the other groups have only ten minutes. Furthermore, it comes without proposing any communication so that we can vote on the proposals. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u5	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u6	Yes, Mr Rajoy, you come, you read and you do not want anything to be voted on. Look, I'd tell you that it's good enough of complacent speeches like yours, of those speeches that elude what's going on in the street; what they're living, the reality of what the 9 million pensioners are living. Stop reading so much data and explain the reality!, the reality that is living the street. We are a little tired, we are a little tired because this country is growing at 3.1%, but not by its policies, Mr Rajoy, it is growing by the effort of the citizens of this country. [[rumors and protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u8	Look, Mr. Rajoy, you imposed measures by decree-law in 2012. [[Applauds]] You have rescued the banks with the effort of all Spaniards! : it is 77 billion that have been used in rescuing banks, of which we are only going to recover 19%. [[Applauds]] - Just-- I would also tell you - and then I will tell you about your labor reform - to go to the Bank of Spain's 2016 reports when they talk about exogenous factors, when they talk about monetary policy, when they talk about the fall in oil prices, so please, Mr Rajoy, don't put on medals. Economic growth is thanks to the efforts of all Spaniards, of pensioners as well. [[Applauds]] What's going on? What has your economic growth model been? What's your growth model? The one that falls on the shoulders of the Spanish citizens, on the shoulders of the pensioners, because it is a model that is based on inequality, only for those who have more. You are creating a Spain and a society based on inequality. You have made a tax reform for the 10% that you have most, and in addition, in case it was little, you have made a tax amnesty of 40 billion that even the Constitutional Court has had to cancel for reasons of substance and form. What was I gonna tell him? You tell me about your job reform. I'm going to talk to you about that labor reform you're so proud of. It is an employment reform that has brought precariousness into employment, which has brought devaluation in wages, and what it does is that, although we now have the same number of contributors as in 2011, average contributions per worker are much lower. And you know what? People on the street need to know that there are 1.5 million people who work and live below the minimum wage, that there are 3 million people who work with their labour reform and who charge less than 1000 euros; they also need to know that there is a 23% wage gap for women - not my group says, the INE says - and they need to know that two thirds of part-time contracts are carried out by women as a result of which you have not made reconciliation and co-responsibility policies. [[Applauds]] You arrived in 2011 giving lessons and saying - there are the hemerotecs, those damn hemerotecs - that you were not going to cut the pension system. .. [[Laughs.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u10	...that was going to improve.. [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u12	...that was going to improve power.. [[rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u13	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u14	Don't get nervous. You guys, calm down, but leave me, leave me because you won't like what you're gonna hear. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u16	You came here saying that the purchasing power of pensions would not be cut. And you know what? Do you know what situation we're in right now, and what you haven't said? There is a structural deficit in social security, a structural deficit, Mr Rajoy, of 1.6% of gross domestic product in 2017, that is, 18 billion deficits, and to that you add - in those five years of your government - 80 billion deficits. And what have you done? What have you done? To go to that Social Security Reserve Fund, which was left to him by the last socialist Government. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] That reserve fund we left you with €66 billion. Look, at the moment you have raised 74 billion; there are 8 billion, but those 8 billion are because the state has had to lend in the 2017 budgets a loan to that Reserve Fund so badly-denominated by you and that you have simply squandered. [[Risa.-Protests.-Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u17	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u18	What have you done to this structural deficit? What have you done with your policies? Just cut, cut pensions. He did it in 2012. You say that the socialist government froze the pensions, but you, in the Decree-Law of 2012, took away the supplement to equalize and recover those expenses of purchasing power. In 2012. [[Applauds]] In 2013, your reforms, taken only by you: a revaluation rate, to which I will refer, and a sustainability factor that will make pensions that start in 2019 even lower for pensioners who join our pension system. And I'll tell you what the street understands, the street doesn't understand as much data as you say. For five years, pensions have increased by 0.25 % and this year, the consumer price index is going to rise by around 2 %. The lowest pensions are going to rise 2 euros, they are going to rise 2 euros monthly. Do you think the pensioners in this country deserve this? Do you really believe that? Do you believe that with these increases - which are not going to face the purchasing power - they are going to acquire private pension funds? [[Applauds]] Don't fool us. Don't fool the pensioners of this country! Look, Airef says it clearly, as we follow in 2023, what is going to happen is that the loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners of this country, of the pensioners of this country is 11,23%. Add the medicine, add the pharmaceutical co-op. Yeah, yeah, they have to pay him out of his pocket. [[Applauds]] And I don't tell you anything anymore, Mr Rajoy, about those two or three euros when we talk about women. The pension gap for women is 38%. Is that okay with you? 38 %. [[Applauds]] And you come here to talk about how you're going to raise widow's pensions. Please respect the widows of this country, who have not increased the regulatory base for six years. [[Applauds]] Respect, please, the widows of this country! Look, the socialists are the real parents of the public pension system and we think it's viable, but what can't be is what you're doing. They are only making pensioners bear that structural deficit that you have not been able to deal with. My group therefore calls for short-term measures, and by 2018, for pensions to be revalued in line with the consumer price index, which eliminates the sustainability factor. We must rationalise expenditure, you go to the General Budgets of the State to deal with certain expenditure which is being charged to the Social Security Reserve Fund, flat rates, reduction of contributions in active employment policies, and above all not charge pensioners exclusively the burden of the crisis. You should be ashamed that with a monthly increase of 2 euros per month you come here to brag and make the speech you have made! Make an appropriate income policy, and do so because if not from the year 2023 when the cohorts - those names that may not sound - of the baby boom still the situation will be more serious. You were talking about labor reform. Of course, labour reform is essential, because as long as we have that labour reform that you have put in place, that your Government has put in place that it is a shame for those workers, it is clear that through contributions the structural deficit of the Social Security Reserve Fund, to which you have contributed, will not be rebalanced. [[Applauds]] Therefore repeal the labour reform, go to the income pact that the Socialists have proposed to you. It cannot be that devaluation of wages and that there are wages only for the richest. Mr Rajoy, there will have to be extraordinary measures to tackle this situation until we can deal with the structural deficit through contributions. You - I tell you with sincerity and pain - are taking the Toledo Pact in this parliamentary term. [[Rumors]] They have been unable to make any proposals. [[Applauds]] So I ask you, in this limited space of time that you give me, to do the favor of revaluing pensions according to the cost-of-living index, to repeal the sustainability factor and to address the need for extraordinary income. We make a number of proposals to discuss in the Toledo Pact: a tax on banking that all the citizens of this country have...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u19	Mrs. Robles, you've exceeded your time too much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u20	I'm finishing up, Madam President. I'm finishing up. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u21	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u22	I'm finishing up. To address the extraordinary taxes we ask of you, a tax on banking, a tax on financial transactions, and above all to make an employment policy, a policy that does not devalue wages, and please by 2018 the pensioners of this country cannot be in the situation in which they are, losing their purchasing power. Tell those people to make a private pension fund. Please, a little more respect for the citizenship of this country. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u23	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. And please, ladies and gentlemen, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u24	I join Gabriel's memory and condolences to his parents and family. Let's all get up with Sunflowers. [[Applauds]] First of all, thanks to the colleagues of my Confederal Group, to all the technical and professional teams whose work has served to introduce three laws to raise pensions which unfortunately have been vetoed by the Government so that they cannot be discussed and voted here. These laws point to the path of a State policy, a security policy and a sensible policy. Mr President of the Government, there are issues on which it is perfectly reasonable and logical for us to discuss in this House. There are issues on which it is perfectly reasonable and logical that there has been debate from this parliamentary rostrum. Democracy consists in that, where the opposition and the Government have differences on certain issues. But, Mr President of the Government, there are issues that must be guarantees in democracy, issues on which it is not reasonable to discuss, on which it is not reasonable to have meetings in this democratic forum. The citizens of this country know that there are issues that cannot be called into question: the inviolability of the home, for example, or that there are free and competitive elections every four years. Mr President of the Government, pensions, as the Constitution points out, should be a guaranteed issue, an issue that does not depend on the rule of the blue party or the purple party. [[Applauds]] We are talking nothing but about the basis of sustainability of our democratic system, an agreement between generations, an agreement that has to do with security. It is indecent, Mr President of the Government, that the Spanish citizens have been told from their bench to make a private pension plan. One of the fundamental foundations of democracy is that the State must guarantee decent pensions for all citizens, not because we say so, because the Spanish Constitution says so. [[Applauds]] Today I just want to give you some official data, some objective data on the pension situation, and I would also like to make some proposals to you. The first of them is to stop vetoing. The seat of popular sovereignty is this Parliament. They allow this Parliament to discuss and vote on the opposition's proposals. I hope that Citizens will stop supporting the vetoes that are stealing the democratic legitimacy of this Parliament on the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Objective data: more than five million pensioners do not charge 800 euros of pension; objective data: pensions have lost from 2010 to 2017 - you have ruled in six of these seven years - 432 euros of purchasing power. There is a definitive figure for 2017. Do you know how much the bill for the light has gone up? Ten percent. Do you think it is decent that when the light rises by 10% pensions rise by 0.25%? [[Applauds]] Let's talk about women who have to get a pension. More than two million women live with a contributory pension of less than 650 euros. There is a gender gap of 34% in contributory pensions between men and women. I ask you, Mr President, have women in this country worked less than men in order not to be entitled to a pension? 71% of pensioners who receive between 600 and 650 euros of pension are women. Now we go to the most dramatic data, non-contributory pensions: 8 out of 10 non-contributory pensioners are women. Do you know how much non-contributory pension is in Spain? Between EUR 92 and EUR 370 per month, when the poverty threshold is set at EUR 573. Do you think you can live decently by charging between 92 and 370 euros? I don't. Comply with the Constitution, Mr. President. [[Applauds]] It's very fashionable lately to talk about security. This is the security that really affects the Spaniards; the security of a state is measured by the quality of their pensions and we are not inventing the lack of trust of the people. An institution as official as the Centre for Sociological Research, in its barometer of February, says that the Spanish concern for pensions is the highest in the last thirty years. You cannot be deaf to a concern that is not an ideological concern, it is a country concern. The Spanish are concerned about the sustainability of democracy, which is pensions, and you as a government are obliged to give an answer that is in accordance with the Constitution. [[Applauds]] What can be done? You basically say: there's no money, there's no money to do something different than what we're doing. It's not true, there's an outrageous fact. You have spent EUR 2 billion from the Spanish to rescue the motorways. Precisely the money that would have cost to revalue this year's pensions. Of course there's money! [[Applauds]] I propose to you, Mr President, a series of very sensible measures, state measures to finance the pension system. You said one thing that's true. He said: the pension system depends on the labour market, on better quality of social contributions better quality of pensions. So why do you not accept the proposal that we make to raise the interprofessional minimum wage simply to 950 euros? Why do they veto this proposal, if it is probably the most reasonable thing to improve the quality of employment? Why do they not repeal the last two labour reforms, which have basically served to precarious the labour market and to increase temporaryity? Improving the quality of employment is the opposite of what their labour reforms have done; what we are proposing is a state policy, not a party policy. [[Applauds]] Second measure: tax solidarity measures. You have spent EUR 60 billion on rescuing banks with public money; 8 out of every 10 euros dedicated to saving financial institutions have been lost, and you know as I do that Spain is 7 points away from the European Union under fiscal pressure. We raise a solidarity tax on the bank. In Spain the belt has to be fastened not only the workers, the self-employed and the small business, but also the ones above. It is shameful that profit banks in this country are taxing 9%. Pensioners, self-employed, workers do not know what it is to tax 9%. Would it not be sensible, as in other European countries, for banks to pay the taxes they have to pay? Third measure: suspending the deductions to private pension schemes at once. Do you know what would be achieved by that? Saving EUR 2 billion, which - by chance! - is exactly what it would have cost this year to update pensions at the rate set by the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Fourth - very sensible - proposal: to end once and for all the impoverishment factor. Some fools have called the impoverishment factor sustainability factor. It was an old proposal of a socialist government, but they have already rectified, rectify you too and let us avoid that on 1 January 2019 the pensions in Spain will be further impoverished. What I am proposing to you, Mr President, is not ideological. When we talk about pensions, we talk about social security, we talk about social peace and we talk about order. Do not break social peace and order and raise pensions as a mark, demands and determines a Constitution that is binding on everyone. Mr. President, I'm asking for a little empathy. Think of the Spaniards and Spaniards who have killed themselves to work, and who simply deserve a decent pension. Today this debate is being followed by widows, self-employed, farmers, Spaniards and Spaniards who have done nothing but work in their lives. These people, Mr President, do not deserve what you are doing with pensions. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, put to the ground. Applause from Mr Turrion to the members of his parliamentary group and to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u26	Thank you, President. I join the words of the other speakers, and I am left with the life lesson that Angel and Patricia, his parents, have given us, and with the image of these two civilian guards hugging. Thank you. [[Applauds]] Today's debate revolves around a constitutional guarantee. We are not here today because we simply want to debate, we are not here because some parties want to make this a party rather than a state debate. We are here today because article 50 of the Constitution obliges all legislators in this country to comply with that article. That article states that there must be decent pensions, it talks about periodically revaluing or updating such pensions, and therefore all the groups in this House - except those who do not respect the Constitution or want to change that article - we should agree that this is a matter of State, in which the governing party always has to guarantee such decent pensions and that periodic update. That Constitution some despise it, Constitution which certainly PP and PSOE use legitimately through its Article 134 to ask for budgetary guarantees, which the PSOE calls vetoes and is the same as Mr Zapatero did with Mr Rajoy, through that Article 134 of the Constitution, and it is the same as Mr Rajoy has done with the proposals of the PSOE, and I propose to you that instead of saying one thing the opposition and another the Government and vetoing the debates permanently, we address them. Let us therefore take this debate seriously. Another of the right issues in this House, when only bipartisanism existed many years ago, was the agreement reached in 1995 on the Toledo Pact, in which it was ensured that this debate would not be used electorally or politically. We were not at that time, but it seems to us a good thing that those groups decided at that time to separate this debate from the electoral or party issues, because with those who have made an effort all their lives working they do not play, because with the heroes of this economic crisis, the pensioners, who have helped their grandchildren, have paid the floor to their children and kept their families with their pension, we cannot fall into the mistake of bringing this to a debate of red and blue or blue and red. [[Applauds]] That is why the first thing I want to ask for is respect and dignity for those pensioners who, I repeat, are the heroes of this country, those who have worked, those who have raised this country, those who have made an effort, those who have kept their families and therefore those who owe them decent pensions. Therefore, the pension model is neither questionable nor discussed, nor is it questionable that it should be updated periodically; all we can discuss is what needs to be done to ensure it in the future. Let me tell you that neither the president of the government nor the rest of the groups - and we've had almost an hour and a half of debate - have proposed a solution for the future, it's all been short-term 'and you more' debates, and you did that and I did the other'... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u27	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u28	Repealing laws or asking for pensions is very easy, the difficult thing is to reform them and make them sustainable. That's what anyone does, you don't have to be a congressman or a legislator. The obligation of a legislator is not to propose populist things; the will of a legislator must be to guarantee this system in the future. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous that we only have ten minutes and we'll try to take advantage of them. They have therefore not made a single proposal. The government tells us that everything is going well and, Mr Rajoy, I agree that the pension system is not questionable, I agree that we have to be serious and keep the economy, I agree that we have to guarantee employment, but, Mr Rajoy, I will also tell you what I do not agree with: in triumphalism, in the euphoria that you maintain when with you, in your mandate, you like it or not, 9 out of 10 euros of the pension pool have disappeared; 9 out of 10 euros, and when you disappear 9 out of 10 euros of the pension pool, Mr Rajoy, we have a problem and we can do two things: deny it and just go to a short-term debate or show it and talk about solutions together. Citizens, Mr Rajoy, you are going to help this government and this House if you are brave and we are talking about reforms of the future; if we are simply going to fight to raise 1 euro or 5 euros or to play with the dignity of pensioners do not count on us; if we are going to talk about reforms of the future, of quality employment, of fighting against precariousness, of growing the birth rate of our country, which is one of the lowest in Europe, if we are talking about that we are willing, because we want to govern in the future in this country and because we want a serious and rigorous debate of the pensions of this country. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, we are going to the diagnosis, which we do not share. You have said that everything is going well, the hut is being emptied, the Airef tells us, as was recalled here, that in 2023 we will have a bigger problem, but you, if I may say so, have a contradictory speech in something: you say that everything is going well, but you warn us that every year we need EUR 4 billion more. So if everything goes well and there's less and less money in the hut, one of two: either it doesn't go so well or something has happened with the hut and they've spent it on something else. Mrs. Robles, you've been talking about bank bailouts. You are absolutely right, because with you and the People's Party, Caixa Catalunya, Bankia, Caixa Galicia, you have all been rescued with public money, with you. [[Applauds]] You have been a ruling party, you have ruled for twenty years and you cannot come up with the same speech as Podemos, Mrs Robles. It seems that you have never ruled, it seems that you have not rescued banks, it seems that you have not had to veto proposals for re-evaluation, and I would ask the PSOE not to be able to manage, not to be nervous about polls or Podemos, but to be a state party, a government party, not a powered and drifting party. [[Protests]] Calm down, don't insult, if it's a parliamentary debate, calm down. Therefore, what I am asking you here is commitment to the future, Mr Rajoy. If you want to talk about the future you will count on our support; if you want to talk about electoral marketing alone... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u30	If we talk about the future, as I told you, he'll count on us. I will give you two current data: 9 out of 10 jobs in Spain are precarious, Mr Rajoy, and I do not like that we do triumphalism when there are many people who, after a month of work, throw you out of work. If you have lowered the Social Security box it is because to a large extent the employment is of poor quality, and without decent employment there are no decent pensions - neither must you be Sherlock Holmes to know it - and I think that should be acknowledged in this House. Without decent employment there are no decent pensions. You fall into triumphalism, conformism, not making reforms, so I ask the government to accept that we debate the proposal to combat the precariousness that Citizens have raised, that we give aid to companies that generate stability and quality employment. If we create quality jobs, we will raise contributions and we will be able to pay pensions; if we do not generate quality jobs, all this is a lie discussion, it is a false discussion, because we all know that we have to tell the people the truth and that this model is not sustainable if we do not create quality jobs. So the main fixation of this House should be to look at the new working model of the future and think about how to increase birth. I put proposals on the table; proposals that are also counted and budgeted, now that Mr Montoro is here. We have a proposal to lower the IRPF precisely to those who have less. I know that some groups don't like this, but I believe in it. I believe that those who have less have to pay less or do not have to pay taxes; I believe that the pensioner who does not arrive at the end of the month cannot pay IRPF, and in Spain are paying IRPF people who do not arrive at the end of the month and who have spent their whole life contributing and working, and there is no right. [[applause]] Therefore, a citizen's demand to support the budgets, Mr Rajoy - and you know it - is that we lower the IRPF to the incomes of between EUR 12 000 and EUR 17 000, which means between EUR 33 and 60 in the pocket of 25% of pensioners. Therefore, without demagoguery, without populism, without electoral debates or marketing with pensioners, a fiscal policy can be made that leaves their money in their pocket. We're not gonna give them anything, we're gonna leave what's theirs in their pocket. Therefore, the first proposal in the short term: a decrease in the IRPF for income from EUR 12 000 to EUR 17 000. This benefits 22% of pensioners in this country. Second step: birth. Let's talk about the long term. We know that this does not come tomorrow, that increasing birth is not immediate for obvious reasons, but we must start now, Mr Rajoy. In the last budgets we ask you for two more weeks of paternity permits and one more week in the 2018 budgets. And another very important thing, that children's education from zero to three years has a tax deduction for families who want to have children and cannot, because I tell you one thing, without children there is no country that has a future. If we don't bet on birth and those young families to have children, this country has no future. Mr Rajoy, I promised in your speech that the pensions would always be raised. Well, you who always give advice sure you also admit advice from those who want pensions to work in this country. In 2011 he promised that he would raise pensions and couldn't do it, so I would tell him not to promise again - for fear of what the POSE or Podemos say - things that he later doesn't, because it's worse. [[shows a document]] Mr. Rajoy, let's be careful. We want to reform the system and guarantee future pensions, but that of promising things, as you did in 2011, and not fulfilling them frustrates many pensioners. The debate today is not to promise what can or cannot be paid for with their money, as you have rightly said, but how to guarantee such reforms in the future. Therefore, it fights against precariousness and unemployment. The problems must be admitted, Mr Rajoy; triumphalism is not a good solution. It is much better to admit the problems that Spain has, that can be fixed. And secondly, the future. Christmas, families, support, so that in the future we have more young people paying pensions so that their grandparents can retire without their grandparents having to keep them. Mr Rajoy, I agree that pensions must be dignified and must be updated, they must be guaranteed, but I also say one thing to you. We have talked little or nothing about the current pensions that you are contributing to today. He who works today must also be assured that pensions will be paid in the future. I don't want grandparents having to support their grandchildren and children because they don't have a job. I don't want grandparents to have to contribute part of their pension to support precarious jobs for their grandchildren or children. I want those grandparents to live decently with their pension after the effort they have made, and their children and grandchildren to have a good salary and a future. The model of Citizens is therefore good jobs, quality in employment, future, birth and reforms, and not marketing with the feelings of so many people. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, I propose that in the short term we remove those taxes that do not come to the end of the month, that in the medium term we make reforms such as the reform against job insecurity proposed by Citizens - we are ready to discuss it with the other groups - to have a stable contract, to have the Austrian backpack and to offer a bonus to companies that contract in a stable way, and in the long term I propose measures from now on, such as kindergartens or paternity permits, so that we have more children and therefore more workers in Social Security in the future. They are sustainable proposals, which can be made and also some not only cost money, but generate new revenue. I ask the Government that, instead of falling into immobilism, conformism or even euphoria, we be more realistic and connect with much of the citizenry, which believes that pensions must be dignified. Finally, Mr Rajoy, this is the letter the Government sent to the pensioners. [[shows a document]] I tell you one thing, in the tone I am using: triumphalism remains and even sometimes offends. To tell a pensioner to raise a euro and the government to spend more money on sending the letter than in the euro that raises it is not a good way to content or in this case to respect the dignity of the pensioners. Therefore less euphoria and less letters and more reforms and more future, because Spain, Mr Rajoy, especially needs a future project. It does not need to debate only today, but also tomorrow, because tomorrow and the future is the place where our children and all of us will live. So I suggest that we reach agreements with data, with numbers, but above all with reforms that guarantee the future. Populism is not the solution, Mr Rajoy, but certainly conformism, lack of future and immobilism do not guarantee it either. I prefer that we have a project for Spain and that they have Citizens to make reforms and guarantee pensions. Don't count on us to throw the dishes at your head and end up in the 'and you more'. [[Rumors]] The Spaniards who are watching us today expect solutions, respect and above all dignity for all those pensioners who have sustained and endured this crisis. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u31	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. We join in the condolences for the death of the child Gabriel. A strong hug to your parents and family. Mr Rajoy, you have been mistreating the working classes for years, and I will try to explain to you why we believe so. Social Security is the fruit of the workers' conquests, don't forget. Social Security money belongs to the affiliates, to their contributors; it is not government money and it is not state money, as you have said. It is not state money; it is, as we trade unionists say, a deferred wage that the government must preserve, pamper, revalue and, if it can, increase, sharing wealth when things go well, and you have done it very badly, not only because you have not been able to maintain the sustainability of the system, but also because you are already allowing pensions to stay below the CPI. When you see that more than one pensioner has been paid 2 euros, the truth is that you're really pissed off. As Paul said before: How much has the light gone up? Hence the rebellion, the discontent of millions of people - and rightly so - because they play with the dignity of their lives in their last years. Listen to the masses, listen to people much more than they do. Mr Rajoy, listen and ask why once again the workers must go out to defend their public pension system demonstration to demonstration and strike to strike, as always. Mr Rajoy, there is nothing left in the pension hut, which was created for when the baby boom generation came to retirement. That was her motive and now she's been expoliated, and I say expoliated because the pension system has two mechanisms to ensure its sustainability, and you've failed both; I'll tell you why. One, the creation of the Reserve Fund, created with the surpluses of our contributions and, two, the obligation of the State to cover the shortfalls in contributions. We started with the first, Reserve Fund and Social Security Surpluses. It is very important to remember that all the surpluses in the history of Social Security were destined to fill the State's lack of income and used for policies that had nothing to do with Social Security. It is important to remember that there is a historical debt, a debt, if one wishes, forgiven by the contributors; there is a concealment of the middle billions of financing that the General Treasury of Social Security has made to the State that, as the union Workers' Commissions has demonstrated in its appearance on 28 November in the Toledo Pact, exceeds 500 billion euros, half a billion euros that were allocated at different times in the last forty years to expenses that had nothing to do with Social Security. And do you still have the shame, Mr Rajoy, of returning these lost millionaire transfers to us in the form of loans to Social Security, when whenever the money from Social Security, our contributions, our savings for other purposes has been used in the form of lost millionaire transfers and not in the form of loans? If I had done better, the Reserve Fund would have been created earlier and today we would have a good stock market of billions more in that fund to alleviate the effect of the economic disaster called the crisis, as other countries did. Let's get to the point. We do not want to forget this historic debt, even though it is hidden. Even so, from the year 2000, when the Reserve Fund was established, until 2011, in just eleven years that Pension Hitch Reserve Fund was increased with the excess revenues that finance the contributory benefits, our contributions, until reaching 66,815 million euros of surplus in 2011. Three years after the crisis and until you arrived, Mr Rajoy, the Reserve Fund was in historical record. Not to mention what they owe us in the past was EUR 66 815 million. To this enormous amount of money saved we would have to add quite a few million more to the social security bonuses and exemptions given by the Government to the business community, which on many occasions are not justified or demonstrated their return in the form of employment. In any case, they are expenses that would never have had to come out of the box of our quotes. We don't have to subsidize the business in any way. You should not give the money of the working class and pensioners to the entrepreneur. If that's your policy, take that money out of other parts of the state budget, but not out of our one-size-fits-all Social Security box. Secondly, the Government fails to fulfil the obligation to provide, with contributions from the State, the shortfalls in contributions that we currently have and that under no circumstances are the responsibility of the contributors. Instead of contributions, they give us loans that falsely owe Social Security. That's the trap, that's your trap, Mr. Rajoy. The truth is that we do not know whether the Pension Reserve Fund has been charged for pure incompetence or whether it has been charged as a result of the liberal ideology shared by the People's Party and Citizens to stimulate private pension schemes, as they have done with the latest incentives and which certain companies have negotiated with their betrayal of pensioners. It is clear to us that if expenditure is not covered by contributions, these must be financed from the budgets of the lost State. [[Applauds]] And this is possible, given that the Kingdom of Spain - and here I will give a figure; I give few, but this is important - is well below the European average in terms of social protection, namely 23.7% of GDP, almost 5 points less than the European average devoted to social expenditure. By fine-tuning more - even more than the prosecution - all the countries in our environment devote more percentage of GDP than the Kingdom of Spain to social spending, including Portugal and Greece. Then, there is scope in the State's budgets for direct transfers to Social Security, which are not in the form of loans. If they are unable to maintain the sustainability of the pension system, then cut off some unnecessary expenses in order to be able to pay decent pensions. They can do it. Cut, for example, into military expenditures and stop increasing the military budget. Tell Mr Rajoy, Mr Trump, if you are capable, that you cannot increase the military budget by 80% over the next seven years because you need it to make contributions, not loans, to pay pensions. [[Applauds]] Cut back on rescuing failed projects from your business friends, such as the Castor project or Madrid's radial highways. Cut it out there. They cut tax benefits to big companies and fortunes, but do not cut pensioners the pension they owe them, their pensions. Pensioners have the right to receive a decent pension and to have their social needs covered. Read article 50 of the Constitution and defend it with the same vehemence as the sacred unity of Spain - I would like to see it - because the rights of individuals are an obligation for the Government; comply with this obligation. It is your Government, with the indispensable help of the governments that preceded you and now with Citizens, that makes it unsustainable; the system is sustainable, it is you who are not sustainable. [[Applauds]] It is his government with the indispensable help of the governments, first of all - and let me make a parenthesis - for the obscene financial feast that ended in an economic disaster in which the losses of the big bank were socialized dramatically for the popular classes and now there is no money. But you tell the truth, there is no money because they are obliged to pay the debts for the mandate of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which obliges the payment of the debt above the payment of any other social item, however essential it is, even if it is the pensions; that article 135 that we already know how they conceived it: by a call from Merkel. What makes the pension system unsustainable is labour reforms, Mr Rajoy. There can't be decent pensions without decent wages, it's impossible. The reforms of the PSOE and the People's Party are incompatible with the sustainability of the pension system. How will pensions be maintained if there has been a widespread reduction in wages and, therefore, in social security contributions? The problem of pensions is not the pension system but its economic system, its labour reforms and its fiscal policy. The problem of pensions is not to rectify the productive model based on brick and not on innovation and industry; it was the models of the People's Party and the PSOE that caused this crisis to be much worse than in other countries. The problem of pensions is that we have to deal with collective bargaining and the bargaining capacity of trade unions, because their exit from the crisis was to prioritise company agreements, creating job dumping with the reduction of wages and contributions. Its exit from the crisis is to take a look at the fraud known to everyone to Social Security, to allow the fraud in the norm of many contract companies for 20 hours: payment 40 and works 60. That is the crisis and that is what makes the system unsustainable: do nothing against the submerged economy. Its exit from the crisis has made the rich richer and the poor poorer, and has impoverished especially the women pensioners, who have had the lowest wages and conditions, to the point that in the Spanish State a man earns 6000 euros more per year for a pension than a woman, a genuine injustice that obviates the contribution of women to society with the historical assumption that they have made of unpaid and precarious work. [[Applauds]] I could go on, but in any case it is indefatigable already - and with this I finish - one, to adopt fiscal measures with resources from the State budget, not from the Social Security budget, less fiscal amnesties and a more determined fight against fraud against Social Security and the Public Finance. Two, restoring the usurped role of trade unions to the power of collective bargaining; collective bargaining is one of the best tools in redistributive policies. Three, take the necessary measures to ensure that those periods of long-term inactivity of low-paid or part-time working persons are not penalised in the future with a poverty benefit. Four, to remove the contribution to maximums; the wage gap in the same company between those who receive more and those who receive less has reached an abysmal dimension that must be corrected by higher contributions than those who charge the most to the hedge of pensions for all. Five, promote the equalization of pensions between men and women by studying the application of a corrective factor that compensates for pension differences for the difference in contributions during working life. Six, raising the interprofessional minimum wage to more than 1000 euros as the European Social Charter says - you already comply with international treaties -, demanding the recovery of bank bailout, etc. In short, and now I am done, our pensioners must live with dignity, act, think, Mr Rajoy, and remember what we say to you: no loans, make budget contributions and remember that the system is sustainable, there is no pension crisis, you are the crisis. Mr Rajoy, there are no decent pensions without decent wages and that is why we must repeal the labour reforms and pension reform that you have made. By the way, the 17th of this month is going to see you again another tide of pensioners and it's not by chance, the masses sometimes have more reasons than you think. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u33	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I join the solidarity and affection shown by the rest of the speakers to Gabriel's family. Mr President, the first thing that came to my mind at the convening of this plenary session was to think that, in order for it to have happened, something had to be doing very badly for a long time. If there is a committee on the Toledo Pact, if that Commission has been meeting permanently for months, how is it possible that nothing has been achieved? What is more, would we be debating pensions in plenary if the many demonstrations of recent months had not taken place? I don't think so. I remember the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero boasting that the pension grant continued to grow. At its 2008 census, the Government felt that this dynamic would never end, years of milk and honey. Why reflect on the demographic evolution that was already taking place? The economic crisis immediately arrived, showing in his nakedness a government that had not seen it coming, despite the warnings of this House. And then you came, unravelling mandoblazos, unilaterally, yes, without consensus and bravery and without the Toledo Pact, which you have put so much into your speech, taking emergency measures to save the numbers before Europe and kick ahead of the ball. But either you pick up that pension ball or, if it keeps rolling, it'll end up unplayable. At the beginning of the current legislature, all parties claimed to have the issue of pensions, including the Government, among their priorities. Of course, we are all aware of the need to reshape the system in order to consolidate it and make it viable for future generations. The investment of the demographic pyramid, the impact of the economic crisis and - I must stress this - the unacceptable general reduction in wages demands this. However, the Commission has gone through an endless succession of experts who were merely ratifying the existence of more than half a dozen specific issues on which a decision has to be taken. And his parliamentary group has encouraged him because he does not want to rectify his policies by a millimetre. I believe that making decisions by general consensus requires leaving the matter out of partisan struggles and that that happens in Spain would be a small miracle. We are talking nothing less than about the revenue of over 8.5 million people, of one volume, you said, which accounts for 40% of the state's expenditure, but it is still possible to secure the system and provide it with a decent minimum. However, decisions remain to be taken because the pension issue is not to be abandoned as a political field of war for the taking of votes. Everyone sees that we approach the cliff if no changes are addressed, but no one dares to put the rattlesnake on the cat. This leads me to a second reflection: Political forces are more focused on conveying a message to citizens than on actually doing something concrete. Many people in good faith will think that the decisions that the majority are waiting for will come out of this plenary debate and that in the short term they will be reduced to: whether or not the CPI will be raised to pensions. This debate, because of its format and media nature, is impossible to lead to conclusions and even less to strong consensus, what I am going to tell you about mandates to the Executive. Even if conclusions had been voted on today, which will not be done, would not have been binding on the Government, they would not have changed the bulletin and neither would they have changed the GNP adopted yesterday by this House on pensions. The third point is that it is primarily up to you, Mr President, and not another, to present the proposals. To begin with, because the model you have referred to does not enjoy any consensus, and you know it, but also, and above all, because it leads per se to a constant reduction in the resources of the beneficiaries. Therefore, ensuring the pension system is not simply that there is a system, when what is charged can be ridiculous, that is not the objective; the objective is that there is a system and that perceptions are worthy. In short, the system, as it is right now, Mr President, has no future if we really want to secure decent pensions for the citizens. In other words, this model, unilaterally implemented by you, is not the solution, as all experts and you yourself have at times acknowledged at the meetings of the Commission. Even if an undetectable sudden economic boom caused jobs to grow exponentially, the government can trust everything to a surprising economic boom, it cannot say: this already works, an economic boom will come and with this we have secured everything! No, if we know that there are other data - objective data that are not going to change - that make the system, in its current format, not viable. Speak clearly to people and leave optimistic, uncritical messages, which no one, on the other hand, believes. The Official State Gazette needs to be changed, and that requires majorities and consensus. Right. But the Government cannot hide itself in the manic phrase that it must be the opposition that makes the proposals exclusively, that is absolutely false because it is the Government that has all the data and knows from its control of the Administration the exact state of Social Security. The opposition can propose ideas and must seek consensus; but the Government has the means to specify the details of a reform. For our part I will give you a few ideas and fix our position. For the Basque Nationalist Party the public social security system must be the basic pillar of the pension system, always maintaining its public character, both in its financing and in its management. It must also be a minimally predictable system for beneficiaries and in no case retrogressive. In order to reach new commitments and create an appropriate climate, we must first of all regain the consensus before the 10th Legislature and, in our view, repeal Law 23/2013, which regulates the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the pension system because, as conceived, and without any other conditioning, the law leads us to a drastic drop in perceptions that will become even more evident from the coming year with the entry into force of the sustainability factor. And we must find new, clearer, secure and transparent formulas, with broad agreement - I absolutely agree with that - in the Toledo Pact. It is therefore also necessary - we say this as clearly as we have always said - to restore at this time, in order to achieve that consensus as a formula for updating pensions, their link to the CPI. On the other hand, it is urgent and inescapable, and for this the information of the Government is essential, to eliminate the improper expenses of the Social Security System that are so much wasting on the system itself, and I am referring to the countless exemptions, bonuses and reductions in company contributions. It is this latter factor, together with the investment of the population pyramid, the crisis and the wage devaluation, which have led us to the present situation of imbalance and, unless in the medium term economic recovery implies a high job creation and wage contributions are raised a lot, I fear that this imbalance will become chronic. Yes, Mr President, we have to do an individualised study of all these bonuses and exemptions, some of which have their origin even in times of dictatorship, and which accumulate without account so that no one, without the help of a large technical vademecum, is able to learn in all its extent. And that must be done by the Government, just as the corresponding equine Government pushed them at the time. It's not just worth accumulating: you'll have to prune in the system. Finally, if necessary, the deficit will have to be supplemented by the general state budgets. But in addition, Mr President, that future must be secured with new formulas and bets. The possibility of finding complementary systems must be explored. I have said it before and I repeat it again: the public character of the system is fundamental, without it the weakest will find themselves without resources in the last stage of their lives. It is and must remain the premise of the system. But in our view it would be worth exploring the possibilities, for example, of voluntary, preferential or non-profit social security institutions, both within companies and among self-employed persons. It could be interesting to start by empowering one, with trade unions and employers, to have mandatory contributions to EPSV employment agreements and agreements beyond the CPI. There is another matter that I cannot fail to mention: we demand for the Basque Autonomous Community to transfer the management of the economic system of social security, as laid down in the statutory text. The law, Mr President, as you often say, must be complied with. Comply with and proceed - even after thirty-nine years of the adoption of the Statute of Gernika - to carry out the transfer. It is law, Mr President, no whim or imposition. Don't tell me that the numbers in Euskadi are negative and that it wouldn't suit us. Of course, they are negative!, as they are also negative throughout the state. We'll take it. Our economic models, such as the Concert, are at risk. But I can assure you that the Basque administration was not going to remain inactive in the search for real solutions, which cannot be preached by this Parliament. And I'm done. A number of conclusions can be drawn from the experience: Unilateral party decisions should not be made, as you did in 2013. Real agreements are not going to come about on the basis of publicly broadcast debates. If a future solution to the pension system is to be found, it is necessary to leave this issue outside the partisan struggle. In order to reach consensus, Law 23/2013 should be repealed, pensions should be revalued on the basis of the CPI and it is urgent to take decisions if the system is to be viable. In size matter we're going to put the rattlesnake on the cat at once. I would like to ask you, Mr President, my colleagues in the House and myself, of course, to be able to make decisions in the near future that will ensure the future of pensions and bring tranquillity and certainty to citizens. Mr President, patches are not worth, as you and some others have proposed, but to talk about this I will use my second speaking shift. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor in the first place for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now in its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u36	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Our group also wants to join the condolences to the family of the child Gabriel. Mr President of the Government, in your speech you have repeatedly insisted on a state pact, consensus and agreements. The truth is that it has little political authority in this area to appeal to the sense of state, to agreements and to consensus. In 2011, in the face of a pension reform agreed with the social partners, with a correct content - because you then did not want to change it - he opted for the political calculation to oppose that reform in order to oppose the socialist government; for pure electoral calculation. In 2013 it decided to impose a pension reform without any agreement with the social partners and without any parliamentary support, breaking the dynamics of the Toledo Pact since 1995. Since 1995, all pension reforms had been characterized by three elements: political recommendations within the Toledo Pact Commission, agreements between the social partners and a bill to be dealt with in the Courts, which added new political support. In 2013 they decided that no, and there were alternatives, Mr President, in 2013; then, if you want, we can delve into that. Second consideration. You make a defense of the 2013 reform by obviating a fundamental and founding element of the Toledo Pact. In 1995, the Toledo Pact decided to link pension developments to price developments. And why, Mr Rajoy, is this action decided in 1995? Because it was known that, on the one hand, the main economic risk that pensioners have is nothing other than that inflation eats the value of their pension, and the pensioner has no decision-making capacity to correct that factor of inflation. During 2013, 2014 and 2015, with inflations tending to zero, that was perhaps a smaller issue, but in Catalonia since 2016 and in Spain as a whole since 2017 - and in 2018 also for Spain as a whole - inflation is eating the value of pensions. That, Mr President of the Government, is opening a gradual process of impoverishment of pensioners, which is what the European Commission has put to the Spanish Government in its last report, and that is what the experts have brought us before the Toledo Pact Commission. Because the original sin in that form of the IRP is that it does not aim to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners, it does not aim to protect pensioners from the risk of inflation; it simply establishes a budgetary restriction, which it claims is that, until the system is in equilibrium, pensions cannot be protected against that risk of inflation. It is an unfair system and must be changed. For the year 2018 - there are already initiatives of the Socialist Group, of the Democratic Party - we propose an increase of 1.6 and within the framework of the Toledo Pact we should achieve a new mechanism of annual revaluation of pensions that had as main objective the guarantee of the purchasing power of the pensioners and that had the flexibility that the old formula - the original formula of the Toledo Pact - proved not to have during the years of the crisis. At the same time, drawing on the best European legislation, it would also be able to ensure that in times of economic growth all pensioners could benefit from this economic growth, which was not the case in the CPI formula. They have to rectify, they must return to the Toledo Pact, they must return to the sense of state that you claimed and that - I insist - in 2011 and 2013 they did not have. Of course, we have a demographic, technological and economic challenge that is linked to some of the reflections that your ladies and gentlemen have made; of course, some reforms need to be deepened, separate from sources of financing of the Social Security System where the journey is very important; we need to review the sustainability factor that is introduced in 2013, which is a terribly unfair factor; of course, we need to establish new ways of financing the Public Pension System; of course, we need to learn from the experience in Basque from a complementary social forecast agreed within companies; of course, we need to make progress in making pensions compatible with work; of course, we need to extend the period of pension calculation by giving workers freedom to choose their best years. There is a possible agenda for reforms, but that agenda for reforms requires agreements; agreements, Mr President - and that is the end of it, Madam President - that in order to be sustainable they need not to be approved by an absolute majority, because when absolute majority is lost, what has happened in this debate, which are alone, happens. Citizens whistle a little in relation to the question of prices, as it characterizes, to see where public opinion moves to fix its position, but they are alone. When ruled from loneliness, from the exercise of absolute majority and without the support of the social partners in the reforms of pension systems, the reforms do not resist. The 2013 reform has expired. Rectify, have a sense of state - the one you have not had so far in this matter - and be able to agree with all groups in defense of the Public Pension System. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u37	Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, where's the hut? We haven't talked about the hut in his speech. You say: We can't spend what we don't have. Indeed, you can't spend what you don't have because you've probably spent it on other things, and I give you an example. In the hard years of the crisis, while pensions rose by 0.25, defence spending increased by 40%. Year 2012, decree-law in August: 2750 million; year 2013, decree-law in August: 1954; year 2014, decree-law in August: 1947; year 2015, decree-law in August: 1967 million. In total, almost 9 billion, five times what would have cost to upgrade pensions to the CPI. There was no money for pensions but for arms, and it seems that there will continue to be money for arms because your Minister of Defense has already said that he intends to increase the ministry's budget by 30%. In the midst of the crisis there was no money to rescue pensions but to rescue banks, 60 billion that we are not going to touch again because they have vanished, 5.6 of GDP has vanished by rescuing banks. Now there's no money for pensions but yes for rescuing highways, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000... We'll see how much money it is in the end. Or the Beaver. No, this year there will be no money for pensioners, pensions will not be revalued at the CPI and it will be thanks to that couple of unsaved PP-Citizens, Rajoy-Rivera; formally unsaved but very well-wounded in the fundamentals. Yesterday morning they agreed to prevent Podemos's bill from being debated for pensions to go up with the CPI. Well, let us make a proposal: that if the budgets are presented in this House, an amendment will be made revaluing pensions to the CPI. I'm sure Mr. Rivera doesn't have the guts to approve. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. No, we can't spend what we don't have, but let's talk about income, let's not talk about spending. What does everyone pay in Spain? Workers, 14.9%; SMEs, 12.2%; and large enterprises, 7.3%, half. In 2015, large companies won 85 billion and paid only 6,000. If they paid like SMEs, they would have paid 10, 4 billion euros more; if they paid like workers, 12 billion dollars, double, 6 billion dollars more. Finally, I am making a proposal which we believe is a good proposal, and with this I conclude, Madam President. I echo the Bureau's proposal for the reinforcement of pensions, MERP, of a constitutional reform, as they did with article 135, so that if banks at that time had the right to collect their money, to prioritize, to shield pensions and to force the maintenance of purchasing power. I say this because listening to Celia Villalobos and the governor of the Banco de España unhindered me. It would be a constitutional reform that would prohibit a Government from cutting or privatizing the public pension system in whole or in part. A good proposition, Mr. Rivera. Why is he not able to follow us in this proposal? Do we agree or continue to dance the rigor, in the right words of Mr. Rajoy? No, we can't spend what we don't have, but what we can do is distribute it better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u39	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u40	Good morning. Egun on. The truth is that if we are here today, it is because the tiredness, the limit situation, the progressive loss of purchasing power and the dark prospects for the future have brought thousands of pensioners to the streets. If not, you would continue to refer us, as Mr Rajoy has done today, to the need for consensus and to the Toledo Pact, by the way, a consensus that the People's Party did not expect to implement the 2013 reforms, enough with the roll of the absolute majority. Do not believe, however, that it has only been the perric increase of 0.25 % that has brought the pensioners to the street, at least in Euskal Herria not, and I understand that neither in the rest of the state. In the face of this created situation, above all there are three complaints on the table... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u41	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u42	On the one hand, 0.25 % does not, the CPI; on the other hand, that the dignified minimum pensions, since so much has been said here this morning about dignity, are in the case of Euskal Herria of 1080 euros, and, of course, also a system of protection and social security. The PNV representative on the transfer was speaking. We share that request, but we still go further and believe that we should have all the tools to equip ourselves with a system of protection and social security of our own, because we understand in Euskal Herria that remaining bound to his system and to Madrid means nothing more than perpetuating the poverty of present and future pensioners. In recent years the crisis has been used as an excuse - first by the PSOE, then by the PP - to make reforms that not only reduce current pensions, but all, because we will have to work more to reach retirement, the base will be smaller and we will charge for less years. I mean, the longer we live, the poorer we'll be. So let me not be told that it is because of the crisis, because something short-term has been used to take structural and long-term measures. They should explain to us that not only the bad employment policies they have implemented are the cause of what is happening, but that the reserve fund has been used for anything but pensions - for bank bailouts, for public debt - and what they should also say, not only some of the People's Party, but clearly the party, is that what they claim is that each of us do... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u43	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u44	... a private pension plan, and for that they have to dismantle the public pension system. I end by asking two questions, because I think they are the key: if we believe that people should have a decent minimum pension and if we believe that this should be 60% of the average wage in the area. These two questions I have asked many times here when we talked about pensions. If the answer is yes, the truth is that more than good words are needed; important reforms are needed. Because the good words, such as those used here by Mr Rajoy this morning, do not give rise to the dignity and recognition that pensioners deserve. The main danger to the system, among the many mentioned today, is the People's Party and its policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u46	Thank you, President. Members of the Executive, Mr President, Members of Parliament, very good morning. I join the memory and from here a very strong hug to Gabriel's family. I will establish the position of the Navarro People's Union, which is based on three major axes. Firstly, to guarantee public pensions in Spain; secondly, to maintain the purchasing power of current and future pensioners and, therefore, to refer to the CPI pensions and, thirdly, to make reforms in the future without diminishing the rights of current and future pensioners. I agree with you, Mr President, that this is truly a matter of state, but let me tell you that a debate cannot be raised as a perverse dichotomy of whether it is the government's responsibility or whether it is in demagoguery or good intentions. I disagree with that, Mr. President. Because, in fact, reaching agreements requires the attitude of the Government, leading the measures, and the attitude of all political groups, putting pensions above the partisan interest, for the common good of the Spaniards, as I said yesterday in the non-law proposal that we voted in favour with the Socialist Group. Secondly, I also do not think that we should get rid of the figures that support it at the macroeconomic level, but - I insist - there are still millions of families on the street today who do not arrive at the end of the month and many families who continue to live maintained thanks to the pension of the pensioners. The second I have left, UPN wants to be proactive and wants to put the following measures on the table of the Toledo Pact. Firstly, to allocate to the pension fund any increase in annual tax collection. Secondly, an exemption in the IRPF for current and future pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. For Foro, being Asturias one of the autonomous communities with the largest number of pensioners and the one suffering from the biggest demographic crisis and job creation in Spain, this is an urgent and essential debate. The first cause of the crisis in the public pension system is the ageing of the population as a result of an alarming fall in the birth rate, without the successive governments of democracy having taken steps to promote it through a system of direct aid, as the main European countries have. Precisely for this reason, the first guarantee of future pensions is to address and implement as an emergency measure a birth promotion plan, inspired by that of Germany or France, based on direct aid, in addition to other measures such as greater flexibility in work and timetables or promoting stability in the jobs of the couple. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u49	One moment, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u50	Secondly, the sustainability of the present and the future of pensions depends on job creation. Spain needs more and better contributors to have more and better pensions. Populist frivolities of the type of new fiscal occurrences or peripecies from the General Budgets of the State are a deception and assure the worst future. The great threat to pensions will come from the fact that our country does not provide jobs because it is not competitive. That is why we share the objective set in the investiture that Spain should reach 20 million workers in this legislature. As we move gradually towards this figure, we believe that periodic pension assessments are necessary to adjust and update them with progressive criteria that raise the lowest and prevent, in addition, no regressive cuts. Mr President, promote convergence and real agreement with the political, trade union and business forces to revitalize the Toledo Pact, try to achieve the greatest protection for our pensioners and avoid their impoverishment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u51	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the Canary Islands Coalition believes that pensions should be updated to the CPI, especially those which, as I told Minister Montoro this week, have an amount that, of course, is insufficient to live in dignity. The Canary Islands Coalition is the only one who has always spoken here of non-contributory pensions because, at national level, there are very few -450,000 compared to 14 million - however, in the Canary Islands they are three times more than at national level, and not because they have not been worked, but mainly because women worked as dumb all their lives in tomatoes or in emigration - as also happens in Galicia - and were unable to contribute. We believe that 30 euros in maximum pensions do not solve anything to the pensioner who receives a pension of two thousand and peak, but in a non-contributory pension of 360 euros, 30 euros represent 10%. Coalition Canaria signed an agreement with the People's Party in which we committed in this legislature that non-contributory pensions would have a significant increase to the minimum wage. In the proposal I made to Minister Montoro this week, we proposed to increase the non-contributory contributions by 10%, to update the minimum pensions to the CPI and, perhaps, we could allow ourselves to increase to the highest level that 0.25 %. I am going to raise a very important matter that no one has mentioned. The extremely serious situation of Spaniards who contributed in Venezuela to whom until two years ago the Government of Venezuela transferred their pensions but who had not received any kind of pension for two years and who, under the regulations of our country, could not access non-contributory benefits or social inclusion benefits. Coalition Canaria here and in the Senate has proposed that we have to find a solution for those thousands of Spaniards, mainly canaries, who cannot even access the non-contributory. The only thing that needs to be done, Madam Minister and Mr President, is to allow those Spaniards, in this situation of helplessness in our country and with the situation of Venezuela, to be able to collect here, until they can collect the pension of Venezuela since they have not done so for two years. This affects the poverty and dignity of Spaniards who, with their efforts in Venezuela, also helped build the Canary Islands and build this country. For the Canary Islands and Galicia it is a fundamental issue. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u53	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr President of the Government, there is not a single recipe for responding to crises such as that suffered by the Spanish State and much of the developed world. There is not a single recipe, there are several and you chose one. As I told you throughout the past parliamentary term - the valid one - in a harsh way, the policy you chose, the economic, fiscal and social one, was the wrong policy, a policy that tended to benefit the powerful. The consequences are clear today: obscene benefits and wages in a certain sector which, on the other hand, is responsible for the crisis and, in addition, weakening and impoverishment of the weakest, pensioners and working classes. That's what we have on the table today. What is being shown is that these policies led to this situation: more inequality and a severe impoverishment of important layers of pensioners who see a single future, which is to significantly deteriorate their quality of life if things do not change in an absolutely blunt way. In the case of workers, there is 90% temporary work and 50% part-time work. This is not the way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u56	It seemed to me to understand that you have made an appeal to consensus and I would like to think that that is true because the ultra-liberal policy that you have practiced so far has failed. Finally, I have to ask you: why don't you keep insulting pensioners or someone insulting pensioners by sending them letters on top and luxury stationery to tell them they're going to raise their pension 2 euros? I think we need to get this over with, really. I have seen the response of many people and I assure you that you would not like to know what they are saying. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u57	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be allowed as a Member of Parliament for Almeria my first words are aimed at reminding Gabriel and also at supporting his parents, Patricia and Angel, who have given us an example of strength over these days, as well as thanking the affection that many Spaniards have shown for them over these fifteen dramatic days. This, as Patricia would say, shows that Spain is full of good people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 1978 Constitution gave the public authorities the responsibility to ensure a fair and balanced public pension system; a pension system which obtains its contributions mainly through social contributions and which uses a system of distribution for its payment. The pension system, therefore, is not an invention of Mrs Robles or of the socialists because what you almost always do is the opposite, which is to leave the system bankrupt, to leave the system in deficit so that others come to fix it. [[Applauds]] It already happened in the 1990s and that led us to the Toledo Pact, which was developed in the 1997 Act to consolidate and rationalize the social security system, a pact that was ratified by the social forces but approved by the majority of this House. This pact has been one of the most important and useful social agreements in our democracy, although some today want to ignore it. The success of our system, which is recognized as one of the best in the world, has been based precisely on continued loyalty to its recommendations, and so it was until 2010 that the Socialist Party decided to freeze pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, when we arrived at the government in 2011, we were faced with a dramatic scenario: frozen pensions and a loss of purchasing power as never before in history, a system with more than 7 billion deficits, employment being destroyed at an unstoppable pace and the threat of a rescue that other countries such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal could not avoid. At that time, the Government of the People's Party took three decisions. First, it decided to raise pensions above inflation, then we continued with the separation of sources and guaranteed a minimum revaluation of 0.25, which would be higher when economic conditions allowed it. We ensure by law that pensions cannot be arbitrarily frozen again and we develop the sustainability factor so that they always rise, and during the last six years pensions have always risen. Secondly, we avoid the rescue of Spain, a rescue that Greece, that political model that you so much want and defend, Mr Iglesias, and specialized in creating poverty, has meant 40% cut in pensions, Mr Iglesias. For the third time in March this year pensions have fallen again in Greece: 384 euros is now the minimum pension, half the minimum pension in Spain. [[applause]] The average pension is 450 euros, while at present the average Spanish pension exceeds 1000. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the financial system was also rescued in Greece. The financial system was also rescued. In Cyprus it was not done and it was at the expense of the current accounts of the savers, many also retired. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our financial system had to be put in place to rescue the economy of all Spaniards. Thirdly, from job creation, the fundamental axis of economic growth was made, as this is the essential instrument to reverse the deterioration of the social security accounts, and already in 2017 the greatest collection of the history of social security has been obtained, although it is still insufficient to balance the system. There are now 2,300,000 more members of Social Security than at the worst time of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, pension reform has been and is intended to ensure that it is done, with a fair, just and sustainable distribution of efforts between generations, because our commitment to today's pensioners also has to think about tomorrow's pensioners. There is much talk about the CPI, but the reality is that during these six years of the People's Party government pensioners have improved their purchasing power and in the four years in which the revaluation rate has been applied, pensioners have barely lost a tenth in total. The reality, even if you don't like it, is that more pensions are paid today, pensions are higher and there are more pensioners than ever. In addition, Mr Rivera, after the reduction of the IRPF in 2015, pensioners pay less taxes. They stopped paying those who had less than 12 000 and now we are going to raise them, if you support the budgets, to the level between 12 000 and 14 000, so I would ask everyone to be cautious when talking about these issues. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the risk of poverty has fallen among pensioners from 17 to 6.3%, the lowest in our history. Today we allocate 44 billion more to our pension system than when we arrived at the government, 44 billion more each year, and every year pensions, with only vegetative growth, represent growth close to 3 billion. This is the great challenge that we have to face in the future in view of the future situation of the Spanish population and our age pyramid. The baby boom generation, ladies and gentlemen, is going to retire, will begin to do so at the beginning of the next decade and the birth rate is in historical minimums. Today half of the children born in 1978 and this reality poses a problem of resources and sustainability of the system in the medium and long term. This is the great debate that would have to be raised in this House and in the Toledo Pact Commission. This is what we should be talking about and about this is what we should be preparing our future. I know we'd all like to raise our pensions. Of course, who doesn't? How can we not like to raise pensions? Of course we do and improve the situation of our elders. This is what the People's Party has done for a long time and what Spanish society itself and the various governments have done for the past forty years, although some today do not seem to want to realize. The situation of our elders is based not only on pensions, but also on a comprehensive system of protection, in which there is dependence, health and social protection, and all that counts. Not only do we allocate 40% of our budget to the elderly, but much more resources and the elderly know it, and because they know it, ladies and gentlemen, they have responsible attitudes, beyond what may be the legitimate protest that at times may have caused them a letter that, by the way, we have to send by law to our elders every year. That was also one of the agreements that we all agreed on. Ladies and gentlemen, Congress should try to take advantage of the situation to anticipate the events of the future; this is what we should all be thinking about, not making demagogic proposals, opportunistic proposals. I have listened today to many groups calling for the rise of the CPI, but, ladies and gentlemen, have they analysed what has produced the rise of the CPI during all these years? It has produced a very clear thing, and that is that the gap between the maximum pension and the minimum pension has increased from EUR 17 000 to more than EUR 28 000 in 20 years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, proposals such as the one made today by the President of the Government to raise minimum pensions are the proposals that we should be supporting everyone and that we should support everyone, supporting and supporting a budget, such as the budget for 2018, whose fundamental objective must be job creation and economic growth. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the fundamental thing. The vetoes imposed by the Government and other groups on the initiatives of the left have been discussed here. Mrs Robles, that was also done by your Government, or by your party's government, when it was in the government - fortunately, it is not today - but, ladies and gentlemen, have you thought what would have happened if the People's Party or the government had not vetoed the initiatives of the left, initiatives that in just one year would have meant spending more than EUR 90 billion? In just one year €90 billion more spending on the various initiatives that the government has been forced to veto. You would have ended, not with the pension system anymore, but with the pension system, with health, with education and would have brought the entire public system back to bankruptcy. [[Applauds]] That is the problem you have, which are very generous when it comes to giving, but you don't know how to collect. Their policies are no good for generating jobs, our own. We have demonstrated this in this country throughout history and we will continue to demonstrate it in what remains of the Government and in the coming years that we will be in the Government. We know that we have the support of the elderly to do so and also of those who, without being older every day, contribute with their effort and work the money of contributions and taxes to keep their elders. This is the most important state pact that has ever been made since our Constitution, it is the intergenerational pact between generations who have the capacity to work and the older ones who must have the guarantee of a future life, stable, reasonable and sustainable, ladies and gentlemen. And sustainable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Today's joys, or today's bread, cannot be hunger for tomorrow. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when you have already experienced what other people's economic policies have meant, you know very well who guarantees pensions, who supports our system, who does real social policies and who simply comes to this House to demagogy, to ask for patches and to deceive or try to deceive people by taking them out on the street with banners that are absolutely useless. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u59	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make a few comments on the various speeches that have taken place after the first mine this morning. I begin, first of all, by responding to the speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Robles. I don't know if it makes any sense for us to go in and discuss why I'm here or why I'm not here. I am here primarily for three reasons which I have explained with meridian clarity in my first speech and which I assume you will have heard. Therefore, I do not understand why you do not want to agree with me on those reasons which, on the other hand, are very obvious. First of all, because I believe that this is an extremely important issue, it affects all the Spaniards and, in addition, it represents a budget line, the most important in all the budgets of the public administrations. And I think it's good that in the Congress of Deputies - because if not, I don't know where it would be - we debate important issues that concern people. Secondly, because two parliamentary groups in this House asked me to come. That was the second reason. And thirdly, because I have seen - and so I have said in my initial speech - that there are some people who have certain concerns about this subject, and I wanted to give - and I repeat - to everyone a message of tranquility: pensions in our country are guaranteed. Of course, if there is a reason why I came here, it is not because you asked me, because you did not ask me to come to this House. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I understand that you speak here as a representative and on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. After listening to the intervention, let me tell you just one thing. I am very worried after listening to what you have said about pensions. He then made a number of considerations about banks; I remind him that the company tax we lowered last year to 25%, except for financial institutions, which remains at 30%. With EUR 1 billion I can assure you that the problems of a model that costs every year, as I have said before, EUR 140 billion are not solved. So let us do a little less demagogy, which is absolutely useless. [[Applauds]] The labour reform, which you so reproached for, served to create more than 500 000 jobs a year in Spain at this time, and I hope that will last a long time because, as we have done, we will be able to achieve, as we have done, that the increase in contributions by working people is already above the increase in pension spending. Finally, saying that economics and employment have nothing to do with government policies is as much as saying, "Hey, what are you and me doing here?" [[Laughter]] I believe that there is economic growth and employment in Spain, among other reasons, because an economic policy that had led to the opposite was changed: in the absence of economic growth, recession and five years of continuous destruction of employment. [[Applauds]] So let's put things in place. The worst thing for the future of pensions, Mrs Robles - it is important that we all have some clear concepts - is to carry out an economic policy that does not generate growth and employment and that, in addition, leaves public accounts on the verge of bankruptcy. That's lethal, that's the worst thing that can happen to the pension system, to ours and to any country in the world, that comes a government, generates negative economic growth, generates unemployment and leaves public accounts made, with pardon for the expression, foxes. In its last legislature, Social Security lost 2.2 million contributors, which is very strong. Luckily, we've already recovered them. In the past year there have been more than 600,000 new social security contributors. But it not only lost 2.2 million social security contributors, which means that for those 2.2 million, it lost €70 billion in collection, and in the meantime the number of pensioners continued to increase and we had an obligation to reduce the public deficit. So let's put things in place. There must be a certain moral authority to give lessons on what issues. Your Honor, to say that the structural deficit of Social Security is 1.6 is something that all the members of this House know very well, but when we get to the government we find a deficit of 9.3. What are you teaching us about? Today the deficit is 3.1, that of the general government as a whole. [[Applauds]] That has been very good for generating economic growth and employment in Spain. Yes, it was a very difficult stage, on the verge of bankruptcy, threatened with rescue. Do you know what happened to those countries that were rescued in terms of pensions and others? Yes, you do. For here we managed to get rid of ourselves and we managed to lower the risk premium and we managed to finance ourselves at reasonable prices. Ladies and gentlemen, there are things that make very little sense. You now come to say that you have to index pensions to the CPI and therefore you have to upload them to the CPI. But you don't have the authority to say this, because I remember the previous president of the government coming to this House saying that even though the law said that pensions would be paid according to the CPI he wasn't going to do it and froze them to zero, and then the CPI went up 2.9; thus, the law skipped, there was a loss of purchasing power of 2.9. [[Applauds]] That is why reasonable things must be done. Your Honor, yes, we have made reforms, but I will recall what you did in 2011, which I have to say that I do not propose any changes; that is what Podemos proposes, those of 2011 and 2013, you only those of 2013, I none. I think we have to look forward and that everything is questionable in this life, but they took steps in the right direction. You raised the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven; the years to be taken into account in calculating the retirement pension were increased from fifteen to twenty-five years; as for the rules for determining the amount of the pension, before thirty-five years was entitled to one hundred per cent, now it has risen to thirty-seven; you introduce the sustainability factor with a kick forward, towards 2027. Well, I am not in favour of changing these reforms and therefore there will be no initiative from our group here. But history shows that it is good to make reforms, if I already know that governments always have to assume one more responsibility, but that does not mean that I cannot ask in this House and say that it is positive, sensible and reasonable that in the Toledo Pact we are able to reach an understanding. Its only proposals are to liquidate the sustainability factor and to liquidate the change we have made from indexation to CPI. Regarding the second, I have already explained to you what you did in 2011 and the sustainability factor I have already reminded you that it was in the conclusions adopted by you in 2011. With absolute frankness, Mrs Robles, there are no more proposals; there are no proposals on your part, because this is: I am going to raise taxes... to whom? How? How much are you going to assume? That has to be explained. Wages? I can talk to you about wages. The minimum wage has risen by 8% last year, by 4 %, by 5 % next year and by 10 % the next year, and is not indexed to the CPI, it is agreed with trade union organisations and it takes account of the normal growth of the economy, which is what they do today in all the countries of the world, because indexing to the CPI in Europe exists in two countries, Belgium and Hungary, in the European Union the only two countries. And the same happened with the agreement that the government has recently reached with the public service unions, there are significant increases for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, important even more than the CPI, but they are not indexed to the CPI, they go to economic growth. [[Applauds]] You need to catch up because indexing to the IPC doesn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is questionable that other speakers, flat rates, bonuses, have also raised this; flat rates and bonuses can certainly be reviewed. I believe that at a very difficult time for Spain they were useful, they helped self-employed workers, they helped SMEs and helped increase membership and social security contributions and, therefore, they were useful to pay pensions. Therefore, Mrs Robles, I say this frankly, I have not seen, and believe me, I am sorry, any constructive contribution to how the pension model should work in the future. There has been much criticism, and it has also criticized the use of the Social Security Reserve Fund by the Government, as I will explain it to you. This fund was agreed upon in the Toledo Pact in 1995, and this fund was then created by the People's Party as part of the Government because we had agreed in 1995. This fund was not provided with any funding in the years 2008 and 2009, I do not know what the reason was and for what purpose these amounts should be used in the fund. And then the bottom is and serves the model extraordinarily. What's the bottom for? In times of difficulty, to be able to pay pensions. And that's what we did, we used the Reserve Fund, of course. You, for example, did not do so in 2011, frozen pensions simply, had sufficient resources in the Reserve Fund and did not want to use them. Why did they do it? I guess someone probably had to go to Europe and they said to him: This perverse dynamic of public deficit generation that in the end does not lead to economic and employment growth is over. We use the Reserve Fund for what it is. If not, when are we going to use it? If we do not use the Reserve Fund at the time of the greatest economic crisis in history, can anyone explain to me when to use the Reserve Fund? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is about balancing the system. At present, the government deficit has already fallen from 9.3% to 3.1%. How are we going to balance the system? By generating employment, we are already taking steps in the right direction. I have already said before, and I repeat now, that when we arrived at the Government for every pensioner who entered the system, three social security contributors stopped contributing because they lost their jobs. Today it is the other way around, for every pensioner who enters the system, six workers enter social security contributions. That is what will allow us in the future to balance the system, maintain it and improve it and, in fact, it is already noted in the data, in the collection. I have also referred earlier to this matter. While pension growth is 3 %, this year the contribution growth was close to 6 %. And what do we have to do besides trying to achieve economic balance? So what we have to do are reforms, economic reforms to generate more jobs - I referred to them in my first speech - and also reforms in the Toledo Pact, which, I insist, are crucial in trying to overcome the serious problems that we still face in our country. I shall now reply to Mr Iglesias' speech. Your Honor, I agree, because it would be absurd not to be, with your initial statements. That it is not reasonable to discuss this issue, I agree. I would like to see a consensus on it. That there are things that cannot be called into question, I also agree, for example, with pensions, of course, I have said so and repeated it to the point of satiety in my first intervention. That they should be guaranteed, is that they are, Mr. Churches, I say they are. I also agree with your good feelings. If I already know, if everyone, you and I, and the vast majority of those in this House, have in our pension families and we know that there are pensions that are very low and we want to raise them and we could agree here to raise them by 10%, all, or 25%, but the problem is not that, as well, the problem is that we need to know what the right policy is to be able to improve that pension system. Because from there, Mr. Churches, I agree on very few things with you, very few. You have no history, you have never ruled, you can criticise what you want, you can afford what is right, you can affirm here that you will fix the world and there will be those who will surely believe you, I do not, of course, because I know what approaches defend the ideologies you like, but I will only give you two data: the models you have targeted in recent times and the European rescue. The Spanish, not me, had to fight very hard to avoid the European rescue and I will tell you what we got rid of because countries that failed to do so had reductions of around 30% - listen to me, eh? - in pensions with more than twenty-five years of contributions; reduction of the minimum pension by 30%; cuts in pensions for new retirees by between 12% and 20%; reductions of up to an additional 18% in tax deductions and public pensions, general cut of 10%. These reductions were made at the worst moments of the crisis in three countries in our environment that you know very well. Man, some merit has the Spanish people, who were able to win that battle and who were able to turn pensions, even slightly up, into the only game that went up! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with complete frankness: I did not like your proposals; or I did not understand them well. Raise the minimum wage. Okay. We're on it. Never in history did the minimum wage rise as much as with the governments of the People's Party. So clear. Labour reform. Well, look, labour reform I believe - I have already told your colleague Mrs Robles earlier - that it has been very positive for Spain, in fact it has produced very good results; in fact jobs are being created. Hey!, and many study services, many public institutions, many other countries, say that the reform of the labour market in Spain was a reform that walked in the right direction and some other countries in our environment, shortly afterwards, made similar decisions. It's very good about the banks. Okay. But the pension model is EUR 140 billion a year and there are eight banks. Yeah, we can get the guy up to 30 or 38 percent. All right, with that, yes, we can spend money; if we ruin them and they leave us without credit, we'll all have a problem. But, look, the pension system isn't fixed by raising taxes to the banks. I know it looks very nice and that some people can believe it, but allow me, as President of the Government, to say that I am not going to believe it. And the same goes for tax hikes. We have a level of tax in Spain that perhaps seems very low to you but to others it does not seem so low. Okay. I think we have to balance the income, what people are asked to do, the needs of others. That is to govern and believe me that it is not easy to know where the line that separates the just from the unjust is, for it is very complicated; but for that we are the political leaders. In short, Mr Iglesias, I cannot agree with your proposals. He made reference in his speech - I have heard the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group - to the increase in public expenditure. Look, the governorship can't consist of an auction or a race to see who's asking for more spending or who's asking for more pay, salaries, everything. It just doesn't work that way. It is that you, in the time that we have been through this legislature, have presented initiatives worth EUR 63 billion. If this House had approved its initiatives amounting to EUR 63 billion, which in addition to those of other groups were already at EUR 82.5 billion - you have been the most active in demanding money - I assure you that Spain would break. I'm telling you, I'd break it. And I'm telling you with absolute peace of mind. Because the state spending ceiling is 119 billion. If we add to those 119,000 the 63,000 that you want, hey, we're not going anywhere! That's not how it works! To govern you have to say that here there are these revenues and here there are these expenses, you can try to raise the revenues, but I can assure you that if you raise the revenues by 63 billion euros, Spain is broken and the crisis that we have overcome would be a joke next to which we would come. Fortunately, I am absolutely convinced that this will never happen. [[Applauds]] I shall now reply to Mr Rivera's intervention. I share his words about pensioners, about their efforts, about their value, about what helped those who were not during the crisis. I share your wishes, too. Okay. And I share, in short - others have not done so - and that has probably generated a criticism, that it has not been aimed at the general auction. I have made proposals for the future of pensions. I have said that none of the reforms that have been made in the Toledo Pact should be reformed, the first proposal. I have said, secondly - and I think it is important - that we should continue to work on the Toledo Pact, that we should adopt new recommendations and that those recommendations should become proposals and bills. That is also what Mr Campuzano said in his speech. Thirdly, I have said that it is very important to continue to generate employment in order to achieve budgetary balance and, in addition to achieving budgetary balance, to be able to maintain and improve the system. I pointed out in my first speech - it has not been very successful - some policies that I thought it was important to apply in the future for these purposes. Therefore, those are my proposals. It is only my proposals, but I would like to be able to share them with you, with whomever you want, in order to try to build for the future and to send a message of even greater tranquility to our pensioners. You've been talking about the pension hedge. If we do not use the pension fund when 3,800,000 jobs are lost in Spain, we never use it. We can say this hut is never used. I believe that, as I said before, we have used the pension fund at the time of the biggest economic crisis in Spain. You say that I say that the system is going well but that every year we have an expenditure, an automatic growth of 38 billion, and it is true. As I said in my first intervention, this year, although the revaluation was zero, the expenditure increased by 38 billion, but I think we are now moving in the right direction, so I also said earlier: to the extent that employment continues to be generated, contribution income increases more, and already in 2017, for the first time in the whole crisis, contribution income increases more than pension expenditure. That's what we have to aim for, what has happened in 2017 will happen in 2018, 2019 and 2020, and that's only if there are more jobs and better level and category, which is one of the issues to which you have referred. Indeed, I agree that we wish we had many better jobs, but also, as in so many things in life, there is not a magic wand that solves all the problems in a quarter of an hour. Soon, we are creating jobs at a level of more than 500,000 jobs a year when we have been destroying jobs for many years. Therefore, that is already a positive fact. Job creation is already the first and most important positive factor. Then there's another data that we can't forget either. The contracted persons who have an indefinite contract in Spain are 73%. These are much more than those in the middle of the economic boom, when the rate was above 62%. Therefore, it is 73%. That we'd all like it to be more? Obviously, but of course we are also taking steps in the same direction. Job creation in recent years has occurred mainly among full-time workers and 97% of the jobs we have recovered from the crisis have been full-time. There is another fact that must also encourage us to work for the future: full-time indefinite recruitment grows year-on-year - i.e. every year - at a rate of 16.4%. Therefore, we have to persevere in this, which I already know is important. I already know that training and education are important and that wages are improved, although there are things that cannot be done in the midst of the crisis; but now they can be done and that is why this agreement has been reached on public employees in our country with trade union organizations. The objective is therefore clear, but work must also be done to take steps in the right direction. You have made some proposals that I agree with. I had referred to them in my first speech: I agree with the IRPF of pensioners, I also agree with the IRPF of families and I also agree - and I have stated this - with the increase in widow's pensions and minimum pensions. And I think that all this should be discussed and discussed when we present here the General Budgets of the State because we will have an overview, so we will know what the revenue is and what the expenditure is. If we devote more to these expenses, we will devote less to these and, if we want to devote less to these expenses and these, we will have to raise revenues, but, I insist, I agree with that general approach. Finally, as regards what happened in 2011, I have only said one thing. In 2011 I came up to this rostrum, Mr Rivera, I said that things were very difficult, that we were going to have to cut public spending a lot, and that there would be two items that we were not going to reduce: pensions and unemployment. Honestly, I think I did what I said at the time. [[Applauds]] And I say this by being aware that there is still a lot of work to be done to create jobs and that there is still a lot of work to be done to have a pension system in which we can feel safer, but what I want to say to you is that you are walking in the right direction, and if we are able to reach a minimum understanding I think it will be better for us all and, above all, it will be better for the whole country. The spokesman for Esquerra Republicana has begun his intervention by stating - I absolutely agree; I answer this because I think it is my duty to answer it - that pensions are not government pensions. Indeed, I know that the pensions of those who receive them at the moment are paid by Spanish workers with their contributions and also with their taxes, because with taxes pensions are paid in the amount of 14 billion euros, and the rest, which are the contributory pensions fundamentally - widowhood and orphanhood, as you know very well - are paid with the contributions of the people. It's okay for me to listen to people. Believe me, I listen to people. I do not know whether so much, more, equal or less than you, but I am absolutely sure that I know perfectly well the problems that exist in our country and many of the problems that citizens are experiencing. I am not going to repeat what I told your colleagues about the pension fund a short time ago. He told me about the balance. At the moment the system is not in equilibrium, but, as I said before, what is being collected from social security contributions is getting closer to the pensions that are being paid, and I am convinced that in a very short time, especially if the level of recruitment in Spain continues to improve, they will be in equilibrium. I would like in the future to be in surplus to replenish the pension fund. He made a reference to private pension funds. I am a strong supporter of the public pension system, but I think it is absolutely compatible with private pension funds. To that extent it is compatible and to that extent it is shared that these private pension funds have already existed for thirty years. They are not mandatory and the only reform we have done in recent times is to allow those who have a private pension fund who, instead of waiting at the retirement age to collect it, can collect it at the age of ten. There are 8.5 million people in Spain who have decided to save because they wanted to. We cannot deprive those people of their savings capacity and I think it is good that they have a reasonable tax treatment, but this has nothing to do with the public pension system, which is certainly another battle and certainly also the most important one. He referred to social spending in Spain. This is a debate that is repeated every two by three in this House, even today we have heard some intervener, representing the Joint Group, referring to the increase in expenditure in all but social expenditure. Look, that's smooth and plainly not true. 29.6 of the total Spanish public expenditure is social expenditure because they are pensions; 14.3 of the total Spanish public expenditure is social expenditure because it is health, the second item; the third is 9.5, education, which is social expenditure; the fourth, 8.5, is other social expenditure, because in Spain there are more than 14 million - including pensioners as I told you before - that every month they receive a benefit, and 4.2 that is devoted to unemployment is social expenditure. We are talking about 65% of expenditure - it can be a year 64 and another year 66 - which is, believe me, above many of the countries in our environment. Your honor says I said there's no money. No; there wasn't before, but now there's beginning to be. What it is about is to avoid that by making the wrong policies we go back to the previous situation, we have no money and we have to lower all the items except pensions and unemployment. That's what it's about when economic policies are made. He also spoke about the minimum wage and indexation. I believe that I have already defended these positions and also talked about the agreement on the salaries of officials. Mr Esteban intervened on behalf of the Basque Nationalist Party. I wish there was an agreement. Believe me, I work for it, and if it's about getting consensus back, here I am on the front line to try. We've only made two decisions. One, the non-indexation of pensions. We could have done what the previous ones did, which did not change it and simply froze it and lost 2.9% of purchasing power, but we thought this was most reasonable, because - as I said earlier - it is the general rule that they are applying throughout Europe, only two countries of the Union, Belgium and Hungary, still pose it. This is an issue that will undoubtedly have to be negotiated and discussed in the Toledo Pact. The second change we made was the sustainability factor, which was already in the 2011 recommendations, although by 2027. I have made proposals, Mr Esteban, and I do not know if it makes sense to repeat them: first, not to reform anything from 2011 or 2013. I don't think it makes any sense, I'm telling you, and the 2011 ones I didn't do, none of them. Then we do not vote, and I will explain later to Mr Campuzano why. Therefore, the first is not to make reforms, not to throw down what has already been done. The second is to continue working - I will not repeat it - on employment with the policies I have announced. Thirdly, it would be very good to start moving from recommendations to proposals. There are some issues that seem to me to be of priority today: closing the structural deficit of Social Security in a few years; trying to reconcile an improvement of pensions, especially the lowest ones, with the balance of the system; proposals to improve widow's pensions; proposals to move forward in the fight against fraud, which undermines the resources of the Social Security system, and proposals to promote active ageing, such as progress in the compatibility of pensions. I believe that these issues are urgent and that it would not be very difficult to reach an understanding of them. The goal, as you have said, is to maintain the system and to ensure that there are decent perceptions. I believe that the system that we have right now, with the reforms that life is advising us to implement, has a future. I am optimistic about the future system in our country, I am optimistic, because I see that the data, as far as things are concerned, help us. I repeat what I told you before: I was not optimistic when I find myself in 2011 that a pensioner enters the system and suddenly I see that three people lose their jobs, there are three less to quote. But now there are already many more contributors than people who enter the system, and although people fortunately live more and even though people who enter the system receive higher pensions because they have contributed more and that is more expense, I think this will be compensated in excess of what I have just said. Before I spoke, in response to another speaker, about bonuses and exemptions. Undoubtedly, these are topics that can be discussed. We have launched them with the only priority objective of creating jobs. In politics, as in any facet of life, we would like to do many things and all at once, but I believe that one of the most important obligations a ruler has is to prioritize. We have established as the first priority, already since 2011, creating employment, because this is the only way to recover the economy, that people are better and that we can increase the state's revenue. [[Applauds]] I agree with what you said about complementary systems. Complementary systems, as you know better than I do, are used in many European countries. There are European countries of the great, of the important, of which they have many more inhabitants than us and also much more GDP which have a maximum pension that does not reach 1000 euros. There are such countries with different models. I'd like them as a complementary model. I think ours is a model, and that's where I agree with you in the complementary model. As for unilateral decisions, yes, we have made unilateral decisions, but it was very difficult in the years 2012 and 2013 not to make unilateral decisions. I'm telling you with absolute frankness. In the situation where we were or were making unilateral decisions... We also assume unilaterally all the burden of taking them, but when you are in the Government you have to try to do what the general interest advises you to do. And outside the partisan struggle, of course, I agree. I now respond to Mr. Campuzano, spokesman for the PDeCat. The advantages and goodness of the Toledo Pact I share with you and also you have been working here for a long time on this issue and, therefore, I know you well. Now, I would like you to give me fair treatment; it is not that I have been given discriminatory treatment, but it is unfair. It reminds me of what happened in 2011, that the Government approves a reform and the People's Party votes against it. Then it is the People's Party's fault to vote against the 2011 reform. But in 2013 the People's Party is submitting a reform, voting against it, and in that case those who vote against it are not to blame, the Government is also to blame. You will understand that that is not very equitable, especially when in 2011 the reform of the PSOE came out with the support of a group - which I don't know if you know - which was then called Convergence i Unió, and the People's Party voted the recommendations, which has not been done on this occasion, but did not vote the proposals because it did not agree with them. Just as we did not vote for the decisions that the previous President of the Government presented to us here in 2010 because we found out right here. I agree with the consensus, but I do not agree with indexing. Believe me, that's already discarded everywhere, in any facet, in any income policy. [[Mr. Campuzano i Canadés makes negative signs]] Yes, yes; I'm sure you're right about many things, but I have it at least in those I say because I try to document myself, among other things because it's my obligation. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví has made some criticisms of the words I said at the beginning of the morning, as is customary and the whole House knows. I don't know where you get that there's a lot of money for arms and there's no money for pensions. If you compare the 2011 spending budget with the 2018 spending budget you will see that the only items that have risen between 2011 and 2018 are social protection items. All expenditure has risen by EUR 2 billion and social protection by around EUR 18 billion or EUR 19 billion. I don't remember right now, I had the file, but I had to stay in my seat. When I arrived in 2011 - you were here - I said that there were two games I wasn't going to play and that they were going to be the only ones where I wasn't going to lower the budget: unemployment and pensions. And I have fulfilled it, Mr. Baldoví. The rest of the budget items have dropped, which is a drama, because at the moment the government I chair - its ministries - spends less than in 2007, and that is not good for Spain either, because infrastructure policies, agricultural policies, security policies or internal policies are very important. But what you say is not true. Social spending in Spain is important. We have a welfare model that sometimes surprises me how some people understand it. It's to be proud. You guys go out there and see what's there. [[Applauds]] Can we improve it? Yes, but there are other policies to attend to. Mrs Bildu, I understand that you don't have much time to put forward your proposals, but we don't know what you want to reform, we don't know what policy you want to implement, we don't know what proposals you think are going to serve to make this pension system better and better. All we know is we have to get them up, but that's very easy to say. How much? What do we want? Five, ten, fifteen? We also know that the Reserve Fund has been used, but you said that the Reserve Fund should only be used to pay pensions. Look, I just used it to pay pensions. What do you think the Reserve Fund is used for? I do not know if others have done anything else, I do not know, but I certainly have to say that the Government has only used it for that purpose. He said something that is very good: good words don't feed. I can agree, but I would add something: good words don't feed, but, listen, good words are always better than bad words, they always end up generating better atmosphere. [[Applauds]] Above all, I agree that what needs to be done is good policies. I do agree with that. Mr Alli, constructive attitudes are necessary - and I agree - both in the area of pensions and education, if we are to reach an autonomous financing pact, in the area of water or to approve budgets. That's exactly the case, but you have to deal with what's there; if you persevere, you can try to change what's there and be sure that I'm going to persevere, so I can also achieve some positive result. But, as you know, in this life there are more complicated things, others that get complicated and others that are difficult to grade. In any case, I agree with the two statements that you have made: one, on the income tax for individuals referring to lower pensions, and the other, on dedicating everything that exceeds economic growth, that is, the collection, to what is paid in pensions, to the Reserve Fund. Be absolutely certain that these two commitments I take up because they seem very sensible and very reasonable to me. Mr Martínez Oblanca has raised three issues. He referred to the importance of birth. It is important that there are people who work and co-pay, because just as there are now people who are paying the pensions of the elderly, the elderly today paid it to the generation before them. That is the social security solidarity system and there will therefore be measures for families. I absolutely agree - and I have said this on several occasions throughout this intervention - that job creation is crucial so that we can talk about a good pension system. Talking to trade unions and business people can come to an understanding. I've been able to sign some agreements. The Government has reached agreements on the salaries of public security officials, including the other civil servants and the minimum wage. Without a doubt, this is an issue that we are also addressing in the framework of the social dialogue. I share and think it is reasonable what Mrs Oramas said in favour of the CPI, at least with regard to the lowest. I referred in my speech to that comment. I agree with what you have said and let us see what measures we can take in relation to Venezuela. See, in Venezuela inflation is 3000 %. Indeed, there is a lot of canary in Venezuela and also a lot of people of Galician origin, a lot and, therefore, I think very reasonable the statement you have just made. Mr Quevedo said that there is no good recipe for the crisis. Probably the best recipe is that there is no crisis, but I'm afraid that comes later. Therefore, I take it that there is no good recipe for the crisis, although the worst recipe is not to have it. The government has had a recipe, which I understand is questionable, but it has had it: it has raised pensions little, less than we would have liked, but several of the years in which little has risen, inflation was negative. I think I remember that it was in 2014, 2015 and 2016, not in 2017, and the fact that it is negative, without a doubt, does less harm. There is a second part of the recipe that is important, that we have not frozen them, fulfilling our commitment. We said we'd keep social spending and we did it. From there, it is a question of working intensively for the generation of employment. That is the economic policy that you know we are carrying out and that we intend to maintain in the future. It is true that the letter that has been sent to the Spanish pensioners is a letter that no one would have liked to receive. I understand it perfectly and I can understand what the people who received it could feel, but you also know that it is an obligation that sets us the law. In any case, I will make sure that that obligation that marks us by the law ends up being a little more personal and less harsh than the one that so many Spaniards have received. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u61	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, today in your speech you highlighted what we already knew: a paralyzed government, a government without ideas, a government without proposals. I do not know how you are not in a hurry to say that you have made a proposal here today to those pensioners who do not arrive at the end of the month, to those pensioners who, as a result of their policies, are receiving pensions of two or three euros a month, who are going to lose purchasing power. What you have done to us has been proposed in a very large way, referring to the General Budgets of the State, ironically and arrogantly, Mr Rajoy. You think everything's going well, but it's because it doesn't go out on the street. Get out on the street, talk to the pensioners. It is very regrettable that you have come here in the process of replying to the parliamentary groups. Don't go to the parliamentary groups, go to the pensioners. You are not able to do so because you can hardly look them in the face after the proposals you made here today. [[Applauds]] Do you think it is reasonable that the people who have to pay for pharmaceuticals, who have the medicine, who have an increase - as I said before - of two or three euros, who have to keep their children, women with a pension gap of 38%, should now tell them that they are going to raise minimum pensions? But how much, Mr. Rajoy? You say something because you haven't said anything. He says the IRPF is going down. But how, when, who? To those pensioners who have the highest pensions? Don't fool us with widow's pensions. He says he's going to raise them, but forced by law, after six years he hasn't increased the pay base. [[Applauds]] Frankly, Mr. Rajoy, it's not serious. You talk about consensus, you talk about the Toledo Pact, of course you have to talk about it all, but what did your parliamentary group do yesterday when all the other groups asked you to revalue the work of the Toledo Pact? Vote against. That's what he's done. Simply, you cannot have as much arrogance as your Government has. We are talking about nine million people who have contributed with their efforts to the situation that Spain is now experiencing of economic growth. Do not speak - which seems to live in the tunnel of time - of the past, speak of the present. Your balance sheet is a structural deficit of 1.6% of gross domestic product, and as far as management goes, EUR 80 billion, you say. [[applause]] As for the Reserve Fund, you say that we had to touch it, that's what it was for. What are we left with? It turns out that, as a result of your management, last year we had overcome the crisis; however, you have drawn from the Reserve Fund. [[Applauds]] But not only that, but also the state has had to make a loan to the Reserve Fund. What are we left with? Do we grow up because of your policy or not? Are we going to the Reserve Fund because there's no remedy or no remedy? We demand short-term measures, but not by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but by the pensioners, who go out on the street not because they want to, but because they can no longer. You can't do any more with your policies, Mr. Rajoy. We therefore ask you to proceed with the repeal of the 2013 reform. You say - let me tell you this - with a certain spread that has increased pensions. In 0,25 %? Do you think that's an increase? Do you think that pensioners in this country in 2018 can live with their increase when the consumer price index is going to rise by about 2%? Respect, Mr Rajoy, we ask you to respect the pensioners. We can't go on with a situation like this. If you don't see yourself able to rule, make proposals, go away, that's all right, but please don't go back to Moncloa today, as you are going to do, without facing the pensioners of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u63	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, this morning you have read a role and in your reply speech you have basically repeated that Spain could not go better, that the situation is excellent. I don't know if you wonder why you're showing up here today or why the pensioners in this country have gone out on the streets if the situation is so excellent. This morning, in response to a wave of social concern and mobilizations, he proposed two patches, but the pensioners in Spain have a very serious flaw: they know how to count, they know how to make numbers. They count and, as they count, begin to tell what the light costs them, what the gas costs them, what they struggle to fill the refrigerator and what they struggle to help their children, and precisely because they know how to count, they mobilize and say to the government: Don't take our hair. Why do you think the pensioners went out on the street? Basically, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, because they can count. [[Applauds]] When there's a constitutional warrant, there's no excuse. You say: I don't know where there is money. Don't worry that we say this to you: EUR 2 billion to rescue the motorways - that's why the pensions were updated this year -, EUR 60 billion not recovered from bail-out to the banks, the deductions from private pension plans, which amount to EUR 2 billion, or the unconstitutional tax amnesty of his minister, Mr Montoro, which would also serve to secure pensions. There's the money. And you said something very curious. He said: You have proposed measures in this House that would cost EUR 60 billion. What a coincidence, exactly the same amount you gave the banks of this country. [[Applauds]] I thank him for giving us the reason, because recognizing that it would cost EUR 60 billion to do what needs to be done in this country, he admits, firstly, that you have led this country to bankruptcy in terms of pensions and, secondly, that with EUR 60 billion recovered from the banks, the social policies that Spain needs could have been done. You say that you do not like our proposals and that if we ruled, the ten plagues of Egypt would come. I'll give you some data, because where we govern the debt is reduced. Madrid City Council: the debt has been reduced by 28%; the Community of Madrid - where you govern - has increased the debt by 8%. [[Applauds]] And in the municipalities where we govern is generated surplus, that surplus where Mr. Montoro - who is very active in the blue bank - likes to put his hand to square the accounts that you are not able to square. The problem is that you handle Spain's accounts exactly as well as your party's. [[Applauds]] There is an agreement that we should take in this House, and we are prepared to reach that agreement with the political forces that are necessary. If we agree, we can get this Congress of Deputies to legislate for pensions to be updated to the CPI, as is the case in all countries around us. It is a matter of political will and we are ready. Finally, you said your spokesman, Mr Rajoy - I quote literally -: Mobilizations and banners are useless. That generation that has gone out to the streets claiming their right to a pension is the one that brought democracy to this country with banners and mobilizations. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] More respect for mothers and fathers, grandmothers and grandparents who brought democracy. That generation next Saturday is going to be mobilizing in the streets of our country, and we are going to be with them and with them, because we are proud of our grandparents and grandmothers and of our parents. Me for them, mother, and them for me. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u65	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u66	Thank you, Madam President. In this brief time I shall be referring to five matters, the first, precariousness. It is true, Mr Rajoy, the data you gave on precariousness, but we have a problem: that we double the European average in precariousness, and you are the President of the Government and you are not concerned. I think this should be almost the main obsession of this government, and not only have less unemployment, because, careful, we are at 16%, well above the European average, and Spain is the most unemployed country in Europe alongside Greece. What I do not understand - I say it again - is triumphalism, why 16% unemployment or that 9 out of 10 contracts during his term are garbage to throw rockets? This is the problem of this Government, which creates triumphalism of failures. I ask you, Mr Rajoy, more humility, less triumphalism and let us talk about the reform that Citizens have proposed to fight against precariousness. As long as we do not fight precariousness we will continue with low contributions and with waste employment. The main source of income for decent pensions - I repeat - are decent wages. Wage is not raised by decree. I do not believe in the formula of raising wages by decree, I believe that wages rise when you have competitiveness, productivity and especially when there is stability in employment. The second point, Mr Rajoy, is the pension fund. You say - with a part of reason - that how we won't use the hatchet if we've had a very fat crisis. Yes, but the country is growing at 3% of GDP and we are still empty. That's the problem, that's why we're probably debating here, because people don't see the future. [[Applauds]] Therefore, in a country that is growing to 3% of GDP, which still has 40% youth unemployment, where 9 out of 10 jobs are garbage and where there is 16% average unemployment, can we really throw rockets? Are we really going to tell people that everything's okay? I believe that we must be much more humble and propose to the Spanish reforms of the future, not only for today's pensioners, but for tomorrow's pensioners: those who are working today and think that their political leaders or their deputies are thinking about the future. The problem is that this debate has basically dealt with the present and very little has been said about the future, and I want to address the Spaniards, who have certainly not seen this debate today because they are working, because they are taking their children to school, because they have to lift the blind every day, and tell them that we are going to take care of having pensions in the future, and not just discussing a euro, 2 euros or 4 euros of the pensions present. [[Applauds]] The third point, Mr Rajoy, is the IRPF. I was asking Mrs. Robles how it is done to lower the IRPF. I would like to explain to you, Mrs Robles, very easily: we only need political will, we need to square the accounts and we need to negotiate the budgets, which the Socialist Party does not do, it does not square the accounts, and it does not sit down and negotiate the budgets. [[Applauds]] Citizens, unlike the PSOE, which has decided to take power, we have decided to be responsible, and we are going to negotiate budgets with an IRPF drop - I suppose this will also please many voters of your party; I imagine, because this should not go in political colors -, with a tax drop to those who do not arrive at the end of the month. Does it not seem to you progressive, does it not seem to you that those who cannot pay for the light, nor those medicines that you have said or the water, that those who have difficulties have 60 euros more in their pocket? What's the PSOE's concern about that tax drop? [[Applauds]] And yes, I am telling you, it is going to be a condition, among others, to support the budgets, because we must be useful to the Spaniards, not useless. So what is useful now is to negotiate budgets, lower taxes, equal pay for police officers, paternity permits, support for families with children. That's what's useful. If anyone wants to rule his country in the future, he has to do things for his country before ruling it. And if you see the polls and the election results of Citizens - don't get nervous - it's simply the result that the Spaniards expect someone to talk about the future, not just with demagogy, not just to wear down the government. We must make sensible policies for the Spanish to have a future. On the fourth point, birth, there has been little talk, in my opinion. We have made some proposals in this regard. I repeat again, stay with that image: do you imagine a country without children? Can you imagine a country with a future with few children? Can you imagine a country where there is no incentive to have children or parents have difficulties? Well, let's do budget stuff, yeah. For example, in paternity permits we have already changed the policy of recent years in recent budgets and Citizens demanded two more weeks. Today in some autonomous communities many parents are using for the first time more paternity leave than maternity leave. That's a pride because it means that many young parents want to be, of course, with their children and want to be co-responsible for their families, and surely if it's five weeks, Mr Montoro, better than four, and surely if you keep the investiture pact you will still be many more weeks after the end of the legislature. But tax incentives must also be introduced, of course. Either we're extraterrestrials or we've all been through this or everyone will know what it costs to pay for a child education or a day care center. You know how much it costs, don't you? Do you think the people who don't arrive at the end of the month have enough? Citizens propose 1000 euros with this negative tax in the pocket of the Spaniards to pay the children's children's school. Isn't this a sensible and useful policy for many parents? [[Applauds]] So let's talk more about the future, let's talk about increasing contributions with quality jobs, with more people incorporated into the world of work with quality jobs. Finally, I would like to make a point to Mrs Robles - she is not here now, but she has said it before -. I don't know what the PSOE has against the self-employed. He said be careful with these bonus formulas and flat rates for the self-employed. What do you have against the self-employed, if you voted in favour of that flat fare that was in the Citizens' Law? What do you have against it? Is it wrong for those who create jobs to have a flat rate? [[Applauds]] That old dichotomy between you from the class struggle of the 19th century I think is out of fashion. In the twenty-first century the self-employed are workers and entrepreneurs, and they play their home and ask for loans, and, by the way, with that law, many self-employed mothers have two years of bonus in that flat rate to be mothers and self-employed. [[Applauds]] So, I ask the PSOE for the umpteenth time to come out of populism, come to negotiate budgets, support sensible measures for self-employed people and workers. The government - I finish, President - simply ask that, in addition to triumphalisms, that in addition to thinking about the present, let us think more about the future. I don't know whether this government wants to think about the future or not, I don't know whether they think they're going to be in the future, but that's the least. The important thing is that this country has a future and has to have a country project, beyond the bargain, beyond the euro rising or falling. I believe that this debate, if it has anything to do with the Spanish, is to tell them that in the Toledo Pact, and not - we agree - we need to talk about proposals for the future. If we talk about birth, the fight against precariousness, the reduction of taxes to those who do not arrive at the end of the month, Citizens will be at that table leading and accompanying the rest of the groups. If we continue in the simply populist debate, burning parliamentary coexistence, trying to say: 'and you more', but when you get to the government you block the same reforms, I think bipartisanism has shown that the box is empty, bipartisanism has shown that there is no reform of the future and a new time comes when we have to make proposals of the future. So, President, if you want to take the reform glove, here we are. If you want to continue in the old dichotomy of bipartisanship, we offer the Spaniards an alternative project for the future. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u67	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u68	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, I appreciate the tone but not the background, so we are in different games, I would even say in the antipodes. That the Kingdom of Spain is a social and democratic state of law, we begin by doubting it a little bit. Less and less of a law; in Spain there are political prisoners, exiles, people who can walk freely through Europe, but not through the Kingdom of Spain. It also says it is democratic, but it does not solve the main problems in a democratic way and, finally, it says it is social, and this pillar seems to me to be staggering as well. If we continue with the content of its Constitution, its article 31.1 tells us that all will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure according to their economic capacity, through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness; and then in its article 41 it also says that the public authorities will maintain a public social security system for all citizens that guarantees adequate social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need. And this is not the case because not everyone contributes as they should nor is sufficient assistance and benefits guaranteed at least with this new rate of revaluation of the 2013 reform in the future. That's what the streets are shouting and they'll be screaming again on the streets on March 17, in all cities and towns. There is a growing feeling that you are not fulfilling your most elementary obligations as the Government of the social, democratic and legal State. This perception is no longer just a perception given in Catalonia, where there are only four Members left, it is an oil stain that spreads. You say you listen, but I don't think so, I don't think so. It seems to me that it doesn't matter if millions of pensioners go out on the street or if millions of Catalans ask peacefully and democratically to want to vote, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter; you go on with your plan. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u69	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u70	But this doesn't save you from reason. Do you know what's saving you from reason, Mr. Rajoy? Do you know what you're saving, Mr. Rajoy? He is saving - now I address Margarita Robles, the spokesman of the PSOE - that this party here does not dare to make a motion of censure, because in the Chamber they add up. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] It is saving you from not dialogue Socialist Party and We can because you know that you would count on the votes of Republican Left of Catalonia, because I remind you that Republican Left of Catalonia has never, ever, ever voted to your right in this House. Left Republican will never vote any law, no proposition that goes against the working class. Where's the problem? Why don't you agree? If they agreed, the right - in some case the extreme right - and the populists here in front would go to the opposition and the nonsense would be over. Here it was over, and we'd start to have another alternative. [[Applauds]] So agree, it's not that hard and, if not, explain why they don't. Mr. Rajoy, even the bunkers who thought they were stronger at the end fall, and on the 17th there will be a lot of people on the streets. I ask you to listen and look at what is failing in the Constitution, what is failing in the democratic, the social and the legal aspects, because it seems to me that there is a cry from many people and I sincerely think that it is still in time to improve it. That's what I think. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we do think that there is a risk in the system if we do not make reforms, unlike the security you have by relying everything on employment alone. I am not going to deny you anything: it is evident the dramatic situation in 2011 and 2012, the loss of employment, how the economy was, the threat of European intervention, etc. I believe that consensus could also have been sought at that time, but you had an absolute majority and made quick decisions. Well, it happened and it happened, but let's get back to consensus, because that was out of the Toledo Pact. Returning to consensus is going backwards in the 2013 Act. Let us go now also to reassure citizens to apply the CPI, which will be slightly less than that 2 billion, and from there let us seek a new consensus, let us seek a new rate of revaluation in which there is agreement and let us discuss everything. Because, moreover, it is true that the CPI only has it Belgium and Hungary, but it is an important part of the reference stock exchange along with wages and other factors such as GDP in the vast majority of other European countries. You praise the agreement, but you refuse to rectify it. He said, "Don't back down on any reform." Then in another intervention he said: Do not reverse the agreements of the Toledo Pact. Look, the decisions on which there is an absolute dissension in this House are precisely those that you have taken unilaterally. You guys take that step back. I ask you for flexibility, which now does not deny that there is no money, there is a certain margin, and I ask you to gain some social tranquility, parliamentary tranquility and, from there, let us actually build the model. You say that for every new pensioner there are, there have been 6 new contributors. I don't get the numbers, because then we had to go like a rocket. They will be temporary, with subsidized contracts, poorly paid and it is in 2017 when the increase has begun. Total, which is posing it as a career, a career between the recovery of employment and the increase of pensioners. I remind you that within nothing we are those who are part of the baby boom of the sixties, a considerable party of people. I think that we cannot consider the future of the pension system this way: the economy is going to be fine, nothing needs to be reformed, we have to continue this way, knowing also that there is total uncertainty about these indices, about the index that is applied annually, but also about the index that is going to enter into force in 2019. We have to go further and we have to study it more and no patches are worth to fix that. That is not done, Mr President, with tax patches. I'm not saying we don't have to do some things, but, honestly, they're two different bags. Settle the one that has to be fixed, which is that of Social Security, and we will not solve patches and make arrangements that do not go to the bottom of the real problem using another bag, using what may be taxation or the same budgets. I think we need to fix the system. I know that you are thinking that the cost is not going to be spent - I imagine - that it does not increase the deficit and it is a kind of artifice to circumvent Europe, but, frankly, it is not acceptable in terms of the solution of the underlying problem; apart from the fact that as far as the IRPF is concerned, we will see how you want to articulate these compensations, which would only benefit some, those who can make an IRPF statement, and many other people would be left out. Of course, I think that we need to do something urgently with minimum pensions, widow's pensions, etc., that we have been demanding for a long time, but - I insist - the fundamental problem is that we have to tackle and not patch up. I would like to remind you - I am running out of time - that something I mentioned earlier, which is not only claimed by the Basque Nationalist Party, but also by the Basque Parliament itself for a decision - I am not going to say unanimously because its party did not agree, but the rest of the House did last week: the transfer of the competence of the management of the economic system of social security. It's the law, Mr. President, and the law must be enforced. I say it once again, and although we have been saying it for a long time, we reiterate it to you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u73	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the replies of the various groups. Nothing new under the sun, but I would like to conclude this speech by talking about data and facts, because this is what we have come to talk about in this House: data and facts, what has happened in recent years and what is ahead of us. That's why we can't avoid some things. Firstly, since 2011 there have been 700,000 more pensioners who have received their pensions and who have received new retirement pensions which are the highest. The average pension for all groups has risen, to 16% for retirement. The average monthly pension has risen 116 euros between 2011 and 2017 and is already set at 13 000 euros per year. The average retirement pension is 1071 euros per month, i.e. 148 euros more than they had when we arrived at the government. The number of maximum pensions has increased by two times from 191 000 to 450 000 pensioners. And the gender gap has been narrowed thanks to this Government's decision to improve the pensions of those women who were mothers and who did a great job of having the society we have today. [[Applauds]] Our tax reform has also allowed pensioners to pay less taxes today than ever before; and that has benefited 6 million pensioners. This is not triumphalism, Mr Rivera, it is the reality of data. Look, Mr. Churches, we respect the elderly and the best way to respect the elderly is to speak well of what you have done, not as you constantly do when you question what they have done in our transition process by bringing us the most evolved Constitution, one of the best in the world, and to conquer and make possible a social welfare system that exists not thanks to you, but despite you and thanks to what others have done for many years. [[Applauds]] So, look at you, you're not going to give me lessons of respect for the elderly. I respect the elderly, and also those who manifest themselves. Let me disagree with those who, through lies, seek to use the feelings of these elders to use them politically. This is what has unfortunately changed in recent years since actors like you are in Spanish politics. This is, by the way, what we have avoided or what we intend to avoid thanks to policies that are the ones that generate employment, well-being and prosperity; not those that you practice and apply, whose results you very well know the citizens of other countries. We have talked about Greece; we could talk about Portugal or also about Venezuela. [[Rumors and laughter]] With regard to your feelings, it is very good that you speak well of the municipalities, and of Madrid. You are very concerned about the price of housing and in the municipalities of Barcelona and Madrid: record in the rise of housing for the younger ones and also of rents for the older ones. That is the real result of your policies!, not those you say or defend here in this House. [[Applauds]] Look, we have stepped up our attention to the elderly in vulnerable situations by allocating more than 200 million euros. We have consolidated active ageing in collaboration with Imserso and the third sector. We have approved the framework for action for older people with more than one hundred consensus entities. The dependency care system has been improved by designing a more just and supportive system that expands the services and services catalogue. We have allocated EUR 16 billion to dependency against the Socialist Government's EUR 11 billion. I already know what your initiatives are, Mr. Churches. Your initiatives for pensioners are to lower the retirement age to 61 years or 52 years, when a certain number of years have been reached; because you believe that by retiring people before, jobs are created. And that's just a lie. All that does is drown and suffocate the families of the workers more because it is the workers - I insist - who, with their contributions and with intergenerational solidarity, make our pension system viable. Mrs Robles, you've come back with 2 or 3 euros, and you're fine. We would like to raise pensions more, but I would ask you to be consistent, because when you're saying that you have to raise the CPI to pensions, do you know what that CPI rise in minimum pensions means? It amounts to EUR 1.12 - I repeat, EUR 1.12 -. Therefore, do not come here talking, defending or criticising measures when you have put forward a proposal that we did not vote for yesterday, which says that minimum pensions only have to rise EUR 1.12 next year. They're going to come up more with us, Mrs. Robles. [[Applauds]] I also say this to Mr. Iglesias, who sits silent from his seat. Ladies and gentlemen, a society that respects itself is a society that cares for and respects its elders. We have done so since the People's Party and we will continue to do so. We value our elders for what they are and for what they have been, for what they give us and for what they have given us, and we will never forget their courageous role during the crisis either when many had to become the main family pillar to bring their own forwards. Although pensioners have seen their income rise during the economic crisis, we know that pensions are only part of their protection system and that is why health care must be taken care of, dependency must be taken care of and the rest of social protection must be taken care of. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a great challenge: to consolidate our pension system, facing the debate from responsibility, knowledge and experience because, if there is a matter that, due to its significance and public, economic and social implications, both present and future, requires a broad consensus agreement, it is precisely that of pensions. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that having seen and heard from some groups this is going to be a very difficult task. I would like it not to be so and that some, in addition to trying to use the street to defend or proclaim banners, would also be able to come to the Toledo Pact Commission to provide solutions that truly benefit our elders. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to make my closing remarks brief. At first I will reply to the various speakers and then I will make a very brief - I repeat - account of what I think I have come up with today. Mrs Robles has frankly not contributed anything new, she has not contributed much, not even much, in her second speech, but I have heard you speak of paralysis, lack of ideas, lack of proposals, arrogance. With absolute frankness, I appreciate that you make self-criticism, because those things sometimes come well and feel better. [[Applause and laughter]] I am surprised, in any case, that I do, but I am even more surprised that I am reproaching myself for coming to this House to talk about pensions by addressing the parliamentary groups. Your Honor, when I come to this House - I understood that you too - I speak to the parliamentary groups as representatives - the 350 Members here - of national sovereignty. I therefore come to this House to speak to the Members, to speak to all the Spaniards - whom, as I said in my first speech, this is important to them - to speak to the people who are receiving a benefit today after many years of work and to speak to the people who are helping them to do it for them in the future. That is why I come to this House, because I care, Mrs Robles. None of your claims about purchasing power make any sense, because they made a law saying that pensions would not lose purchasing power, because you froze them by jumping the law, because you were about to cause the bankruptcy of our country, because you have destroyed the purchasing power of so many people for wrong economic policies. I do not discuss his good intentions, what I discuss with him are his economic policies and that they intend to return to economic policies that history has shown were harmful to Spain. The same thing happens when you talk to me about the structural deficit. If we find the 9.3 deficit, which was the sum of the deficit of all public administrations, including Social Security. If we had to make an extraordinary effort to reach the 3.1 in which we are. If next year we are expected to exit the excessive deficit procedure. If that deficit was the one that caused, together with the absence of reforms, the situation experienced by our young people, the people who went to unemployment, many self-employed, many employees and also many pensioners. Why are you telling me about the Reserve Fund if you didn't provide it in 2008 and 2009? Do you want me not to use the Reserve Fund? I shall then make a reference to an intervention by Mr Rivera on this matter. Your Honor, you've had no idea, you're talking about a lack of proposals, a lack of ideas. You have not raised anything in this House, but I am not concerned whether you are able to go to the Toledo Pact and whether you are able to seek agreement and consensus there, as many have asked this morning. Mr Iglesias, I have not come to this House to say that Spain could not go better or that the situation was excellent. I just didn't come here to this, because I tend to be quite realistic and thoughtful in my judgments. In that I differ from you, which only highlights those things that go wrong, because it gives the feeling that you don't like that there are things that go well. Probably because his party was born in a situation that certainly wasn't the best for Spain. Anyway, that's already part of the story. I don't even like it when I say I take people's hair. I don't fool people, Mr. Iglesias. I take my work very seriously, in which I have been doing what I can for a few years, I will surely be wrong on many occasions, but with my party I received an inheritance that I would never wish for you, and we have had to make very difficult decisions. I just told you about the deficit, 9.3; a country on the verge of bankruptcy. You now tell me about the municipalities, about the communities, about squareting the accounts and about the increase in public debt. But who is believed to have launched the Autonomous Liquidity Fund because the Spanish Autonomous Communities could not access the markets and therefore could not be financed? Who put in place the Payment Plan to Providers so that people could charge, because many public institutions didn't pay him? We do not look at the time of fighting a crisis or at the time of trying to square the accounts - which we know how to square them - in whether they are municipalities, lobbyists, island councils, deputies, autonomous communities governed by Podemos or governed by the People's Party. We look at Spain, at the Spanish nation and on that basis we make the decisions to try to fix everyone's problems. [[Applauds]] There are municipalities governed by your party or parties that are very far away from us in the way of seeing the life they receive - because they are Spanish municipalities or public institutions - the help, which I also tell you that it is obliged, and that we have done because we feel it and to great honor. And it has been very useful because Spain is not only the government, they are its public institutions, all of them are the deputies, the people, the self-employed, the employees, the entrepreneurs. One doesn't fix anything, Mr. Churches, believe me. That is why it would be so important for me to contribute something to an issue that unites us all, because as I said before here we all know pensioners, we have the same wishes, the same intentions. We want to be pensioners - at least me - the later the better and then collect the pension a lot of time and sure that you too. That is why I think that on this subject with a little fineness - that we have to work on it - we could understand each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make just one comment on the inability to square the accounts. If we have the ability to square the accounts, we've proved it. We have been lowering the deficit - as I have said - from 9.3 to 3.1 and I can assure you that this is extremely heavy, because we have had to cut many items in the budget. And that does not make the Government nice, but a Government among its pretensions or priorities should not have to be nicer, it should be to try to solve the country's problems well. What I am telling you is how the accounts do not fit: with the approaches you make in this House. With that 66 billion euros to the largest you intend to endorse the taxes of the Spaniards. It's impossible to square any account. You therefore have to make an effort in accounting, because I can assure you that it is also an important issue for making good government. I agree with the bulk of Mr Rivera's intervention, I agree with what he has said about precariousness, but steps are being taken in the right direction and I do not see that it is very difficult here to come up with some sort of proposal that will be put into reforms that are useful for the future, but I also insist that almost 75% of the Spaniards, more than at times of greatest economic boom in Spain, in 2006, much more in percentage, have an indefinite contract. He referred to my intervention on the pension fund. It seems reasonable to him that we would have used them at such a difficult time as that to pay pensions. But then he made another comment that is also true: that we cannot yet contribute to the pension fund. And we cannot contribute despite the fact that the number of pensioners is already increasing. But the deficit was very large, Mr Rivera, and every year without doing anything, without making any political decision, 38 billion means the entry of new pensioners into the system into the social security budget. In any case, we have been able to reduce the overall deficit - social security too - from 9.3% to 3.1% and I think we are creating jobs at a good rate. We need jobs, and other things, but we also need jobs. In the last year - some spokesmen have said that they did not understand the proportion of a pensioner and six contributors - there were 611,000 new social security contributors and 107 000 or 108 000 people who entered the pension system. I agree with what you have said about the IRPF, both to the extent and in the way in which it is reasoned. Family policies are important - I have already announced - and we are going to make an effort to try to raise minimum pensions and widowhood. Mr. Republican Left Representative, I just want to say one thing that you will understand. In Spain there are no political prisoners, there are no political prisoners. In Spain, those who decide judges are in prison because they do not comply with the law. Political prisoners are prisoners who are prisoners because of their ideas. You have the same ideas as many people who are in jail, and yet you are here because you have not broken the law. [[Applauds]] That's what we've been trying to tell you many times over this time. The rule of law, the rule of law, the defence of human rights and freedoms, national sovereignty, of course democracy and human rights are the fundamental values on which our Constitution is based, but they are also the fundamental values on which these treaties are based, which are the legal basis of the largest European project that has lived the world in a long time, and of course we, which is the European Union. Your Honor, I think there is a good pension system in Spain - I don't know if it looks like it or not - I think it is a good system; of course it can be much better, just as I think there is a good health system - it can be much better - and there is a good system of railways, motorways and motorways, and it can be all much better, but it is better to look at others, and sometimes to think about what good we have doesn't come wrong, I think it is positive, because it also stimulates and helps us in the future. When the only thing you want to see is what is negative or bad in a country, in any organization, in a company or in a family, you do not move - at least I see it - in the right direction. But this is a system that is able to pay more than 14 million benefits every month to more than 14 million people, in a country where nearly 19 million people work. It is a good system, and the fact that it is a good system is what stimulates us to improve it in the future. I want to maintain this system, I want to improve it. I have worked, as was my obligation and as many have done, intensively since we arrived at the Government. I'm worried, but as I told you before, I'm optimistic about it. Mr Esteban, I agree that employment alone is not worth it, but certainly without employment there is nothing to do. We can do the reforms that we have for good, we can discuss what we have to discuss, vote for or against, but since there are no people working and social security contributions, all that will unfortunately be a waste of work. There are some things I agree with you about. I have presented my approaches - my approaches are mine - but in Spain pension reforms have been made for a long time before the Toledo Pact. I remember the one, which was the best known, in which Nicolás Redondo, then secretary general of the UGT, who disagreed with the government, left the seat. Since then, many reforms have been made. I don't think turning back on them earns anything. The fact that it is in the law - this is also important - does not mean that the rise of the CPI is actually fulfilled, because in this country we have already had examples that there were things that were in the law - the rise of the CPI - and then they were not fulfilled. Mr Esteban, you have remembered Hungary and Belgium, but we are already, as I said today, having some agreements with trade union and business organisations: minimum wage, civil servants' salaries, police salaries, in which indexing is not the system that applies, because honestly - I have been convinced, I have to say - it is not the best system. And I do agree with two things that you have said: reforms, yes, in the Toledo Pact and that is what solves the fundamental problem and not what we can solve in the budgets, which is a problem for a year; and with more taxes on taxpayers I do not agree either. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I have made some initial comments on how I saw the pension issue. I have tried to explain, to remind you all, the expenditure on pensions, how it evolves, what it means in relation to other countries of the European Union. I have praised the system because I believe that, although it can be improved, it is positive, and I have tried to explain what needs to be done to preserve it. I will now try to summarise, in a minute, what my proposals would be for the future. First of all, I think it would be very negative, which leads to nothing turning this into an auction to see who offers more or to see who promises more. That may be very good to take a few votes in half an hour, to get along with one another or another, but that does not solve the problem of pensions in our country at all. Secondly, I am in a position to send all the Spanish pensioners, those of today and those of the future, a message of tranquillity. There are sufficient grounds to say that this good system that we have is going to be maintained and we are going to maintain it in the future. I make four proposals today. The first, do not touch the reforms that have already been made in past times, which have been useful for the next times. The second, working on the Toledo Pact. In my opinion - although this is only my opinion - as I said before, we must try to close the structural deficit soon, we must try to reconcile an improvement in pensions with the balance of the system, we must improve widow's pensions, we must make progress in the fight against fraud, and we must promote active ageing and progress in the compatibility of pensions with work. We can deal with more things, but I think these are the most urgent at the moment. Thirdly, employment. I will not repeat what I said in my initial speech. I think we are doing an economic policy of fiscal consolidation and reforms, and we have to pay attention to many things - the digital question, the question of education, R & D+i - but I think we are taking steps in the right direction. And lastly, and fourthly, referring to 2018 alone, I believe that in the context of the budget debate, which is where these things should be done, something can be done for the benefit of people. We have all referred to this, to the income tax on natural persons for pensioners, measures in defence of birth and measures for lower pensions and widow's pensions. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to reach at least a minimum of understanding. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u78	We now continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. We begin with the questions to the President of the Government. Firstly, a question from Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, what assessment do you make of the mobilizations of women last March 8th?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u80	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Robles, the mobilizations reaffirm me in a central objective of my Government, which I have repeatedly stated, that of continuing to work against any kind of inequality, and especially to achieve real equality between men and women. This is a cause that deserves to be defended by all. The assessment I make is that it was an expression of the need for all, especially the public authorities, to continue working to combat each and every gap that still exists between women and men. The Government is doing so, I think we are on the right track, even though we still have a lot of work ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u83	Tell me, Mr. Rajoy, when are you credible?, when in your party do you share arguments saying that the mobilizations and the strike of day 8 are insolidary, elitist and that they attack Western society? When are you credible?When do some of your ministers and public officials talk about the Japanese strike and you have to disallow them, but you do it not out of conviction, but because they explain the work they are doing certain women? When are you credible, when you say that in the matter of the wage gap we do not get involved? Are you credible in those moments? Or now? Now that, as you have done with pensions, you do an election calculation because more than half of the country's citizens are women? You, with your policies, have subjected women to a profound inequality in the wage gap. Let's not get involved in that, you said. Yeah, the pay gap. The pension gap that women have in this country - which you have not mentioned, you have avoided - is 38%. What reconciliation and co-responsibility policies are you doing? None. And in favor of birth, as someone used to say? No politics. So when are you credible. On the 8th, with your calculation, you put on a loop. Do you think he's cheating on women in this country with a tie? Do you think she's cheating on them? [[Applauds]] The only thing I can tell you about it is that you take that tie to the BOE. We are demanding that it equip the fight against gender-based violence with those 200 million to which it committed itself. How are we going to believe what you tell us about pensions when you are unable to equip gender-based violence with 200 million that you and your party committed to in the Gender-Based Violence Pact. [[Applauds]] It is good enough, Mr Rajoy, to take advantage - I told you earlier - of the pensioners, the pensioners and the women. So put it on, but put it on the BOE and please apologize to the women. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u84	Mr. President. Silence! Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u85	As all of you have been able to verify, do whatever you do, say what you say, give her reason or not, tie me up or take it away from me, Mrs Robles will not stop criticizing me. Do as you see fit and expedient, I will in the meantime continue to work. The most important gap that concerns women is the gap between those who have jobs and those who do not. With you women lost 1,400,000 jobs. We have already recovered all the female employment that was destroyed during the crisis. I'll keep working. There is another gap that also worries me that it is that of entrepreneurship. The number of women entrepreneurs has already increased by more than 100 000 over the past year, and this is a very positive fact. There is a third gap, that of pensions, because since 2016 there are 355,000 women who receive a pension supplement of up to 15% depending on the number of children, with our vote in favour and against. With regard to the wage gap when we arrived at the government and you were going to be over 17% and now it's at 14. These are good data, they are not definitive, we aspire to more and we will continue to work in the right direction. We are talking to trade unions and employers at the Employment Quality Bureau, and this is one of the issues we are going to address. With all honesty I cannot understand how you use this topic to criticize a person like me, who has absolutely responsible behavior and who does not accept that you give him any kind of lesson on equality between women and men. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT VALUE THE INDEPENDENCE OF JUDICIAL POWER? [[File number 180/000570]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u86	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u87	Thank you, President. Mr President of the Government, in the investment agreement between Citizens and the People's Party we demanded 150 reforms, and some of them referred, in particular, to the independence of the judiciary and the reform of the prosecutor's office in order to have an independent prosecutor's office. In recent weeks we have known that you are not prepared to comply with the investiture agreement, either. I am concerned, Mr Rajoy, that you only like a part of the agreement, which is when Citizens voted yes to their investiture, but there is another part -150 demands - which must also be met, and in this case on a very important issue, which is the separation of powers. The Council of Europe has amended the plan several times already in consecutive years, and the last Greek Report warns us about something very important contained in that agreement: that judges can choose the judges mostly, that is, that it is neither Genoa nor Ferraz nor the seat of any other party that chooses the judges, and that is fundamental to the leadership of the judiciary. The second requirement is the independence of the prosecution. You and the minister have achieved something unusual: to unite judges, both progressive and independent and conservative, and prosecutors of the same and of different ideology, who threaten you with a strike precisely because you do not give independence to the judiciary. And I ask you, Mr Rajoy, why you do not support the independence of the judiciary and do not comply with those two points of the investiture agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u89	I would like, Mr Rivera, to begin my speech - because that was the way the question was put, but then I will respond more concretely to this matter - by talking about the independence of the judiciary. I believe that in this country judges act independently and that there is no interference of any kind; they will be able to right or wrong and do things better or worse, because at last they are human beings like everyone else. We may also like more or less what they do, but of course I affirm the independence of the judiciary in our country, and I also guarantee complete independence from the executive branch, another of the three major branches of government, from my parliamentary group and I also understand that from the 350 Members of this House. Indeed, I have signed measure 202, on encouraging, from the necessary parliamentary consensus, the reform of the regime for the election of council members, so that the twelve are directly elected by the judges and magistrates. I am not against this which I have signed, Mr Rivera, the problem with this whole matter is that we do not have enough votes in this House to carry it forward, and when we try to make a pact we have to give in to some things and not others, but it is metaphysically impossible to reach an agreement if we pretend that everything we put forward comes forward, because the others will also have similar objectives. That is therefore my position, but at the moment we do not have enough support to carry it forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u90	Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u91	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Rajoy, you are right that career judges are independent, because they are career judges, the problem comes when we choose the judiciary, where Genoa and Ferraz literally decide who the members of the judiciary are, and that is where the Greek Report precisely amends us, and where, according to the Council of Europe, we are not complying. I tell you something else, Mr Rajoy: I suspect that you very, very, very much do not like to comply with this agreement, either in this or in other matters, because in fact you had absolute majority and never did. So I don't think you like judges choosing judges because with absolute majority, when they could do it, they didn't. So don't talk to me about majorities now, because you with absolute majority didn't do it. Secondly, Mr Rajoy, we have brought here a reform of the prosecutor's office and you did not ally yourselves with your investiture partner, but with those of the PSOE - who, by the way, only criticize this when they are in opposition - in order to guarantee the independence of the prosecutor's office. I do believe, Mr Rajoy, that an independent prosecutor's office is needed and I do believe that judges should choose judges. Therefore, if you are not going to do so as a government, if one day this party has the responsibility to govern in this country, I pledge that the judges will choose the majority of the General Council of the Judiciary, and I pledge that it is not the president of the government who approves who finally chooses the prosecutor, but the parliamentary majority of this House. That's my commitment...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u93	Thank you very much. You are committed if you have 176 Members of Parliament, Mr Rivera, because we are talking about an organic law. You have abandoned the Commission which is debating the National Justice Strategy, and you are in your right, but there have been many agreements on important issues, including matters to which you have now referred, on the promotion of a new statute for the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the Comprehensive Plan for Judicial Transparency, on strengthening the merit and capacity of judges and prosecutors in their professional careers, on the regulation of revolving doors, on the conditions for the re-entry of judges engaged in political activity, and this is the point of discrepancy to which you have referred, Mr Rivera. If we do not have enough votes to do so, we have two options: to do nothing or take steps in the right direction, which I, with absolute frankness, intend to do always. In life you don't always get everything you want to get, but if you step in the right direction you will also have done something positive for your country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDà I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK THAT IT SHOULD BE TRANSLATED THE CATALUNIA TO THE INDEPENDENT CATALAN LEADERS IN CHARGE IN THE FIELD AND UNDER THE REAL? [[File number 180/00557]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u94	Question also addressed to the President of the Government, Mr Joan Tardà i Coma, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u95	Go ahead, Mr. Rajoy, our conviction that Jordi Cuixart, Jordi Sànchez, Joaquim Forn and Oriol Junqueras should not be in jail. If they are, it is not to avoid a recidivism, but to scarment hundreds of thousands of Catalans, but I today demand a political gesture, moreover certainly loaded with humanity. Allow families to have prisoners nearby. Jordi Cuixart's son, an eleven-month-old baby, has already traveled 30,000 kilometers so his father can see him half an hour behind a glass. This act, Mr Rajoy, would pave the way for a sincere dialogue, to solve a political problem with politics, so I ask you if you are willing to do anything to move these prisoners to Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u97	Mr. Tardà, I'm going to tell you with absolute frankness. The President of the Government - he knows that I always do - must not give his opinion on matters which arise in the field of justice. We live in a system of separation of powers, and the Executive Power, which is the one you control in this session, should not interfere with decisions proper to justice. I have to respect the decisions of justice, whether I like it or not, refer to me or other people or have some connotations or others. That's the rule of law. The Executive makes its decisions, the Legislature controls it and approves the laws or not, and the judiciary enforces them. We must therefore respect the decisions taken by the judiciary, because it is a basic pillar of the State and because, if we did not, neither the law nor the rules of coexistence nor the way we behave together would serve absolutely nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u98	Mr. Tardà, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u99	Mr Rajoy, you can push for legislative changes and you can even urge the State Attorney General. There is something you can do considering that you, President of the Government, would do so. Moreover, it is not a receipt - I believe - to want to win in the courts what has not been achieved in the ballot boxes. Judicating the Catalan conflict and perverting justice through its politicization inevitably involves twisting fundamental rights. I'll tell you something I think you'll remember. You were able to attend Nelson Mandela's funeral because the justice of the apartheid regime was more impartial than the Spanish one. South African prosecutor Yutar asked Mandela for the death penalty for high treason based on conjecture, and at one point in the trial the investigating judge accused the prosecutor that the basis of his argument was the prior conviction that the defendants were guilty. Well, sixty years later Judge Llarena is also convinced of the violent rebellion of Catalan prisoners, based on conjecture. This is the reality. Yes, they are political prisoners, and I recognize that you do not have to agree with us, of course, but in the same way I ask you to act, for politics certainly - for politics to triumph - but above all for humanity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u100	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I repeat what I said in my previous speech. If the President of the Government or any member of his Government were to make decisions corresponding to the judges, we would have a very serious problem of the rule of law and the functioning of the democratic State. That doesn't happen here or anywhere else in the world. Your Honor, the decisions you or your colleagues have taken over the past few months have been very strong decisions and have had political consequences, including the implementation of Article 155 of the Constitution. That is a political decision that I brought to the Senate and for it you can demand, if you see it timely and convenient, responsibilities if you do not agree with me, but the rest of the decisions are decisions of the courts, which, as I have told your fellow banker earlier, is not a matter of ideas. You can have in this country the ideas that everyone wants to have, but everyone who is here and everyone who is not here has an obligation to comply with the laws. Frankly, Mr Tardà, I believe that at this time the best way to start generating a different environment is to try to recover normality: institutional normality, economic normality and social normality. People are tired, people want to form a government now and, if possible, to form a government that does not have or create problems with justice, because that solves the problem in twenty-four hours... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u102	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT RECOGNIZE HIS LEGISLATIVE PROGRAMME TO PROVIDE IN REAL EQUALITY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN TO THE RESULT OF THE MOVEMENTS OF MARCH 8? [[File number 180/00573]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u103	She now asks the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u104	Thank you, President. Vice-President, will the Government rectify its legislative programme to advance real equality between men and women?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have just heard the President of the Government - you reproduce the same question as Mrs Margarita Robles -. We take our work very seriously to turn the legal equality of women, which we have not achieved for a long time, into real equality. We do so, first of all, with regard to what is for us the most serious fact of inequality, macho violence, gender-based violence, and with that plan we want to adopt changes to the Law against Gender-based Violence that we have recently agreed with you. Secondly, we believe that we need to take steps to make that real equality work in employment, work in wages and work in conciliation. The quality table for employment has been working for a few months. I hope that we will be able to reach agreements that we can transfer to the Workers' Statute, equality laws and work through conciliation. Thirdly, we need to work on equality; to educate on equality, but also to educate for equality and also to overcome the technical and technological gaps. And finally, we all have to work together, and a lot, in pedagogy, because there are abusive behaviors that some thought had been overcome and that, however, we are seeing in the younger people, in the younger people. I believe that this is a job of all, of men and women of all political parties. That is the vocation of this Government and I hope it will be yours, beyond what we have just heard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u107	Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u108	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, on 8 March this country's women were an example, we were world leaders in the struggle for real equality between men and women. We are proud of what was done on the 8th, and the same reasons should have your Government and your party to be ashamed, because the paper was unqualified. They started ridiculed the mobilizations, calling the Japanese strike, as if we had not made enough of the harakiri the Spanish women, to celebrate them then, by the way, next to the other right that now wants to lead the feminist movement of Citizens, as if they had done nothing else from the beginning rather than boycott them. The good news is they're not cheating on anyone, and I'm going to give you some example, Madam Vice President. The first thing is that I'm sure they're going to release the flag of equality with the same frivolity that they tried to catch as soon as the media noise passes. You appealed to the Constitutional Court for the Equality Act because you said it was against ideological freedom and political pluralism. You're the ones who say, when we talk about the gap, that we don't have to get involved in that. - Let's not get involved in that, Mr. Rajoy. You are the ones who wanted to put an end to the right of women to decide about our motherhood, and that is why we had to make a great mobilization in this country and stop, just four years ago, with a train of freedom precisely that setback. From our 'parmos' we passed to our'stops', but always, what a coincidence, with you in front of us. Citizenship takes the initiative when the government does not, because this transcends ideology, because even its own voters tell them that they have to start legislation on equality; something they have not done. They have a credibility problem. Make proposals, take steps to achieve real equality between men and women. If they do not, if they are not capable, even if they govern for that, at least have the shame of supporting those that others put on the table, such as, for example, the law on combating the wage gap or the law on equal work that we have just introduced. As I say to you, women will believe them when they see them promoting equality laws, rather than curbing what others propose, and rather than failing to comply with what others approve. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u109	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, before you come here to raise new issues and propose to us all women that we think the same, when what we have to do is get more together, I will remind you of what you voted in this House and which benefits women, so that you reconcile what you do with what you vote in this House. First of all, you have voted against the special bonuses for the indefinite recruitment of women; the extension and equalisation of the maternity leave between men and women - which is also equal -; the extension of the right to shorter working hours for children between the ages of eight and twelve; the doubling of the paternity leave; and even the maternity supplement in pensions for 350,000 women. When I come here to ask for legislative initiatives, at least I vote for what other groups are proposing, which perhaps we also know about women because we are also women, Mrs Lastra. Secondly, he was little concerned about the wage gap in 2007, and is now much smaller. But I ask you to support us when we bring this House... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u111	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE GONZALEZ ELORZA GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ARE THE REASONS WHY THE GOVERNMENT IS AGAINST THE EXHUMINATIONS OF THOUSANDS OF PERSONS DISAPPEARED IN THE CIVIL WAR AND IN THE DECTATORY AND ABANDONED IN FIELDS AND Cunetas? [[File number 180/00567]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u112	Question now to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Odón Elorza González, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u113	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, the failure of the Government and the failure to implement the Memory Act of 2007 have forced us to present a bill that you have vetoed, which the Government has vetoed for no reason. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u114	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u115	We present this bill to defend the culture of reconciliation, to defend the democratic dignity of the Republicans who remain buried in the coves of thousands and to defend democratic memory. You, the Government, violate the law, veto the law and, with the complicity of Citizens, in the Congressional Bureau and without having an absolute majority representing this House, prevent the treatment of a law, kidnap the legislative role of this House. Why do you veto the law, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u116	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u117	Thank you, President. Your Honor, neither this government nor this parliamentary group veto any law that has to do with the development of democratic memory. If a veto can be formulated, it has to do with the fact that you have made an improper approach in accordance with the existing legislation, which creates obligations. I am talking about obligations of an economic nature, which are the ones that have promoted this veto, but I believe that at the bottom of the question what you are raising are behaviors that are not precisely advancing in the decision of reconciliation and democratic memory, but continuing to open up gaps. Therefore, it seems to me that there is a fundamental problem in that law, beyond the veto that exists, in accordance with the parliamentary techniques of this House, Your Honor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u118	Thank you very much. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u119	Minister, we Socialists want to close wounds and you do what you do is an abusive use of Article 134 of the Constitution, an abusive use to prevent the legislative function of this Parliament and do so on and on with the complicity of Citizens. Tell me how much money the government is willing to spend to restore dignity to the bodies of thousands of men and women who are still buried in ditches and pits, how much you can spend. Why, on the other hand, do they commit the incoherence - let us say so - of collaborating - all right - in the exhumation and repatriation of bodies of soldiers from the Blue Division in Russia. Why do you continue to allow the apologia of Francoism, of the regime of dictatorship, as, for example, when a general on the reserve is appointed president of the Francisco Franco National Foundation. Why do you allow the apologia of Francoism. Why does President Rajoy refuse to change the name of the streets, as happened on November 30 in an official act referring, Mr Rajoy, to the fact that it seemed wrong for him to change the name of an admiral, Admiral Varela, - the name of the street - in Marín by the name of Rosalía de Castro. Why do you have thousands of bodies kidnapped in the Valley of the Fallen and are accomplices to the prior of the Benedictines. Why don't you comply with the court rulings, why do you allow - because you have a Francoist memory - the dictator buried next to the altar in the Valley of the Fallen. Why do they allow... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u120	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u121	Thank you, President. Your Honor, to do all that you say there are different ways to address it, no doubt, such as reforming the Criminal Code and reforming and reviewing hate crimes, which you did not support. Also, for example, to promote the Statute of the Victim as did this Government or this parliamentary group, or to provide information on 4400 Spaniards who had died in the concentration camps. We're managing the grave map, where there are 45,000 identified victims and almost a million queries to that grave map. Every day we are issuing consultations to citizens in the administrative services of the ministry. Therefore, many things can be done and are being done. Do not confuse yourself, because what has been said about the repatriations of the Blue Division was a socialist government that put it into effect; that is a defence personnel policy, it has nothing to do with this government, and rather you should consult Mr Felipe González, who in 1995 promoted this measure, or Mr Zapatero, who was the one who gave the most push to these kinds of issues. In any case, I am surprised by the intensity of your pilgrimage to the Valley of the Fallen. You've been in the nation's government for twenty-two years, you didn't think of moving a tile, and now you think it's such an aggressive and offensive element. In any case, Your Honor, let us work for reconciliation, let us work for the restoration of the dignity of history and let us work to overcome the tragedies that have happened in our history. It does not seem to me that since the confrontation and from bilaterality we will find any solution to all this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u122	Thank you very much. - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HAVE YOU TAKEN ANY ACTION AFTER THE PERSON IS DISCLOSURED BECAUSE OF THE PERFILE OF TWITTER 'TACITO', FROM WHICH POLITICAL MESSAGES RELATED TO INVESTIGATIONS LIDED BY HIM OUT OF DANIEL BAENA, COLONEL OF CIVIL GUARDIA, CHIEF OF CATALUNIA'S JUDICIAL POLICIA? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000572]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u123	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, the question is asked by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, he asked if you have taken any action regarding the lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard, the current chief of the judicial police in Catalonia, who behind the profile 'Tacito' on Twitter launches political messages related to investigations directed by himself.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u125	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u126	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Legarda, I am informed by the General Directorate of the Civil Guard that there is no objective circumstance justifying any action against Lieutenant Colonel Daniel Baena. The comments to which you refer are not attributable to him even under pseudonym. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u128	Since Mr. Baena was discharged into the networks in 2011 under the pseudonym 'Tácito' has not ceased to demonstrate his political ideas, in our opinion, in very serious breaches according to the disciplinary regulations of the Civil Guard. I give you some examples. Regarding the so-called Catalan process that he himself investigates, he writes: The state has defeated the mafia installed in the institutions of all, has taken away power by imposing silence in Catalonia. - Come on, Mr Baena associates the application of 155 with a curfew with military echoes of occupation. In this one, regarding the days prior to the 1-O in which he emulated on his Twitter the script of an arrest of American urns bearers, he says: Put the urns on the ground, slowly hands behind the head; without sudden movements, turn. And, by the way, after the attacks in Catalonia, on August 27, he related it to the sale of arms by Spain to Saudi Arabia when he wrote: Saudi Arabia finances terrorism, Spain sells arms to Saudi Arabia. Terrorism attacks Spain. Why? They'd be allies, wouldn't they? Anyway, I could go on with this rosary of misconceptions, but I don't have much time. Minister, we tell you what we told President Rajoy about the UCO colonel, Mr Sánchez Corbí: The head of the judicial police in Catalonia cannot express political opinions, and even less so about the individuals and political groups to whom he investigates and on whom reports will be used against him. I suppose, as with Mr. Sánchez Corbí, they will not dare to open information proceedings, but that is what should be done. Because, minister, with these people under your command we have only to add to that expression which was first attributed to the Count of Romans and which we then heard in the mouth of Mr Rajoy, that of: what a troop; what a fucking troop! Minister, take action. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u130	Mr Legarda, sincerely, and with the respect with which you may not have spoken of a person who does not have the capacity right now to defend himself before you, what I ask is rigour before we bring any charges against anyone. According to all the reports in my power, the only truth of this whole matter that you ask me is that the Lieutenant Colonel, from his particular account, follows the account of 'Tacito', as follows sixty-one more accounts, but, of course, he is neither responsible nor attributable to what is published in it, neither in that nor sixty-one more accounts that he follows. But I can tell you so that it is clear to you, regardless of the arguments you want to use here, that I do not share some of the comments that have been published in that account. And I also want you to know, like all your ladies and gentlemen, that when some mistake has been made in the Ministry of the Interior with some inappropriate communication of an official account, appropriate measures have been taken. No one questions today that social networks are fundamental, since from them you can get a lot of information and we all also agree that they can be a useful tool. In fact, social networks, Mr Legarda, are a source of information that they have generated and that will generate more and more information and it can be interesting, without a doubt, that information so that it can be taken into account, but I also assure you one thing, must be used seriously, rigorously and with great prudence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u131	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AGREED AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AND CIVIL CARE IN THE FIELD OF SALARY EQUIPMENT? [[File number 180/00569]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u132	He also asked the Minister of the Interior of Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, at last Monday, justice was done, a historic decision for an equally historic claim, a decision that will end an unjust wage situation of the Police and the Civil Guard, a discriminatory situation that the People's Group has been hearing from trade unions and associations for many years and that is precisely now, when the country's economy allows it, to make this reality. This Member, among others, has been listening since 2009 to trade unions and professional associations asking for equal pay, others began, Minister, last August, taking advantage of the Catalan conflict. We carried it in our election program, others did not even know that this wage injustice existed. We were talking about equality, while others were talking about matching the Civil Guard with the National Police. We respect the legitimate representatives of the Police and the Civil Guard, while others set up parallel organizations for electoral purposes. We were looking for solutions while others were behind the banners. We struggled to improve the material conditions of the Police and the Civil Guard, while others were dedicated to creating conflicts in police stations and barracks. We work from responsibility and others, Minister, work from surveys. Those who criticized the agreement last week, and who precisely yesterday attributed the merits of the agreement, are filled with their mouths talking about civilian guard and police and want to repeal the Law on Citizen Security, which precisely leaves them helpless in the proceedings. Minister, I would like to make three public thanks. The first is the entire Government, the Minister of the Interior, of course, and the Minister of Finance, and especially the Secretary of State for Security, who has carried out all the negotiations from the beginning and has prioritized the police and the Civil Guard. Of course, to all Members of the People's Parliamentary Group because they always defended them. [[Show the House some graphics]] And finally, to the unions that with responsibility obtained a historic agreement that equals the police and the Civil Guard with the Mossos, putting the interests of the police in front of their union interests. All congratulations to trade unions and associations. That's why I'm asking you the question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u134	Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u135	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Vázquez, I thank you because I know that you too have been working from the ranks of the People's Party for this long-awaited salary equalization of the Civil Guard, Police and Mossos d'Esquadra. For the Government, the assessment of this agreement is the best. It is a historic agreement that has put an end to thirty years of inequality; thirty years nothing more and nothing less. Mrs Vázquez, it was a fair claim and, as we have been saying throughout this legislature, now is the time for it to be fulfilled and now is when it will be fulfilled. On the part of the National Police, the Civil Guard and their families, I believe that the assessment also has to be very positive because it is an agreement that involves equal pay and it is for all, none of the posts will be harmed for the benefit of another, and in January 2020 it will be a real, total, and also effective match with 500 million euros that will be included in this year's budgets. And I take it that thanks can be extended to many more groups when those State General Budgets are supported to carry out that real, total and effective equalization. But there are also two very important aspects. First, that an external consultancy will oversee so that the matching for each group and at each level is accurate among all security bodies. And, at the same time, propose a legal reform so that what has happened to wage imbalance in the last thirty years will not happen again. The Government has responded to a just demand. We've fulfilled our commitment. While some have been speaking in one House and another, because I have had the opportunity to answer many questions that have been put to me, the Government has been working, negotiating seriously, analysing the figures and, on the other hand, we have also achieved with facts what for thirty years, with many words, had never been achieved, and that is that in 2020 the equalisation is total. Thanks to the four unions of the National Police, the seven associations of the Civil Guard, the services of the Civil Guard and the services of the National Police for their help. And also, of course, the Secretary of State and all the staff of the ministry he has been working on. But above all, I would like to thank the support of the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, the Ministry of Finance and the entire Government, who has closed ranks to obtain an anxious and just claim: total equality of all the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u136	Thank you. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF CARLOS CASIMIRO SALVADOR ARMENDARIZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NATION PREVIOUS RECOMBING THE ACTIONS WITH WHICH PARTICIPATED IN 50% OF THE PROPERTY OF THE AUDENASIAN UNDERTAKING, CONCESSIONARY OF THE AP-15 AUTHORIST, WHO SOLD IN 2003? [[File number 180/00558]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u137	Question to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Carlos Casimiro Salvador Armendáriz, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. As you know, the AP-15 motorway runs through Navarra from north to south. The concessionaire that operates it was created in 1973 and was in its day participated 50% by the State and 50% by the Government of Navarre. The nation's government in 2003 sold its 50 per cent stake, and the last thing I give it is that the deadline for the reversal of the Navarra government will be 2029. Your party in Navarre, Minister, has been demanding from all the political groups in the outside Parliament the advancement of its gratuitousness which many citizens and many political parties share and wish for, but so far it has not concretely defined how to do so, when it is true that one of the most feasible options that your own party would have - that is, you - to achieve that goal would be to buy back the shares that the state in its day sold, that 50%, so that one hundred percent of the company's ownership would accompany the discount policies that the Government of Navarre is currently carrying out with its 50 %. That's why I'm asking you if you're planning on doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u139	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. No, we don't plan to buy back the shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u141	Mr. Savior, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u142	Madam President, I have not heard what you have said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u143	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u144	You haven't heard what he said. I couldn't hear the answer. Could you formulate it...?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u145	I, if you like, repeat it. From here it has been perfectly heard. The Minister has replied that he will not, but he will have the opportunity to speak again in the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u146	Okay. Obviously I am not surprised by the answer because it is not an easy decision, but, given the insistence of your party in Navarre, I had an obligation to ask for the support that they had here. A few minutes ago the president asked us all to be responsible and to abandon the demagogy in important matters. That is now what I have to convey to you and ask, not to you, but to your party in Navarre through you, because there are some things that can be done and could be advanced in discount policies but there are others that cannot be done, obviously. In any case, I ask you to transfer that responsibility, which in turn asked us all to the President, and I say that we are going to act responsibly, with the same one that you are acting on matters as important to us as the Navarra Canal and the high-speed train that the Navarra Government does not want to push at the moment. That is why I ask you for that same responsibility there as you are asking here and, in any case, I reiterate that that is the way and not the demagoguery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u147	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Salvador, the ownership of this motorway is indeed of the Government of Navarre and is run by a private company, that is, the Government of Spain has absolutely nothing to do with this motorway. On the other hand, as you will understand, it is not precisely responsible to buy shares that you sold to a private company fifteen years ago and, therefore, we urge you to move this which you are asking today precisely to the Parliament of Navarre, where I know that UPN has already put forward a motion for a resolution, in the same way that the People's Party is pushing for the implementation of a series of bonuses, which is one of the measures that we are doing - and we are doing it right now - and we are dealing with some of them on some of the motorways that we manage, but we cannot do it in those that are not within our competence. You have put forward a motion for a resolution calling on the Government of Navarre to establish a system within six months by means of fiscal, economic or other measures guaranteeing free transit through the Navarra motorway to the citizens of Navarre, and what is appropriate, based on the question that you have put, is to persevere in the request to the Government of Navarra on this issue, and I am convinced that the People's Party will support it. We are going to devote the effort, as you have very well commented, to continuing to devote resources to matters as important as the high-speed train, in which we are achieving important successes. Precisely today are the offers of the Villafranca-Olite section, which, together with the next section, Olite-Peralta, which is in the process of being awarded, is going to involve an investment of 120 million euros. And as you also know, we are working on the next two stages, Olite-Tafalla, with a similar investment of 120 million euros, with the idea of being able to bid the actions in this very spring. And also today we have awarded the information study between Zaragoza and Castejón, fulfilling a commitment and a political agreement that we also have with UPN on the issues that we can address and that really interest shipwrecks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u149	Thank you very much. - BY GUILLERMO ANTONIO MEIJÓN COUSELO, BY THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT DOES THE GOVERNMENT IN EDUCATION PROVIDED FOR 3,67 % OF GDP FOR THE YEAR 2020? [[File number 180/00565]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u150	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. First of all, he asked Mr Guillermo Antonio Meijón Couselo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u151	Thank you very much, President. We said yesterday, Minister, - we said to Mr Wert - that a decapitalisation of our public education system was being perpetrated; decapitalisation of its quality, of its equity; decapitalisation of its human resources, teachers and, of course, also of economics. And we also said that this decapitalization was not the cause of the crisis but of the ideology of a government that seeks to raise the public education system to the highest levels of misery. And the stability programme with the European Union signed by your government is the best confirmation: year 2020, 3.67% of GDP. What do you have to say to this, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u152	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have to say a few things, Your Honor. The first is that I am very pleased that you start by reminding Fray Luis de León, who is very well, with that 'we said yesterday'. The second, I think you're wrong. Sending estimates of education expenditure and all State expenditure to the European Union is not an ideological issue, it is an obligation that we all have had for four years. Send forecasts of Stability Plan 2017-2020, which is a forecast of a prudent macroeconomic scenario and endorsed by the independent authority and which takes into account the possible growth of GDP: 2.7 in 2017; 2.5 in 2018; 2.4 in 2019. Therefore, Your Honor, growth forecast, expenditure forecast, which I prefer to call investment in education. Foresight, Your Honor, that is what the European Union is asking us to do, and then we will adjust it according to whether the forecast is correct or not. I want to tell you that in 2017 the GDP forecast we sent was 2.7 and is going to be 3.1 and it seems - if everything goes on - that that forecast of 2.5 in 2018 will be short and, therefore, there will be more investment in Education also in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Meijón.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u155	Minister, your problem has a name that is 3.67%. Cumulative cuts in education exceed €30 billion, 30 000 teachers less and 370 000 pupils more. And his government's response is 3.76%, the only official figure that his government displays. Faced with this, you offer an increase of 5 billion in eight years, 625 a year, with an economy that you think goes so well that 'it does not cut the sea, but flies'. But I will tell you about a non-minor problem, Minister, considering your offer, it turns out that the percentage of GDP earmarked for education - in addition to your offer - would continue to fall inexorably, and you know it. Do the math, not the stories. Socialists demand a minimum of 5% floor that guarantees a public education system based on inclusion, equity and excellence. Therefore, we cannot accept an economic proposal that consolidates the underfunding of our education system, education poverty. Mr Rajoy has been very clear today: we must fulfil our commitments to Europe. Minister, they tie the papers more than the strings. And what binds our education system is 3.67% of GDP in 2020. As long as that document is still there, your word lacks enough credit. A role that shows your model without any modesty: for the private, minister, they seek excellence; for the public, minister, they seek charity. Correct and then you will find us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u156	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, it is very difficult in minute and fourth to explain to you why using GDP as a benchmark is a bad idea. I've explained it to you in other situations, then we'll have an inquiry and I'll try to do it again, Your Honor. What is much more important is the rent per student, the rent that is spent on each student. I'm going to give you two examples that you're going to understand very well. Andalusia, in 2009, had a public expenditure per pupil of 4838 euros and 4220 euros in 2015. If you apply the expenditure on GDP, it was 4.49 in the year you had 4838 and 5.18 in the year you had 4220. And, Your Honor, if you apply a fixed percentage of GDP, what happens when GDP falls? That you have to lower spending on education compulsory, you have no room for politics, Your Honor. Locking in on that, Your Honor, it's a bad idea. I've tried to explain it to you over and over again and I'll try to explain it to you later. It's a bad idea. You play with the numbers, but you don't play with the reality of things, and we care about playing with the reality of things and giving the students in our country a public and quality education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURAL AND SPORT: DOES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT CONSIDER THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT APPROPRIATELY REDUCE ALL BECEAN QUANTITIES IN UNIVERSITY AND NON-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION? [[File number 180/00566]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u158	He also asked the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Mr Miguel Angel Heredia Díaz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, resources are needed for quality education, also in the field of scholarships. That is why I am asking you the question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u160	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for quality education resources are needed, appropriate amounts are needed for this, accounts need to be squared. The amount allocated by the State General Budgets each year to the State system of scholarships and study aid has increased from the first year following the crisis by almost 25% so far. At present it reaches 1420,3 million euros per year, the highest amount in the historical series dedicated to scholarships. The same can be said of the implemented budget, which in 2017 amounted to €1463.6 million, 25.9% more than in 2012. We will continue to do this policy, Your Honor, and I have already announced that this year in the General Budgets of the State that the Government is going to present in the near future there will be an increase of 50 million euros to beat another record in the historical series. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u163	The more prepared a young man is, the more likely he is to find a job, the more likely he is to be a university student. But the right has always said that there are students left at the university, although when they say that they are not thinking about their children, they are thinking about those of the workers. That is why Rajoy took advantage of the crisis to cut back on education and scholarships, expelling thousands of students from college, but they were not his children. Your children don't need scholarships to study. I am the son of an unemployed agricultural worker, I was the first in my family who was able to study thanks to the efforts of my parents and a scholarship from a socialist government. That is why I stand with all my strength for the son or daughter of a precarious worker to be able to study on an equal footing with the children of high-income families. That is why it seems to me that it is not fair to cut the amount of bachelor's and FP scholarships by 13%, both in the medium and higher grades. [[shows a document]] It is not tolerable to reduce university scholarships by EUR 332, especially when the rates have grown by 20%, and it is not decent, it is not, to claim 135 000 pupils who return EUR 159 million in scholarships after they have tightened the criteria. [[shows a document]] [[shows a document]] They are the answers of his Government and they are a real barbarity. Today there are 120,000 fewer university students. Scholarships have gone from being a right to become a privilege, and you have been burdened with equal opportunities in education. Is there another way of doing politics? Yes, and we are demonstrating it in communities like Andalusia, where university tuition is practically free for all those who approve in the first call. Do you know where university fees have risen the most? In the Community of Madrid and in the Community of Castile and León, where the People's Party governs. I therefore ask you here today to stop cutting the amount of scholarships, to stop crushing students, to learn that without education there is no future, and you are stealing the future from the young people of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u164	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Heredia, everything exaggerated is worthless and you have done an extremely exaggerated intervention, as always. If I was sitting on that bench, do you know what I'd do? It would be more modest, because the current situation, Mr Heredia, is not born of trees, is born of the crisis to which you brought us and is born of the measures that this Government had to do, as the President of the Government has explained to you, to carry out numerous reductions in many sectors because you put us on the verge of rescue and on the verge of bankruptcy and because at the time there was a system of scholarships that was unsustainable. That's the reality. What have we done? Give sustainability to the system. We've done a very important thing, to get a lot of people back who were failing before and who were dropping out of school. Very much of the Minister of Employment: half of those who do not have a job, have no education; 28% drop out of school, 18% today, Your Honor. Do you know how many people applied for a scholarship in 2009? 586 448 persons. Do you know how many have requested them in the last course? 883 244. What does that mean? That we have lowered the economic thresholds, Your Honor. Yes, so that more people can ask for a scholarship, and ask for it, 50% more ask for a scholarship. Because scholarships in Spain are a right, a right that favors the people who have less. That's because for this government it's very important that no one... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u166	Thank you very much. - of Mr Javier Maura Zorita, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, can we in any way be a minister of culture of a country in which one goes to the country to talk about the borbons in the letter of a song, in which one cannot read books about the Narco because they are rigid in the use of its sources or is it not possible to exhibit in the arc because one speaks of political press? [[File number 180/00561]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u167	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Eduardo Javier Maura Zorita, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u168	Thank you, President. Mr Méndez de Vigo, freedom of expression transcends the limits of the relationship between government and opposition and also the limits of conventional party debate. It is a matter of country, social contract and historical moment. In the last few weeks we have known the Fariña and Valtonyc sentences and we have experienced a case of censorship in Arco for a work that could not be exposed by the mere fact of holding political prisoners. We know, and it is obvious, that you do not sign judgments and we also know that you do not personally decide what is exposed and what is not in Arco, but you are the Minister of Culture of a country where situations like these occur, and you are the Minister of Culture of a country to which the European Court of Human Rights has just condemned for interfering with the freedom of expression of two people. That is why I ask you: what is the government going to do and what are we going to do as a House of Representatives to actively fight for freedom of expression? Are you worried about everything that's going on? Are you worried about what I just told you? Do you have any contradiction as Minister of Culture for the situations I have just told you? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u169	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u170	Your Honor, in the first of the cases to which you refer the Supreme Court has confirmed a sentence for the violation of three crimes, the exaltation of terrorism and humiliation of the victims, of articles 578 and 579 of the Criminal Code; insults and slanders to the head of State, of 490, and threats, of 169 of the Criminal Code. In the second case, you have referred to an interim measure ordered by an investigating court, Collado Villalba, 7th, pursuant to section 731 of the Civil Prosecution Act. And with regard to the third, Your Honor, I have already spoken at the time, I said clearly that I was in favour of freedom of expression and that it seemed to me that what had been tried to do had caused the exact opposite. Therefore, in the first two cases, Your Honor, these are two judicial decisions which the Government respects and does not comment on, and in the second I believe that I have made my views sufficiently clear. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Maura, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u172	Thank you, President. Mr Méndez de Vigo, freedom of expression, in the first place, is not a whim, nor can it be ventilated with a 'we have respected judicial decisions', since the laws to which those judicial decisions relate are made here, are made in this place. Freedom of expression is also an inalienable social and political freedom; the freedom worth the penalty, the freedom to exist socially without having to ask permission from anyone, with sufficient material conditions and without arbitrariness, that freedom is absolutely impossible without freedom of expression. That is why I am concerned and surprised to some extent that you feel somewhat uncomfortable with this problem, as we saw when you were asked in the media after the Arc case and as we could see in other members of your Government. Certainly, we have to respect the judicial decisions, we have to respect the judgments, also that of the European Court of Human Rights. Are you worried about what happened to this sentence? Are you concerned about the merits of that sentence? Finally, a free society, regardless of its judicial decisions, cannot live in fear of the books it publishes or of the investigations it carries out, nor of the works of art it produces. That is precisely why freedom of expression is not just a matter of respect for laws, it is also a subject of laws and laws that we do here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u173	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u174	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm glad you're concerned about whether I'm concerned about freedom of expression. When you were four years old, I was a guest professor at the International Human Rights Institute in Strasbourg and taught the European Convention on Human Rights. When you were at the university, I drafted the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and encouraged one day a year to be the day against the death penalty. I therefore know something about freedom of expression because I am concerned and concerned and because I believe in it and because I believe it is a foundation of democracy. But I believe that there is also another basis for democracy, which is to respect and abide by judicial judgments. And I would like, Your Honor, that we also have respect for them and, for example, that when we do not like a sentence, we comply with it and respect it. That would be a good example for everyone. Therefore, freedom of expression without the slightest hesitation, because it is a fundamental cosustance to democracy. In this House we make laws but they are enforced by the courts. We must not become judges of the courts and say when we like them or not because that one has a risk, Your Honor. Do you know what it is? That when we don't like it because we don't agree with it we reject it and we don't fulfill it. This Government always respects and obeys, although it may not share. Your Honor, this Government will respect and comply with the judgments of the Court of Strasbourg, the Court of Luxembourg and the other courts because it believes that they are a fundamental element of the fulfilment of democracy. Don't worry. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u175	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA MELISA RODRIGUEZ HERNANDEZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK GUARANTEES THE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL STUDENTS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00571]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u176	He also asked the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Ms Melisa Rodríguez Hernández of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u177	Minister, what does the Government intend to do to reduce or eliminate the gap in educational spending between autonomous communities in this country?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u178	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u179	Your Honor, discuss this issue in the subcommittee that is studying a social and political pact for education, in which your party, your parliamentary group and I are, but it seems that others have no interest in being. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u181	Minister, in the light of the data that exists, I suppose you won't be surprised to say that communities like the Basque Country have an investment per student per year of almost 9000 euros, doubling the amount that other communities like Madrid, Andalusia or Castile-La Mancha have in investment per student per year. Moreover, in Melilla, which is directly dependent on the central government, barely exceeds 3900 euros a year per pupil. Inequality breaks the constitutional principle that we have on equality. In addition, various educational experts argue that this gap, if prolonged over time, is directly reflected in academic results. In fact, we see this in the PISA reports and in all the differences between autonomous communities. In the end, what is being done with this educational investment gap is that there are first-class young people and second-class young people or that we have first-class and second-class education systems depending on the autonomous community in which we are. In addition, there is another inequality that makes it possible for young people in communities such as mine, the Canary Islands, but also in Andalusia or Extremadura, to have even a year and a half less schooling if we compare them with students from Castile and León or Navarre. It is clear that the first stage of education is crucial and of course we need to discuss it within that subcommission - in which it would be great for all political parties to be there because education belongs to everyone and not to just one political party - because if we guarantee equal investment in that first stage of education we will also ensure that school dropout numbers are reduced because they remain alarming in some autonomous communities. We believe in those territorial cooperation programmes. Let me make a mention. We used to talk about pensions, but we will not be able to guarantee them if we forget our children and our young people because they are going to be the ones to guarantee the future of pensions. I will simply reflect, and it is that the educational system of an advanced society, as Spain is supposed to be, must aspire to be fair in order to ensure that the principle of real equality between the autonomous communities is ensured and that what is happening today does not happen, that children have a first or second education according to the autonomous community in which they are born. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u182	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u183	I do not share your assertion that the Spanish education system is not equitable; the Spanish education system is equitable and it is not because I say it but because international studies such as PISA say it, which has just established that Spain has one of the most equitable systems of the OECD, which shows, first of all, that it has fewer backward pupils than the average of the eighty countries that make up this organization and that it is also among the countries participating in PISA that the impact of social, economic and cultural status is lower, which means that the Spanish education system is equitable. However, you say: there are differences in funding between the Autonomous Communities. Of course there is, Your Honor, of course there is, because of the EUR 48 billion we allocate to education spending - I prefer to say investment in education -, Your Honor, first of all, there is a distribution at the sectoral conference according to criteria established and agreed among all. But do you know how much it corresponds to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport of that 48 billion? 5.19 %, Your Honor. In other words, what territorial cooperation policies can be implemented with 5.19 %? Well, quite a few, Your Honor, that's the reality of things. Moreover, within the autonomous communities the allocation of expenditure in many cases is not final. We are talking about the 2018 State General Budgets and also that there will be a larger allocation to the autonomous communities of more than €4 billion, and it is not, Your Honor, because the autonomous communities do what they want with that allocation. That is the margin I was trying to explain earlier to Mr Meijón, that is politics. There are autonomous communities - and I have the list, but you know that I do not like to come to this House to signify with my finger to one autonomous community in front of another because my task is also to vertebrate Spain - where educational expenditure is very low while in others it is higher. That, Your Honor, is an exercise of political responsibility, but the Spanish system as such is equitable, it certainly is. Whether there are autonomous communities that spend more or less, Your Honor, is also the result of the autonomy of these autonomous communities... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u184	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Sofia Fernández Castanón, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in any way form the Minister of Employment and Social Security: What measures does the Ministry of Employment and Social Security intend to take in view of the impact of the women's strike on March 8th? [[File number 180/00559]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u185	Question by Mrs Sofía Fernández Castañón, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u186	Thank you, President. Minister, what steps does the Ministry of Employment and Social Security intend to take following the impact of the March 8 feminist strike?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, on 8 March Spain was a tide of solidarity and commitment to real equality between women and men in our country, which is certainly good news for all women but also for Spain as a whole, because if we want to compete with the best we have, which is talent, it is essential that 51% of the population is there from the very beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature just over a year ago we have reached important pacts for young people, for the self-employed, for the long-term unemployed, also for the lowest wages in Spain with the rise of the minimum wage to achieve a decent standard of living in Spain, but also, I believe, that you and we must reach a pact with the other parliamentary groups with women and for women. We, as a Government, are trying to achieve this in the social dialogue with trade unions and employers because we need allies in this task. First of all, we need men as allies in collective bargaining and, therefore, in social dialogue, but we also need all Spanish society represented by all parliamentary groups for co-responsibility and also for the commitment of real equality between men and women. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández Castañón, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u190	Let me doubt that you will be allies, at least at the moment when we are now, not because of our action, but because of your inaction, Minister. In this House he has said many times that there are more women working than ever before, something that is statistically true if we talk about employment, but if we talk about work it turns out that women have worked all their lives. The point is we get paid for it then and now. But let's go to the data. From the 1990s to the year 2008, with the crisis, the example of employment growth among women is spectacular, but don't forget that it is already marked by the problems created by inequality today, which are precisely the temporality and partiality with which women workers continue to work in family care, something that greatly benefits the State and is not recognized. Women are now very precarious and still stopped; six million workers stopped on March 8, Minister, to tell you, among other things, that you are not doing well, that you are doing it fatal. The women of this country, from poor pensioners to precarious young women, went out on the street on 8 March to say that life must be put at the centre of politics, that people are ahead of the banks, the highways and the friends who are being cut off by public contracts. [[Applauds]] You list proposals and speak in 'rajoyesco', which is what we have seen throughout the day, because the government has been caught with the change in pace, because the day of March 8 was historic. Note that even its orange subsidiary is now trying to cross-reference and co-opt feminism. By the way, good luck, Mr. Rivera. Maybe if you stop blocking the feminist movement on Twitter, learn something. This is a House of Representatives and you control the Congressional Bureau and veto and steal the Legislature's right to legislate. I'm going to give you two examples thinking of granddaughters and grandmothers, mothers and daughters, women who gave us a historical lesson this March 8. They have twice vetoed the Equal Permits Act in a non-transferable manner and they will say it's a matter of budget, but we can ask the Minister of Defense how we're doing about it. In addition, they have vetoed my group's proposed law to revalue pensions. And I'm gonna tell you one more thing. Do you know what women sang on March 8th? Less lace and more money. I hope you're listening to M. Rajoy and also Mr. Montoro precisely because we don't want to... [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u191	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the struggle for real equality in Spain between men and women is not a partisan or partisan battle. It must be a shared commitment in this House. I have already told you that I am working on social dialogue to reach an agreement so that trade unions and employers have better tools of information and transparency so that there is real wage equality in Spain. We start from a good base because the wage gap in Spain is in historical minimums, but we continue to move forward because the goal is zero. Secondly, Your Honor, we really want women to have greater opportunities in employment and in their daily lives. This requires co-responsibility, a national agreement for conciliation and for more rational timetables in Spain to be a reality every day in families, in homes, in work and in society. And finally, Your Honor, we have worked to narrow the pension gap by launching a maternity supplement that increases pensions by up to 15% when women have had two or more children and have been able to work throughout their lives. It is charged 355,000 women, having reduced in just two years 3 points that gender gap in pensions. Therefore, Your Honor, realities, compromise and I hope that with you too I agree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - BY JOSÉ JUAN DÍAZ TRILLO, THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE BEFORE THE TEMPORARY THE LITORAL OF HUELVA? [[File number 180/00568]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u193	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mr José Juan Díaz Trillo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, given your great ability to work, I do not know whether the Japanese or the Spanish, I do not understand how you have not had time, after fourteen days of storms, to visit us on the coasts of Huelva and Cadiz. It is true that he did not do so either when a great fire threatened us in Doñana, but it is also true that many of his companions, I do not know whether driven by the storm or driven by the polls, have accompanied us, even the President of the Government. All without exclusion have promised immediate, imminent aid, which I hope you will approve next Friday in the Council of Ministers, but I would like to ask you about something more important for us, for the Atlantic coast of Andalusia, for structural measures for protection, conservation and regeneration. And I strongly ask you, please, not to announce any new studies to me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u195	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I want to show my affection and solidarity with the people who have been harmed during the temporary pasts in their province, Huelva, and in the rest of Spain, and I want to say that from the very beginning the Government has taken steps to bring everything back to normal, as it has always done. Indeed, the president himself visited and took an interest in the area the next day and moved the commitment to work intensively, without squandering any means or efforts, to restore the damage caused as soon as possible. The general aid scheme set out in Royal Decree 307/2005 has already been activated, targeting, inter alia, those who have suffered personal or material damage to their habitual home, local emergency corporations or property owners. In addition, we have ensured that the damage secured in the agricultural sector has been quickly assessed, which has also suffered damage. Thirty experts have moved to the area immediately and are making the payment of compensation as quick as possible. We will also work to ensure that the beaches are in perfect condition as soon as possible, collaborating with the Junta de Andalucía and municipalities - as has been announced - so that it has been experienced these days in Huelva generates the least possible harm to all its inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Díaz Trillo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u198	Thank you, President. Thank you for the information, and I hope for the quick performance, but I'm going further. I tell you about the studies, because this very morning, after yesterday's meeting in the ministry, you announce another study. [[Show text]] I want to remind you - because I have the impression that while the Atlantic Ocean does its duties, you do not - that there is already a study of the year 2013 - another specific for Cadiz and Huelva - in which you acquire a series of investment commitments. [[shows a document]] That's why I'm telling you, they don't do homework. We've been getting barely crumbs, misery for years; this is David's fight against Goliath, and you're just using a few ounces or a few cubic meters of sand when you need millions. This same study says in its economic annex that for the maintenance and conservation of the beaches of Huelva, for example, you would need an investment of 6.5 million euros per year. Since 2013, the fateful year of the Coast Law - which unprotectes, which privatizes - you have stopped investing almost 40 million euros. Of course, you are not to blame for the temporary, but not Zapatero, by the way, whom you name so many times to apologize and who invested 11 million in his last period of government on the coast of Huelva. Therefore, take in-depth structural action to protect a first-class and also social and economic property. We'd appreciate it in Huelva and Cadiz. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u199	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u200	President, Your Honor, this government's policy for the coast and for everything is an integral, realistic policy with proper planning - it is very interesting for citizens that governments make proper planning - and of course environmentally sustainable. We are the first Government to have achieved coastal protection strategies - not the least of them, do not say that the coast or the environment is not taken seriously in this way - and Huelva is fortunately already in possession of the strategy for the protection of its coast. The structural problems in this stretch of coastline will be solved in this way. I must tell you that all projects for priority sections are already under way. We need these projects in order to undertake the investments required at a later stage. We are also the first Government to have developed a strategy to adapt the coast to the effects of climate change, but the Government is also acting immediately when temporary damage must be repaired through the Coastal Plan. In Andalusia in 2017 were almost 12 million euros the invested, and this year we will dedicate everything that is necessary, without sparing neither effort nor means, to recover normality as soon as possible and solve the problems that the temporary has caused to the people. We'll be here today and always with the province of Huelva... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u202	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent questioning by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport on the Government's educational model. For your defence, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are going to discuss educational models and how to improve Spanish education, because for us, for socialists, education is an essential, fundamental axis for the future of the people who make up this society. Socialists have always conceived and conceived education with the utmost seriousness, so we have contributed to a change of educational model, as is demanded. In education there have always been ideological differences. There is his model, the legacy of Minister Wert, reflected in that law full of negative aspects that the educational community does not like so much. No good can be heard from Lomce. Moreover, it questions serious constitutional principles, such as segregation in differentiated education, the right to participation, the choice between religion or values, the segregation of students by performance, the over-limitation of competences; all of them for which it has been appealed on more than one occasion before the Constitutional Court and on what is already a judgment. [[The lady]] Minister, it is a social outcry the need to end this law at once. That is why I am asking you today to stop vetoing this proposal for a law on the Lomce - up to forty-six extensions of amendments already - and to start moving urgently towards a new educational model that will end with so many negative aspects that it contemplates. Minister, we do not want to continue a law based on the principle of segregation by abilities or by sex; a law that stigmatizes pupils from an early age; a law full of excessive and dispersed curricular content; a law loaded with bureaucracy in the classroom; a law that complicates the lives of teachers with tedious, useless and uneducated tasks, such as the application of learning standards; a law that has achieved the greatest curricular dispersion among autonomous communities as it had never existed before; a law that does not advance; a law that does not put the necessary means or resources to properly introduce new methodologies that make a more comprehensive and inclusive curriculum; a law that obliges to choose between confessional religion or constitutional civic values and human rights; a law that closes the student rather than open them to the future; a law that forgets children's education from zero to three years; a law that marries the principle of primary education and that has broken the balance between the law of non-formal law and the law of non-formal education; a law that does not bring about law to the past law and the school. Minister, in the time we have been in the legislature we have not seen any willingness to amend that law, except to paralyze the invalids; Lomce has made inexorable progress. The Education Commission has adopted numerous non-legislative proposals that have made it clear that there is a parliamentary majority for many Lomce issues to be modified, but our feeling is that this Government has systematically used the Sub-Commission on Education to hold it accountable for finding solutions to all the criticisms and problems that were coming about about Lomce. This is what we call leaving office, passing the ball and not acting as a government, and that is to prolong the life of the Lomce, and in the meantime, the children of this country continue to suffer this retrograde and harmful law for their future. Minister, Spanish education needs urgent changes; changes that cannot be expected; Spanish education needs to move forward in a new educational model that guarantees the right to education, guarantees the right to learning, the effective right to inclusion in the classroom and a formative model that prepares for the society of the future for our children. If we want Spain to be fully integrated into this reality with guarantees, we need to be serious about education. The Socialists believe that we must face a new advance in the educational model that prepares us for the challenges of the future and tackle the knowledge society with guarantees of success and social cohesion. A new educational model must have the public school as the backbone of the education system; it is the heritage of all, it is an important axis of social, cultural and inter-territorial integration, and that is why the public resources needed must be guaranteed. The school, Minister, must be the primary element in order for inequalities of origin to be compensated through educational action, the school environment. Our children must be able to rely on educational resources, so that they can be guaranteed curricular materials and complementary services. And all this requires a policy of scholarships and aid for the fairer study than there is now. [[Applauds]] Fellowships cannot be a right subject to budgetary limitation, but a subjective right, with sufficient amounts and with certainty for all families. We consider it essential to move forward with inclusive education, adequately addressing those students who have special learning needs, but also those who have high skills. It requires resources, mainly human, teachers in the classroom; teachers who have the best continuous training in the updating of contents, methodologies and innovations that society offers day-to-day, not like now, that you in those autonomous communities where you govern have charged yourself with the continuous training of teachers. [[Applauds]] We also want the best possible initial training without forgetting the professional career and, of course, the necessary recognition and social prestige of the teaching career. The territorial reality existing in Spain and the role of rural school, which is so forgotten, whose priority must always be the pupil, seeking a balance between socialization, closeness to the home, educational quality and equal opportunities - equal opportunities, minister - However, the demand of more students to offer optativity, training cycles or high school modalities have been reflected in a lower educational offer, therefore inequality. Minister, adequate, modern and adapted infrastructure is also needed to meet the needs of our times; language laboratories, laboratories for experimental areas with operating computers, connectivity in the classrooms, professional training workshops with up-to-date machinery and sufficient means, which on many occasions are not due to lack of resources. And I hope you share with us at least the concern, because the measures already know you don't, to increase the number of pupils graduating in the ESO and to reduce the dropout rate in a real way, not with shortcuts to basic vocational training, so that our students can have a full life and opportunities in the future. This calls for a more attractive, motivating system and a greater offer of education, in particular medium-level vocational training, i.e. that vocational training must be enhanced and prestigious so that it can really connect with the needs of the labour market and enable lifelong learning. Vocational training has a strategic role to play in a new productive model that we want to develop in Spain, and once again, Minister, investment is needed to create new vocational training places in the sectors of greatest development for the future. The extension of children's education from zero to three years and ensuring a public place for those families who really need it is another challenge that the education system must face, because making progress in school success also requires early schooling. Improving communication in foreign languages is another challenge that requires model and also resources, starting with teacher training and continuing training and grants and scholarships for the linguistic immersion of students. The model and objective are clear to us: to introduce an integrated curriculum to achieve language proficiency in foreign languages at the end of compulsory education. And from foreign languages I move to another major challenge of the knowledge society: multiple literacy, the need to train in interaction with different technologies to acquire the skills necessary for one's own life and for society, in the present and throughout life. The current curriculum is designed for homogeneity and, as you will understand, not all students are equal and not all students need the same. Therefore, in the face of the curriculum of the Lomce, our children require a much more flexible model of curriculum design based on a set of essential learnings and with a much broader responsibility on the part of the educational centers, not just for the design but also for the development of the curriculum, that is, to fully develop what is the autonomy of the center. In addition, all pupils at the end of the ESO should have a certificate of competence, as is customary in our international environment, and be used to better guide post-compulsory studies and to facilitate continuity and return to training, because the education system should be considered as a set of interlinked training opportunities that are opening doors to students rather than closing them, establishing pathways from one way to another and minimizing irreversible options; that is, we want to make this conviction real that there must always be time for training and opportunities for training, a concept diametrically opposed to that of the invalids of their party. Following the model differences we come to a principle that is basic for us: that educational institutions be a place for learning a democratic culture, facilitating the effective participation of all components of educational communities, their ability to cooperate in the realization of an educational project and co-responsibility in the achievement of educational success. And together with the principle of democratic and participatory school, we want a school that integrates in its curriculum civic and constitutional values, values of equality, that is, Education for citizenship. [[Applauds]] And a secular school as a guarantee of common public values, a school that encourages learning. Cohabitation is a quality factor that must be built between the entire educational community and requires a process in which there are changes in the curriculum and in the organization of the centres themselves. Finally, the education system in a knowledge society needs to be accompanied by an educational R & D agenda, which is coherent and well funded, so that the teaching and learning processes are transferred to the initial and continuing training of teachers and strengthen the educational system in the face of changes, social, technological and cultural. And, as you will assume, this whole model and these challenges must be accompanied by substantial funding. We have told you on many occasions, we have identified the objectives, the needs, the educational demands, and the accounts with your proposal do not come out because there has been no real will on your part. I conclude this intervention by recalling that there are important ideological and political differences between you and us. You are the right, we are the left and that also translates into education. You are from Lomce and from the cuts and we are from equality, equity, inclusion, more opportunities and the deep belief, Minister, that education must be the transforming axis of the society we want, a society based on freer and more educated citizens, an education that truly gives way to the knowledge society. [[applause]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Socialist Group presented this question I was genuinely glad because I said well, let us know what caused the Socialist Group's appalled subcommission for the social and political pact for education. And I recognize you that I am, as an illustrious former member of your group would say, amazed because you have not said what everyone is waiting for inside this House and outside and that you have explained to us why you have abandoned the pact. You have made an intervention, and I say it to you without acrid, proper to the summer university, of a think tank and of counting the educational model, which is very good, but we are talking about politics, this is a Parliament and this is not the UIMP. We are talking about politics at a very specific and specific time. His intervention, if there was that time machine that HG Wells predicted and could bring us back in time, is from 2013. It is an amendment to the whole against Lomce. Very well, but we are not there because many things have happened since then and a very important one has happened that has had to do with this House and that is that here there has been an investiture vote by the President of the Government and in that investiture vote we have reached important agreements with your group, ladies and gentlemen. These agreements consisted, and I remind you of the debate on investiture, in which the Government would withdraw and temporarily suspend the effects of the assessments in ESO's fourth and baccalaureate and, in return, what we would do is go to a social and political state pact for education. And that pact does not come out of nowhere, that pact, ladies and gentlemen, was in the agreements that Mr Sánchez and Mr Rivera had concluded in the failed investiture of Mr Rivera, third chapter: To set up a table to reach a social and political pact for education that within six months would allow the elaboration of a legal framework agreed. That's what Mr. Sanchez and Mr. Rivera did. It didn't have any effects. It was reflected in the subsequent agreements between PP and Cs, point 78: To promote a national pact for education with the consensus of the political forces, to constitute a parliamentary subcommission in the Congress of Deputies that allows the elaboration of a consensus agreement within six months and during that period and until a national act is reached the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce will be frozen in all aspects that have not entered into force. Do you remember? That is the agreement we reached; agreement to which you had previously submitted a proposal for a law and I recall that in the debate on that proposal for a law, which was taken into consideration and to which you referred before and on which I will then return, I rose from my seat and said that in order to achieve the objective we committed ourselves to do so quickly because a proposal for a law, as you know, has a long time to process; and I undertook to do so by means of a decree-law. In addition, I was also committed to making that decree-law consensual with the autonomous communities. Well, I did. I agreed to it at the Sectoral Conference of Autonomous Communities on 28 November 2016; I raised it to the Council of Ministers, and it was confirmed by this House, Your Honor. And what did it validate? He validated the decree-law, which had two fundamental elements - which were also, by the way, those of his proposal for a law -: we suspended the effects of the assessments as long as there is no pact and we established a procedure to achieve that pact; and we are going to reside that pact in a subcommission of the Congress of Deputies. Hey, I had no special interest in living the pact in a subcommission! The government takes the leeway! But it was the agreement of this House. They were in that Rivera-Sanchez deal, they were in the Rajoy-Rivera deal, because we kept it, Your Honor! And from there, the subcommittee began its work, and I remind you that in the constitution of that Commission there were three groups that voted in favour; I think the rest abstained; but voted in favour of it together with PP and C's; the rest, abstained. Also, Your Honor, over time, the Conference of Presidents of the Senate decided that the Senate had to be incorporated, since this pact was to be made only in the Congressional subcommittee. Well, we agreed, Your Honor. There was a first debate on March 27, 2017 in the Senate, from there a presentation has been made in the Senate that is working and that is doing its job. Good. He's taking his course. The State School Council. On December 19, 2017, I asked you, Your Honor, to make a document on the school pact. It is doing so; it is working; educational entities, the educational community, social entities. And even more, Your Honor. The sectoral conference, where all the autonomous communities are present, on 30 March also asked me to prepare a series of studies on this educational pact, on specific topics of the educational pact. And as the minutes are - I repeat it here - I said that I had a political complication to accept that and it was that I, being the ministry part of the sectoral conference, was going to be judge and part of that pact since in the end it was the ministry that had to present the draft law on basic regulations. Good. But you told me that it was convenient, that it was important for the autonomous communities to join together - and I agree with that, of course - because if they are the ones who execute and develop the pacts legally it is logical that they are. And we have set up within the sectoral conference a group of autonomous communities that are working on all these issues, Your Honor. That is, we have the subcommittee, the Senate, the State School Council and the sectoral conference working on a social and political state pact for education. Good. We had a debate in this House on 20 September. Another question raised by your group. And you said, textually: You understood education by dialogue and participation, but we also want to make it clear that with consensus: agreement is achieved by dialogue, not imposing. These are your own words, Your Honor. Well, just a month ago, in Navarre Information said that consensus on education should be above the moment and political opportunism. And I agree with you. Why didn't you explain to us, when you came up here, why did you hit the scarecrow of the subcommission? Why didn't you explain it to us? Your Honor, you've been here ten minutes! He didn't even mention it! It's like it doesn't exist, Your Honor! You have told us about something that happened in 2013 and about educational models, but here we are talking about politics and you have not told us why you have hit the horror in the Commission. There are some who say that these are partisan considerations and political opportunism. But it can't be, because you're against this as it says in Navarra Information. It can't be political opportunism! It is a week in which your party has asked, first, for early elections; then it has asked for a question of confidence... You guys suddenly hit the scare on the Commission one day. That is what we want you to explain to us, Your Honor, why you have left the Commission. There have been 83 appearances in the Commission. The other day, last Monday, in Brussels, Commissioner Navracsics, who came from Brussels to appear before this subcommittee, asked me how the subcommittee was doing. I said there he was, working. Turns out there's still 83 appearances. Now you say no, it's going away, because we have to go back to the parliamentary arena. I thought the subcommittee was a parliamentary forum. Isn't the subcommittee a parliamentary forum? Of course it is. Isn't that year-and-year work worth nothing? You will explain to us, Your Honor - I hope you will explain this - what is the reason why you have left the subcommittee, because 8 125 000 pupils and 800 000 teachers want that social and political state pact for education, and they want it because they want Spain to have a stable and permanent educational model, because they want to incorporate all the innovations of the digital revolution, because all the international studies say that our educational model is good but that it needs a leap in quality, because we are taking important and positive steps in education in Spain, because the drop-out rate - when you were 28% - is now at 18.28%, because there are more and more people left studying, which is very important because it is an effective way to fight unemployment. Well, you'll have to explain it to us, Your Honor; you'll have to tell us why you're hitting the scarecrow and you don't want to continue working on that agreement. I have heard him say in his speech, where he has certainly not mentioned the pact, that what must be done is to resume the proposal of law, to repeal the Lomce through proposals of law. Is that what you're proposing? Do you really propose that? I'm going to tell you one thing, because maybe you don't remember how long it's been. The proposal for a law of 9 September, which this House adopted in its consideration, does not speak of repealing the Lomce, Your Honor, it speaks of the social and political pact for education. Your Honor, the laws cannot be repealed with 85 deputies and can't be repealed piece by piece. If you don't believe me, create, for example, someone from your group, like Senator Álvarez Areces, who in March 2016 said in the Senate: Repealing Lomce without putting another law that replaces it is to leave the children in limbo. Is that what you want? Is that what they're afraid of? What alternatives do you offer? He comes here today, he comes up to the rostrum in an urgent inquiry - we all hoped he would deal with the issue that is in the media these days - and he explains why the PSOE accepted the validation of a decree-law subject to the elaboration of a school pact, voted in favour of the creation of a subcommission to reside in it the school pact, asked for a Conference of Presidents through the presidents of autonomous communities to be debated in the Senate, asked for the sectoral conference to talk about the social and political state pact for education. After asking for an inquiry, he goes up to the rostrum and does not say a word of the covenant. Great. I ask you to tell me in the answer, not to me, but to all the members of this House and those who are listening to us, to the 8 125 000 boys who are waiting for the PSOE to give an answer to something he had committed to. Your Honor, I'm done, because I'm running out of time. There's a song from The Secrets, whose lyrics say, "I'm in trouble and I don't know how I'm going to get out. I think you're in that situation, Your Honor; you're in trouble because you don't know how to explain the horror you've given and you have no alternative to the current educational model, Your Honor. I hope you come up to this rostrum and tell me why you have given this frightened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I see that you are very concerned, very restless, rather than talking about the educational model, which is why you are Minister of Education. I have made an inquiry in principle to talk about educational models and I have told you clearly that there is a model, that of the right, which is that of the Lomce. By the way, in case you don't remember, the Lomce is in force, the Lomce continues to have the rejection of the educational community and the Lomce is suffering from those 8 100,000 students to whom you have referred. [[Applauds]] We've come here to talk about education, we've come here to talk about a law that doesn't want anyone - to see if they find out at once - and not to move on, which is what they've been trying to do for the last few months. We have sat down to talk about education all these months and we have done it with loyalty, we have done it with seriousness, we have done it with the responsibility that this parliamentary group and the Socialist Party have always had in the field of education. We have not come - as you did with the Lomce - torpedoing the educational system and attacking the fundamental, essential part, which is the participation of the educational community and with a tax model. And now, even if you don't like Mr. Wert's inheritance, you have to live with it, and you have to live with the inheritance of the cut-off policy as well. Minister, I will explain to you why we told you that until there was a serious funding proposal we were not going to go back to the work of the subcommission, its 3.67%. [[Applauds]] Its commitment of underfunding with Spanish education, the commitment of educational poverty that with its ridiculous proposal of EUR 5 billion will leave to Spanish education. I will tell you clearly what can be done with that EUR 5 billion, which is all you have been able to put on the table. We have a serious and rigorous study done by autonomous communities to reverse the cuts that you, with your policy and with that decree of 2012, have imposed on Spanish education. That report tells us that with its EUR 5 billion - for those six years - we would not reach even a third of the needs of the education system to reverse the cuts produced and advance the modernization of our system. If we accept this underfunding for the education system we are punishing, penalizing for time and time not simply Spanish education, but the future of the society of this country, the future of the economic model of development, Minister. [[applause]] That's what we're playing at. That is the consequence of the ridiculous funding proposal they make. I know that there is a clear difference between those who are betting on funding in the education system and those who are not. The accounts that you and your party have brought us to the subcommission table, curiously and interestedly, are as of 2015, when there was a change of government in most of the autonomous communities. I'll give you a couple of data. Its Secretary of State - who has been adviser to the Community of Castile-La Mancha - was the agent, responsible for an educational investment decrease of more than 29%. Do you know what has happened since 2015 until now? An increase of 14% in Castile-La Mancha. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you about the Balearics, 18% increase in educational spending. I'll tell you about Aragon, 27% increase in educational spending. I am going to talk to you about Extremadura, 6% of GDP, the highest percentage of GDP in all of Spain for educational investment. [[Applauds]] I am also talking about Andalusia, with a progressive investment of 5% of GDP. Valencian Community, we all know what has happened in recent years in the Valencian Community - it does not need to be remembered -, 15% increase in educational investment since 2015. That's betting on education! That's a bet to reverse the cuts! That is to bet on believing in an educational model that must be accompanied by funding! What for, Minister? [[Applauds]] To have teachers back in the classroom, to have better educational infrastructure, to have a policy of scholarships and study aids that promotes equal opportunities, equity and inclusion. All of that, it requires financial resources. Let's talk about the future, because you, as a minister, have not brought a single idea of an educational model. You haven't been able to give a show of real will to modify the Lomce that, even if you don't like it, I remind you it's still there. The only thing that's paralyzed is the cripples, the only thing. Meanwhile, the Lomce continues to do that damage with all the questions I have told you before, because there are differences in the educational model between you and us. I have told you that we believe in equity and equality, in free, trained citizens, prepared for the future, and you seem to want to believe in an educational system that goes backwards like the crab. I will end with a reference to popular wisdom, manifested through Mafalda, a great illustration of the social reality we have in Spain. We do not want what Mafalda predicts to happen in Spanish education, that by saving so much in education we will become millionaires in ignorance. Unfortunately, with that policy that you have brought and put on the table, that can be the prognosis of Spanish education: millionaires in ignorance. We do not want it, nor are we going to accept it, let alone with those cuts and that underfunding in educational spending. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you end up quoting Mafalda. I'm going to quote Mr. Meijón. Next to Mafalda, surely in your family you will climb many points. Statements by Mr Meijón in La Voz de Galicia on 7 August - he talks about the educational pact, that getting a pact is going to be complicated -: The first one who gets up from the table will have to explain to his voters why he did it. You have to understand that a pact means giving in. The pact is going to have a cost, that's clear, but it's going to cost us a lot more than there is. [[The lady]] I prefer Mr Meijón to Mafalda, Your Honor, because he is right, because we have to explain why he is leaving one of a pact in which he has committed himself to the educational community, in which he has been involved for a year and a half, in which the Senate, the State School Council and the Autonomous Communities are involved. You've come up here and you haven't said anything, the usual, that we're terrible and you're great. Nothing, Your Honor. Financing. Let's talk about funding seriously. The subcommittee agreed on 15 measures, 15 major axes. You have committed yourself to putting funding on the second axis. What did the PP or C's tell you? They told you something very sensible and that anyone understands - you don't have to be an educational expert - and that is that the cost of a reform is measured by the ambition of the content of the reform. It's common sense. Nobody puts the cart in front of the oxen. What had to be done, what is done in any negotiation - this would not have to be explained here - is to see what is being negotiated, what is the content, and then see how much it costs, not to say first how much we are going to spend without knowing what the content is. How are we going to ask the Spaniards to increase the amount of spending, of investment in education, without telling them what we are going to do, what are we going to change from the educational model? That doesn't make any sense. You have committed yourself to placing it on the second axis and when the second axis has arrived you have said: 5% of GDP. Before I explained to your partner why I think it is not good to use a percentage on GDP, but all that is debatable. You have committed yourself to 5% of GDP and, as you have not given them 5% - because I have nothing to do with this - because you have understood that it was unreasonable to talk about a figure when you did not know the content, you have dropped out, you have hit the scarecrow, just for that reason. Is this the way to understand consensus? Mr. Interpellant, is that the consensus? What you call consensus is that? It was said by a well-known British deputy and prime minister, with whom you have nothing to do. He said: consensus is that I say what I want to do and the others follow me. This is called the Fernando VII language tragala: either 5% or there's nothing to do, or you give me 5% without knowing what the content is - but I want 5% - or I go and catch the scarecrow. That's what you've done, Your Honor. You're going to have a lot of difficulty explaining this to the educational community. With your speech today you have given me the impression that you do not have the slightest interest in the pact, neither with 5% nor with 6% or with anything, because you have made an argument against the law and in establishing what are the differences in educational models, when the pact, as your colleague Mr Meijón quite rightly says, is to approach positions. If you go up to this rostrum, you don't count why you give the scare and you're dedicated to stretching positions, that shows a political will, which is: I don't want a pact. Say so, Your Honor, you have the right: I do not want the People's Party or the People's Government to obtain a pact in education. Say it, Your Honor. Explain it to people later, but tell them. I believe, as I said before, remembering The Secrets, that you are in trouble, and your group too, that you will not know how to explain this and that there are many people from your group and your party who want the pact because you know that it is important for Spain. Your Honor, I don't use terms like giving in or turning back; I just ask you to think. This is a matter of parliamentary groups, you want to negotiate with the government. This is a parliamentary matter, it is the parliamentary groups that in the subcommittee have to reach agreements and then bring them to the plenary and see where the majority is. This is not a negotiation with the Government; the Government must then submit a bill in accordance with that content. I ask you, Your Honor, to think, to think... - I don't want to describe it -... to think of people; to think of students; to think of teachers; to think of the many millions of people who were enchanted by this pact because they believe it is important for Spain; to think of them; to reflect, Your Honor. And let them think that, in the end, there is disposition. I said it on March 27 in the Senate: There will be no agreement without budgetary agreement. I am convinced of this, but you cannot say, when of the fifteen axes we have examined one, that you want a certain so much, that you do not rely on, or if there is nothing. Your Honor, these are not serious ways to agree, to dialogue or to respect this House. Therefore, I ask you to reflect, to get out of the mess, because by getting out of the mess you, I think we will give satisfaction and hope to all the Spaniards. And I think that is what is right for Spain right now and what our compatriots expect of us. Therefore, Your Honor, I do not tell you any more, think about it, give it a thought and let us continue working together on what you say is very important for your group - I do not doubt it - but it is also very important for the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-14-CD180314.u210	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was three and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
