ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before continuing with the agenda for the plenary session, I would like to remind Mrs Carmen Alborch Bataller, who, throughout her career of commitment to teaching, culture and public service, was a deputy in the VI, VII and VIII Legislatures, secretary of the Senate Bureau in the IX and X Legislatures, minister of culture, partner and friend. I think I gather the feeling of this House by conveying to your family - as I did yesterday - and to your close friends our condolences and by paying due tribute to you, keeping a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen, standing up, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary on urgent measures to implement the State Pact on Gender Violence. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. That is why, pursuant to this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before twelve o'clock. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 13/2018, of 28 September, amending Law 16/1987, of 30 July, on the organization of land transport, in the matter of the rental of vehicles with driver. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u3	Good morning and thank you, Madam President. Following its approval by the Council of Ministers on 28 September, I appear before this House to submit for its consideration the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 13/2018, amending Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the organisation of land transport, concerning the leasing of vehicles with a driver. In the months since the entry into force of Royal Decree-Law 3/2018 of 20 April, it has been shown that the measures envisaged were not sufficient to address the problems of mobility, traffic congestion and the environment, that the high increase in the supply of urban transport in tourist vehicles is causing in the main urban centers of our country. This royal decree-law is the answer to this need, which has the main objective of placing the VTCs in the competition field in which they must be, according to the activity they are actually carrying out, that it is urban transport, so that transport services that provide services to citizens are developed in a coherent regulatory framework, also guaranteeing fair competition between the two sectors. In this way, we will ensure the proper balance of the supply and demand of urban transport services in tourism vehicles, allowing autonomous communities and, where appropriate, municipalities that can adequately manage the internal mobility of travellers within their territory, and more effectively monitor the conditions for the provision of services in the light of the circumstances prevailing in their territory. Before derailing the royal decree-law I would like to explain briefly, as I had already done in my appearance on 30 August in the Committee on Development, the regulatory environment governing public transport in passenger vehicles - vehicles of up to nine places, including that of the driver - until the entry into force of this royal decree-law, in order to be able to frame the relevant changes contained therein. The transport of passengers in this type of vehicle is outside the scope of the European Union regulatory framework, so that its rules apply exclusively to each Member State of the European Union. In Spain, for example, there have traditionally been two types of public passenger transport in passenger vehicles: taxis, whose activity is regulated in the urban sphere by autonomous and municipal legislation, and in the interurban area by the legislative framework of the State, and the rental of vehicles with drivers, whose activity was exclusively regulated by the legislation of the State, with this being applied, whether the activity is carried out in the interurban or urban sphere. Prior obtaining of a municipal licence and compliance with the regulations approved by the municipalities and other local authorities, and in some cases with the regulations established by the autonomous communities, are necessary to provide taxi service in the urban environment. In any case, such legislation imposes a certain tariff scheme which includes clauses relating to the characteristics of schedules, timetables of services, vehicles, stopping points, etc. In addition, another authorization, called the VT class, is required to provide taxi service in the long distance environment. This authorization is granted by the delegation of the State through the Autonomous Communities. Such authorization shall be issued only to those who, on a prior basis, are holders of a municipal urban transport licence, granted by the local authority concerned, and may develop transport throughout the national territory, regardless of their destination, provided that the traveller has entered the vehicle in the municipality to which that taxi is attached. That is, if the taxi intends to do another non-urban service it has to take out an authorization, in addition to the license it already has. On the contrary, the rental of vehicles with a driver is a task whose performance was subject to the prior obtaining of an authorization of the type VTC, granted by the autonomous communities by delegation of the State. Until the adoption of this Royal Decree-Law, this authorization allowed for the provision of services throughout the national territory without restrictions on the basis of the origin or destination of the service, and consequently the holder could carry out his activity, both in the urban and inter-urban environments. This activity was not subject to any kind of tariff, time restrictions or timetables previously established by the Administration, unlike the activity carried out by the taxi. As is known between the two activities, the fundamental difference lies in the fact that VTC services must always be pre-contracted by any available means, either face-to-face, electronic or telephone, prohibiting the rules applicable to tenants to carry out actions for the capture on the street of customers who had not previously hired the transport service. Thus, it is not legal for a user to stop a driver's rental vehicle while travelling to then request a service or for these services to wait parked at strategic pre-established stopping points to attract the demand for services from potential users, as these are expressly reserved for the taxi. However, the services provided by taxis and VTCs today in some segments meet transport demands that are very difficult to distinguish, particularly in the case of services provided in the strictly urban and metropolitan areas. Technological change, smartphones and apps have changed the nature of VTC service. Previously it was not an urban transport service similar to that of the taxi, and now undoubtedly it is. Before, as everyone will remember, were the accompanying cars of sepulchres, weddings, for extraordinary situations, but never to make a frequent and recurring transport of travelers. When pre-contracting, the main distinguishing feature of VTCs, can be done through an application, and the time between the application and the start of the service can be a few seconds there is hardly any distinction with respect to stand-by. If we add to this the entry into the market of more than nine thousand VTC authorizations in the last five years, the proportion at the national level between the two modes of transport is currently placed in a VTC authorization for each six taxi licenses, becoming in some community a VTC authorization for each three taxi licenses or even less, and this, which are given on October 10, 2018, can soon be exceeded if new sentences arise. As I have already indicated the measures carried out have been insufficient, and in fact in 2013 the law was amended, in the year 2015 there was a real decree, in the year 2017 there was another real decree, in the year 2018 another real decree, in addition to the National Road Transport Inspection Plan, and the situation is equally conflicting. That is why we believe that the true magnitude of the problem has not been sufficiently addressed. It is therefore necessary to address the problem from a global perspective, and for this purpose this royal decree-law gives a concrete and, above all, lasting solution. The current situation as a result of the sharp increase in the number of VTC authorisations operating on the market, together with the possible additional incorporation as it said before a very significant number of new authorisations, resulting from the judicial proceedings still pending, have led to an intractable situation which must be addressed with decision. The rapid growth of this mode of transport, evidenced by statistical data, seriously jeopardizes the effectiveness of any policy addressed at the local level aimed at rationalizing urban and metropolitan transport, with the aggravating factor that local and autonomous administrations did not have any tools to act on VTC services. On the other hand, it is a true fact that the market conditions in the country's main populations, both in larger populations and in those with a relevant role in tourism activity, are being altered by the huge increase experienced by the number of VTC authorisations. This increase has affected almost instantaneously and very significantly the conditions and circumstances in which the services that have traditionally been provided by taxis, aggravated by the absence of a framework of fair competition between the two sectors, due to the existence of a totally divergent regulatory framework, and which is also the competence of different administrations: the state on the one hand and the autonomous and local on the other. This situation has led throughout the whole process to call for arrests and different protest actions. Faced with this situation, the current regulatory framework has prevented municipal and regional administrations from taking measures to regulate the operation of vehicle rental permits for drivers in urban areas. All these initiatives and regulatory projects that have occurred in the autonomic and local areas have been confronted with the fact that the current regulatory framework puts at risk the competences that concern the State to regulate the legal regime of authorizations, the VTCs, which enable transport throughout the national territory. All these facts that I have been telling you are forcing us to act in an indefatigable manner, and this royal decree-law is the answer to this extraordinary and urgent need that we are undoubtedly seeking to solve as a government. And we cannot forget that in a European context, in which one of the major challenges is to achieve sustainable urban mobility, the recommendations of the European Union are in line with promoting integrated mobility policies. It must certainly be mobility policies that integrate all its instruments, in which both the taxi and the VTC, as well as the other forms of mobility, have and must have a leading role. It is ultimately a question of finding a framework that, while respecting the competences of the State, also ensures that the autonomous and local authorities have instruments that enable them to develop their own competences in urban transport and mobility, and that gives legal certainty to the system with a permanent and definitive solution that avoids continuing with a continuous drip of normative measures, in many cases, often questioned judicially, and that does not address the core of the serious problem we face. In short, each level of activity has to be regulated by the competence of the area to which it relates. It is so simple: to conform to the competences that the Constitution establishes and that the activity deserves. There is no service in the urban sphere that escapes the competence of those who have the urban regulations, except the VTCs, who have a kind of universal license to operate, something so simple, so constitutional, so administrative that sometimes I think it is left until the debate on it. I would like to go on to describe the content of the Royal Decree-Law, which consists of a single article, four additional provisions, a single transitional provision, a single derogating provision and two final provisions. The single article amends a single article of Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the organisation of land transport, specifically article 91, and the general rule that public transport authorizations enable services to be carried out throughout the national territory, and without limitation on the basis of the origin or destination of the service, two exceptions are laid down. Firstly, in the case of authorisation for the carriage of passengers in VTC passenger vehicles and the leasing of driver vehicles, which enable only for long distance passenger transport. With the wording that existed the state authorizations for the rental of vehicles with driver have national scope and can provide services, among others, within the strictly urban one. Secondly, in the case of vehicle rental services with a driver, which must be started in the territory of the autonomous community in which the relevant authorization is domiciled. The wording of these authorizations was not limited by origin, although they were to provide services on a regular basis within the autonomous community in which the authorization in which it was based was located. However, there are two exceptional cases in which the previous rule does not apply and which are, on the one hand, passenger pick-up services at ports and airports, and which have been previously and expressly contracted. On the other hand, in the face of a cyclical increase in demand for rental services for vehicles with drivers in an autonomous community, following the establishment of a specific scheme approved by the competent body for long distance transport, and following the report of the municipalities concerned. In line with the objectives pursued by the Royal Decree-Law, the autonomous communities are empowered by the delegation of the State to grant VTC authorizations at the national level to modify them, provided that it only affects services developed entirely within their territorial scope, and is aimed at improving the management of internal mobility or ensuring control of the conditions of delivery with the existing proportionality criteria in this area. In other words, the decree permits, which does not oblige; therefore, when it does not oblige, it is obviously the state legislation that operates in any case. Enable, you don't have to. This provision respects the powers which may be conferred on local authorities, in accordance with the autonomous rules relating to the establishment or modification of the aforementioned conditions for the provision of rental services for vehicles with drivers within their territorial scope. The second additional provision, as I have indicated to you, provides for the establishment of a sub-working group, under the responsibility of the Committee of Directors-General for Transport, to share good regulatory practices and successful experiences that facilitate an orderly coexistence between the two forms of mobility, which was already set up on 3 October. The third additional provision obliges the Government to submit, within six months, a draft law amending the sanctioning regime in order to achieve the aims pursued, establishing new offences that adequately guarantee compliance with the conditions for the provision of VTC services, and which the Council of Ministers of 28 September authorized to deal with as a matter of urgency. A mandate is also established for the Directorate-General for Land Transport to empower the autonomous communities, and, where appropriate, local entities, upon request, to access the communication register of vehicle rental services with drivers. The fourth additional provision provides that, on an annual basis, the Ministry of Development shall submit a report to the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs analysing the results of the Royal Decree-Law, in particular developments in the regulation of VTCs in the main urban centres of the country, and their impact on urban mobility. This Royal Decree-Law has a single transitional provision in the first subparagraph of which provides for a transitional regime for existing State authorisations of VTCs upon the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law, and those that are pending resolution. In this sense, it is determined that authorizations may, for four years, continue to provide services without being subject to the new rules laid down. However, it is stated that transport services provided in urban areas by the holders of such authorisations shall be subject to all the determinations and limitations laid down by the competent body. The second paragraph of this transitional provision indicates that the four-year temporary authorisation is in the nature of compensation, primarily to compensate for the new territorial delimitation of the State authorisations of VTC that were granted in accordance with existing legislation. However, this paragraph provides for the possibility for undertakings engaged in this activity to apply to the Directorate-General for Land Transport for additional compensation where they understand that such authorisation does not compensate for the value of their licence to lease vehicles with a driver, although subject to certain conditions. This additional compensation will consist of an extension of the originally planned four-year period by the corresponding number of years. Exceptionally, the extension may be more than two years after the end of the previous period. The four-year period as an investment recovery period is in line with the calculations made by the technical services of the department, and in accordance with current legislation, and is estimated to be sufficient to compensate for potential losses, in accordance with the data and valuations available to the Administration. The last paragraph of this transitional provision clarifies that, after the time limit for the additional compensation, the authorisation will continue to permit the provision of long distance passenger transport services under the conditions laid down in the LOTT and in the rules laid down for its implementation and development. What does this mean? That under no circumstances, even though the conditions for the operation of such licences to operate at the interurban or urban Community level could be changed, they would lose their national authorisation. If today this House validates the text of the royal decree-law we will certainly have taken an important step, so that the citizenship of each territory, and also in its representations, can choose the transport in which it travels. The Government wants this to be the case and it wants the local government, aware of the specific needs of each territory, to make the most appropriate decisions for its people, taking into account a whole range of elements ranging from the strategy of mobility to the fight against climate change or the lack of transport services. Decentralisation of competition to a neighbourhood will only benefit citizens, because solutions will be proposed to suit their needs. This urban service that is provided to citizens is of obvious proximity. We are always invoking the principle of subsidiarity, invoking proximity, decentralization. I say again that there is still a debate on this issue. What is more accessible, closer, more decentralized than an urban service? [[Applauds]] I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Having analysed the situation and broadly ratified the reasons of necessity and urgency constitutionally required by the Council of Ministers of 18 September last, the Government decided to adopt this royal decree-law. We have worked very, very hard on this issue. It is clear that there are many interests at stake, that there have been them and that they are legitimate, each one defends his project, his business, his interests, but I have to tell you that from this ministry there has been no concrete interest for anything or anyone, because our obligation is to ensure the general interests, try to reconcile interests, sometimes very contradictory; but I repeat that that is our obligation. And we have also done so by thinking of citizenship, and obviously of the demand for new services, but also of the pre-existence of services that have traditionally characterized urban transport; and we do so in a very simple way, that some have had the lightness of interpreting it as a kick or as a way of removing the problem. No, to remove the problem is not to place it in the corresponding framework. What we are trying to do is to place this activity within its proper regulatory framework, constitutionally and administratively, in accordance with our legislation as a whole. We might be asked: Why wasn't it already? Because it was not the same activity, because these authorisations relating to certain services have changed in a few years as a result of digital platforms. This didn't exist before. It's funny, isn't it? Well, it didn't exist. Do you know when the Internet started? Not so long ago it did not exist, and as nowadays they are no longer characterized by weddings or sepelios but by something else called transportation in the city, the city will have to have competence to regulate. And if not, see what paradox can occur, that an autonomous community or a city hall rules over the subway, the bus, the taxi, the bikes, the skateboards, above all, but that an element escapes it because it has immunity and cannot be regulated, it is out of regulation. So, when we have to make an urban mobility plan we will say that we can integrate all elements except one that is free to be considered and free to be regulated. In fact, a debate on this at this stage seems absurd to me. Another thing is that the conciliation of the activity takes place in the relevant field, and this debate in Europe is outdated and nowhere is there state regulation; it is regulated by local, regional or autonomous entities, where appropriate. That's the normal thing. In a country as decentralized as this absurd thing is that the state has this competition, because in the same way that it has this competition, why not take all the others on buses, trams, meters, taxis, all? Or all or none. This is normal and this is called coherence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have only one minute, but on behalf of the Canary Coalition I want to say that Carmen Alborch's death is not just a loss for her friends, her family and her party, but for all the women in this country. I am very glad that you saw that 8 March 2018 and that at last the equality policy laws are in this Congress. [[Applauds]] Speaking of this decree, we consider it necessary but also absolutely essential given the chaos. In the Canary Islands we exercise our competence and have a law and a regulation; we have it quotaed to 1/30, there are only the licenses that had already been and we have also won all the conflicts, but we believe that this should be developed as a bill because there are competition issues that should be improved and issues such as the definition of long distance. But above all, Minister, in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands - and I say this because we have been with Mrs Armengol and the Baleares Councillors - we believe that the development of this decree that is coming today must be different for the two archipelagos given the current situation. We will therefore vote for it to be developed as a bill to resolve this issue, but if it does not come out as a bill, we will ask you for an urgent meeting with representatives of the two archipelagos. Finally, there is one request that we make that seems very important to us and that is that no VTC is allowed to be registered in the General Directorate of Traffic without the prior accreditation of the transport card. From Coalition Canaria we are strong advocates of the taxi sector, but we cannot put doors to the sea and it is the world that comes, as you have said, but on equal terms for the taxi and VTC sector. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Development. Ladies and gentlemen. The reasonable doubts raised about the constitutionality of the measures provided for in this royal decree-law and the legal uncertainty that generate evidence of the strategism of the government of Pedro Sánchez to overcome the very complex problem arising from the competition between the VTC sector and the taxi. As a result of the major mobilizations and strikes last summer, the Government made a commitment to promote and develop measures that would be the subject of the greatest possible consensus, the result of an open and transparent dialogue with representatives of the taxi and VTC sectors. However, the ministry has sunk in the attempt, has not put an end to this conflict over urban transport and urban and peri-urban mobility, and this regulation does not satisfy any of the parties. The transfer of regulatory capacity to the autonomous communities and municipalities to adjust the limitations of driver vehicle licenses has a trick, because they will only be effective, if necessary, in a period ranging from three to five years. In short, the Government wants to shake up the problem and very far away is that compromise, a compromise and a balanced solution when there are calls for this very morning - we have just seen it - mobilizations and protest concentrations of both sectors, which augurs for future conflicts after empowering other public communities, while they are also endorsed by the future expropriatory economic consequences and impacts resulting from the application of this more than improveable set of regulations, whose validation, Madam President, I will vote against.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u8	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the previous occasion that this debate has arisen in this House, that is, with the real decree of the previous government, our political formation, Euskal Herria Bildu, voted against, I think it was the only political formation of this House that voted against, and we did it primarily for a question, because in that real decree we imposed a logic and a reading, a vision of the social debate around the VTC licenses that was the vision of Madrid and Barcelona, was the vision of the big cities that live the problem in a concrete way - I do not say better or worse, but in a concrete way -, which made other realities, such as the Basque one, subject to decisions that could clearly alter their future development. This is remedied, and in this royal decree we are going to vote in favour because we believe that respecting the areas of decision-making, bringing decisions closer to the citizenry and seeking the regulatory elements in those who know best the problem that can arise from it is the right thing to do. We will also vote in favour because, unlike the way it was on previous occasions, we understand that in this royal decree we see at least two ways to approach this debate - and I think it is the right one -, to offer a public service with quality, guarantees and rights or to look for a business opportunity so that curiously those always continue to pile up also great fortunes with what they disguise as a collaborative economy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you will vote in favour of Compromis. We obviously welcome the issue of decentralization and proximity, and I like to hear it from you. I'd like that to be the norm from now on. In that sense, I repeat, we do like it. We do not like the decree very much, it does not seem to us to be a particularly brilliant decree, it seems to us a magnificent clearing of the autonomous communities and of the municipalities, which will be those from now on will have to face the pressure. In any case, I would like to point out one thing so that it is clear, and I believe that, if there are judicial claims, there is no guarantee who has to assume them and that the autonomous communities and the municipalities could deal with a problem that they have not created. It seems to us that there is no clarity in this regard. I insist, Compromís will vote in favour but without enthusiasm, without many scarecrows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u13	Thank you, President. In the minute I have to tell you telegraphically, Minister, that we are going to validate the royal decree-law, a royal decree that you have made without dialogue. You have 84 Members, you have 71 Members from Podemos, but this does not give them a majority either for the budget or for certain things. Therefore, we will ask for its processing as a bill for two reasons, two major flaws. From our point of view, the competences of the Generalitat are not guaranteed; the competence of the Generalitat is not guaranteed. We understand that from minute one, since the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law, a situation similar to that which occurred two weeks ago with the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court on Decree-Law 5/2017 of the Generalitat of Catalonia in this matter could occur. The competition field must therefore be shielded in accordance with the statutory powers. Another fundamental issue, to which Mr Baldoví referred, is that from our point of view there can be a patrimonial responsibility that will essentially fall on the autonomous communities. If you are convinced that this is not the case, simply accept the amendment that we are presenting that says that, in the event of any patrimonial liability due to the development of this royal decree by the autonomous communities, the consequences will be assumed by the General Administration of the State. [[Laughter]] If you are sure that this responsibility does not exist, you will have no inconvenience in introducing them. In any case, I repeat, we call for the Royal Decree to be processed as a bill and will vote in favour of its validation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u14	Thank you. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u15	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today it is up to us to deal with the Royal Decree-Law 13/2018, of 28 September, amending the Law 17/1987, on Land Transport Management, in the matter of car rental, but only in the aspect of land transport in the matter of car rental with driver, the VTC. The Royal Decree-Law claims to have as its object, like Royal Decree-Law 3/2018, to ensure the balance between the provision of services by VTCs and that represented by taxis, and therefore warns of the need to approximate the regulation of both types of urban passenger transport. He said that the new regulation had as its basis the problems of mobility, traffic congestion and the environment that occurred in the urban sphere, and understood that the high increase in the supply of urban transport in tourist vehicles caused a deterioration in the service, especially with regard to travellers, with regard to what was essentially two measures; the first, amending article 91 of the Land Transport Management Act to limit the scope of the VTC to long-distance services; the second, delegating to the autonomous communities with competence in urban transport the regulation and granting of such licences, which, moreover - and from now on - should be intra-Community. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the difficulties faced by the Government in dealing with the issue before us, because it is undoubtedly a complex and difficult-to-solve issue; it is also a matter to which the various governments have so far failed or failed to respond adequately. This is also a debate in which interests which have been represented as opposites are left to us, although we have a very serious doubt that there are no solutions - other than those which have been proposed or adopted - that could be useful for their balance, and not so much for the option of disposing of part of the content of the VTC licences from the system, which, being legally questionable, we believe is possible, but because it is a non-existent precedent in the field of administrative law and because it places the debate on another plane. Where there was a problem that was possibly a consequence of a situation of regulatory imbalance between the world of the taxi, which was hyperregulated, and that of the VTC, which was under-regulated and which was therefore causing a situation of competition in unequal conditions, an option has been taken, at least questionable, which is to remove from the scope of the urban service to the VTCs alluding also to a motivation that, with all due respect, we believe is insufficient. It should be remembered that we are talking about two different modalities of a service from those provided for in Law 6/1987 on Land Transport Management, and that so far they differ because one of them is characterized by the note of its consideration as a public service and is therefore subject not only to a licence but also to conditions in its performance of a high requirement and which also occupies about 65,000 vehicles throughout the State. In front of it we find another incipient sector, as the minister commented, that although it was born in 1987 with other characters, in the absence of regulation today occupies an urban transport space that has been easily accessible through digital platforms, and that, in some way, has popularized and facilitated it, which has caused the conflict; it must also be remembered that this sector, that of the VTC, occupies about 15,000 licenses. Alluding to the second aspect, which is that of competition, Royal Decree-Law 13/2018 does not define a concept that is inserted in it, which is the concept of long distance passenger transport, which implies that it integrates within that concept both the long distance transports that arise or that occur within the scope of a single autonomous community as those that can cross the limits of an autonomous community, those that flow outside the territory of an autonomous community. It should be noted that in this respect, the State has no competence because it transferred or delegated those powers in Law 6/1987 itself as a result of the provisions of Organic Law 5/1987, which means that the royal decree is exceeded when it is regulated. To that end, it should be recalled that, while this is an exclusive title of the State, it is only so in terms of its regulation and it is only so in terms of its exceeding the scope of an autonomous community. In the case of Euskadi this assumption is even more particular because the powers that are being exercised are as a result of an agreement of 1850 between the Foral Diputación de Álava and the then Government of the State which have been extended to the territories of Guipúzcoa and Vizcaya and which assumes that these powers are already transferred or delegated within the autonomous community. Well, that is an unfortunate aspect, as are others, and I would like to focus on one of them, which is the procedure for drawing up the provision itself, since, for the purposes of drawing up the actual decree-law, neither all the sectors involved have been consulted, as long as there has not been an effective consultation of the VTC sector, nor, above all, of the autonomous communities with respect to which there has also been an express act of distrust expressed at the sectoral conference and, moreover, - that is very much to our attention - there has not been consultation of the main sector involved, which is the user or consumer sector. If something has been missed, it is precisely this issue, because if someone is the recipient of this type of services, it is the users and consumers, and not because we say it or because the nature of the activity seems to indicate it, but because it is also pointed out in Article 4 of the Land Transport Management Act, which says that it is aimed at the adequate satisfaction of citizens' transport needs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also another aspect of expropriation and compensation which is quite questionable - I am going to finish because I am running out of time - and that is why we must say that, although the approach of the Royal Decree-Law does not seem correct, we also understand the need for action and appreciate the courage of the Government in acting. We believe that, while necessary, the action or measures provided for in this royal decree-law are not too correct. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u16	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u17	Thank you, President. Very good day, minister, deputies and deputies. At this point, we are discussing the validation of the Royal Decree-Law amending Law 16/1987 of 30 July on Land Transport Management on the leasing of vehicles with a driver. The first thing we want to say loud and clear is that Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia is a republican and leftist party and that, therefore, always, always, has always given support to the demands, demands and needs of the working classes of this country, of the small self-employed, who make long working days in order to be able to arrive at the end of the month and pay all taxes, and of the SMEs, which are the ones that endure the real economy and the productive economy. They will never find us next to the speculative economy or the one that takes refuge in tax havens to tax less or directly not to tax. Therefore, out of responsibility and also out of conviction, today we will do the same and vote in favour of the royal decree-law. But it is true, Minister, and I say to you without acrid, that this whole process of drafting, approval by the Council of Ministers and validation of this royal decree as a government has carried it very badly. It seems to us that it is a patch, that they try to buy time, that they have not entered the bottom of the matter and that, as it is said in Catalan - and as Valencian who is will understand it perfectly -, qui dia passa, any empeny. In addition, you with this royal decree transfer the problem to the autonomous communities - my colleague Joan Baldoví, from Compromís, has explained it very well, is a clearing to corner -, with which he did not even sit to talk before the adoption of the decree to try to agree a common position. So much so that it is difficult for the State to disengage from its competences, in this case the miracle has been performed and in a record time they are disengaged from them and it is decided that yes, the autonomous communities are good to regulate. Minister, we believe that this royal decree lacks solutions that would be definitive and we see that the desire for dialogue, negotiation and consensus on the part of the Government is scarce or directly null and void, and that is why we want guarantees, but not verbal guarantees, that words are carried by the wind, but by guarantees that are real, firm and in two ways. The first guarantee is that the powers of the Generalitat are shielded, that is, that if the Generalitat regulates and reaches agreements, they are not challenged and appealed by the State. We as an independent republican party always, always, always defend and defend the competences of the Generalitat of Catalonia. We've always done it, and now so have we. How many times has the State ignored the powers of the Generalitat? A lot. How many times, in the face of competing conflicts between the Statute and the Constitution, have in the end prevailed the criteria not favourable to the Generalitat? Almost always. In fact, we defend both the competences of the Generalitat that we want them all, we want to be a state to exercise all the competences and thus regulate and solve the problems of citizenship. [[Applauds]] Second guarantee. If the application of this royal decree results in disputes and in possible future judgments, property responsibilities arise, which do not fall on the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, to shield these two guarantees, we call for the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill to introduce amendments in this regard. I say one thing to you, Minister, I wish we had sat down during the drafting of the decree and had reached an agreement on these two claims which, on the other hand, are of common sense. I wish you would have sat down with the adviser of the responsible Generalitat and could have reached an agreement earlier. If this had happened, and the will of our parliamentary group to agree, we had it from the very first day on, then it would not have been necessary to proceed as a bill. Therefore, out of responsibility, out of coherence, in defense of the working classes and the small autonomous of this country and in defense of the exclusive competences of the Generalitat, we will give our affirmative vote to this royal decree and we will already meet during the process as a bill. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u18	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u19	Mr. Ábalos, you bring us a decree that generates enormous doubts, both in form and in substance. As for form, the extraordinary and urgent need is not just seen in a decree that postpones its effects between four and six years. [[Applauds]] In addition, we believe that they may be entering fields that are reserved for an organic law. As far as the substance is concerned, although there are things we agree with - you talk about harmonisation of taxi and VTC regimes, although you don't; lifting of barriers to the taxi, which you don't; setting up a working group consisting of taxis, VTCs and administrations, which postpone for later, and avoiding intrusion and sanctions, which we think is very good - there are a lot of things we can't agree with. We cannot agree to the destruction of market unity. You, in the face of the problem that your partners have generated in Barcelona, divide it, thus multiplying it. You have talked about a coherent regulatory framework to avoid - you said - a drip of measures, but this is the solution they give. How many regulations are we gonna have? Is that a good idea? When Europe is tending to regulatory homogeneity in order to have wider and more competitive markets, is this the solution we give? Of course, we cannot agree with the legal uncertainty that is to be created either. The VTCs entered taking advantage of a legal business opportunity, the famous bus law that you passed. I do not blame them, because you were merely adapting a European directive, but now you are seeking to allow covert expropriation. You have said that VTCs have to have a role in mobility, but you turn it into wet paper, because what you do is open a confiscation period to four years. This is the solution you give. [[Applauds]] You know the legal problems that this is going to create, but the one that comes after you pull. There is a study by Ernst and Young that says that compensation could reach 3.8 billion; 888 million for Catalonia, lords of PDeCAT and Esquerra, and 166 million for Valencia, lords of Compromís. Look how curious, you propose to compensate the VTCs and we propose that you assume some of the transitional costs in the sector. In any case, are you going to make the Spanish pay 38 billion? Are these going to be your radials? [[Applauds]] Of course, we cannot agree that the solution to the transition problems of a sector is to close the sector, build barriers and prevent new players from entering. Yesterday Mr Pascual, from Podemos, spoke of the externalities of the private vehicle, which include time lost by users, the occupation of public spaces by parking lots and, of course, pollution. It is therefore necessary to offer the citizen alternative means to the private vehicle. We are seeing it here in Madrid, from the Emovs, the Car2gos, the bikes, the motorcycles and even the skateboards, and the citizens are appreciating it. At this point, one has to ask who favors this decree. Not to the owners of the VTC licenses, of course. Nor, by the way, to the collection. There's a study that says about 750 million could disappear if the VTCs disappear. It will not favour consumers, those seven million users who have downloaded the application. I'm sure there are them between you and your friends and family. They haven't been asked anything. And, of course, the decree will harm the more than 15 000 or 20 000 drivers of VTC companies. More than 69 000 direct and indirect jobs can be lost, says one study. I have here a letter in which, in addition to calling for a stable and quality working environment for these workers - with which we agree - it is said that it is essential to create a space for dialogue between all the agents involved, taxi and VTC - something we agree with - without losing these jobs - with which we fully agree - Members are asked, calling on their responsibility, to reject this decree. Are you laughing, Major, is that funny? This letter, as you all know, is UGT's, it doesn't look like we're asking for such uncanny things. [[shows a document.-Applause]] But if it does not benefit citizens or VTC workers, it will at least benefit the taxi. Or not. Well, we don't think so. Obviously, they may find it tempting for the government to eliminate competition in the short term, but the case is that we do not know what the autonomous communities will do when the competences are delegated, they could make even more favorable regulation for VTCs. What if they were allowed to enter the segment of the stop or the street pick-up? In any case, the decree in the medium and long term does them a weak favor. In this you have gone to trailer Colau and his partners - and Mr Mayoral, who was laughing - who have imposed on you a manichean vision of this matter, a vision of good and bad and therefore of zero sum. If you see that the mobility sector is a constant cake and a new agent arrives and takes a piece, it remains less to be distributed, but this is not a matter of zero sum because the mobility sector is a growing sector, with increasing restrictions on the private vehicle, which is changing, with new technologies, with new habits, with new agents. And in this growing and changing sector there must be a powerful and competitive taxi, and we will not succeed in lifting barriers and throwing away competitors because so the taxi will be worse prepared when the next technological disruption arrives, which will arrive. In short, gentlemen of the Government, this decree only favours you. We have seen the absolutely descriptive enthusiasm expressed by the spokespersons of the groups who have said that they will support it, even if no one likes it. You cannot count on us to support this irresponsibility because we have not changed our minds on this matter and you have. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u20	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u21	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the efforts of the taxi industry, the efforts of the people who work and who defend their jobs and their living conditions in the face of attacks by multinationals, those who have been doing popular pedagogy in our country and defending a progressive tax system against the big transnationals with headquarters in tax havens, who have models of extractive economy and who have as one of their purposes tax avoidance. It is worth remembering what taxes are for, and what those who evade them do, having seats in tax havens: attacking schools, attacking hospitals, and attacking public services. [[Applauds]] Many thanks to the taxi workers because we all have a debt and the working people of this country also have a debt to the taxi sector, essentially because they again show that strikes for the working people are useful, they serve to defend their working conditions when attacked by transnationals. [[Applauds]] Thank you for the example and thank you for proving once again that David can defeat Goliath. I honestly don't understand why when we talk about this we only talk about VTCs and taxis and we don't talk about transnationals. Let us focus on the problem; and the problem has been a repeated attempt to build a monopoly controlled from tax havens, an attack on our country because those who have an economic model to control the urban transport of travellers from tax havens are attacking our country. But I have not heard any parliamentary spokesman condemn - condemn! - the threats that transnationals have made against representatives of popular sovereignty wanting to gag us for denouncing their anti-social activity. [[Applauds]] We want to tell you from this rostrum that there is no transnational corporation based in tax haven that is going to gag this parliamentary group. We want to thank the industry for its work. And we also want to remember, because you forget a lot, how these transnationals came. Now they speak and use VTC; but when they came, their business model neither VTC nor autonomous nor milk, what they proposed was that people work without contributions and work without declaration. I remind you of an application called UberPop that had to be knocked down by workers in the courts. Nobody talks about it. These companies are anti-social companies that attack democracy. [[Applauds]] And it was the struggle of a sector that precisely allowed us to be here today. It is likely that this royal decree has shortcomings; it also had the previous one, but we are sure that we will agree, even with the devil if it were necessary!, to defend the living conditions of the working people in our country, that is why we have agreed with De la Serna just as we have also agreed with Mr Ábalos. [[rumors]] Let no one have any doubt: when it is necessary to defend the interests of the working people with us they will count, let no doubt be left to anyone. [[Applauds]] I would like to remind you that we already said that the previous royal decree did not give tools for its effective fulfillment, that it was a toast to the sun, that people were told on the one hand to the sector that was talking about 1/30 and to the extractive transnationals were told: do not worry that it will not be fulfilled. And it was seen when the first public administration wanted the law to be complied with in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, tried it and faced an antisocial employer and something we have to talk about in this House: with the National Commission of Markets and Competition!, which seems more and more the national commission of defense of monopolies. [[Applauds]] We have to talk about that, about what the National Commission on Markets and Competition is doing defending those who want to set up monopolies in the transport sector and also in the housing sector - I would like to remind you - where they are defending tourism and the real estate bubble precisely from a headquarters of an agency that should be defending public interests! We haven't seen him. And it is precisely when this resource occurs that the largest strike in the known sector of history is held and they should be thanked for standing up to defend public services, to defend working conditions. That is what we have to do from this House, thank you, and you have to thank not only this House but the whole popular movement. This week we have seen again that this project of economy is not only for transport, they not only want to make this monopoly based on the precariousness and overexploitation of the people who work, no, no, they want to do it also with the waiters, with the cleaners, with the telephone operators! The Uberization of the economy is coming! [[Applauds]] It is now coming, against labour rights!, against a tax and tax system that guarantees public services! And we and we call on the people's movement as a whole to be alert, to unify all possible forces in the face of the attack on the country. Be patriots for once!, do not defend the interests of Delaware and the Bermudas!, defend the interests of Spain and the interests of Spain are the interests of the people who work and make this country work, and not those who come to suck public resources and shut down businesses and destroy jobs! [[Applauds]] I mean to conclude that this is a change of scenery, it is not the end of the war against the Uberization of the economy, which is a war faced today by many States, all the States of the world against the power of the big transnationals. This contradiction is between democracy and the power of those who do not stand for election and want to restrict citizens' right to control their resources and to control their cities democratically through voting. Today the fields are beginning to be defined, and this is the result of an agreement after a labour and social conflict where the working people have managed to start changing the framework. But we want to tell the ministry, the autonomous communities and the municipalities to cooperate. Vultures are strong and it will be necessary for all democratic forces to be united with the popular sectors to defend the country. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) May-En Comú Ponde-En Marea, stood up, addressing the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u22	Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u23	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. I had doubts about what kind of intervention to do. Moreover, after listening to my predecessor, I could also try to get on my shoulders, that when the taxi sector comes out to the street, I applaud to rabies, but I think that today this debate deserves another style, not because it does not share the style they have, and it deserves another speech. As I say, I might decide to come out here and be applauded by mine, but I will try something else, and I know it is complicated; I will try to convince those who have taken a position in this House to change it from what I say. [[Rumors]] Yes, I know they are not going to change it for a reason, because we have changed the logic of parliamentary dynamics, which is that when a speaker comes out, he tries to convince Members what they have to do. If not, do the citizens say that what we are here for, to decide beforehand what we are going to vote for without listening to the speakers? Honestly, I'm gonna try to change your mind, though I don't think I can get it. Seeing the debate I believe that most groups believe in the suitability of validation, in why we have to validate the decree, because it is a decree that removes uncertainties in the taxi sector - which is an important part - but I will raise something else. Discussions are under way and groups are considering whether to open the debate on whether to treat it as a bill or not. I will say what I believe are the cons of opening the debate on the bill. As you know, the sector has been in a situation of uncertainty for a long time. We have seen how for months the sector has manifested itself and, above all, families do not know what it will be tomorrow of their future. I believe that opening the melon of the bill, opening the melon of what can happen in the coming months, of what amendments can be adopted and whether in the end they will have legal validity or not what they can do, first, is to generate more uncertainty in the sector - I think it does not deserve it - and, second, it can ensure that in the end the decree does not comply with the legal guarantees or guarantees that the municipalities and the autonomous communities can regulate the area they have to regulate, with which in the end the decree, which many here do not like, is a worse decree and does not comply with the characteristics that they must have. That's why we have to think about it, which I think is important. We politicians and Members have an obligation, and our obligation is to understand the problems, and in the taxi sector we had a very simple understanding of the problems. Why? Because the majority of Members to move to Madrid take a taxi, and I ask you a question: How many of those here when they took a taxi have asked the driver about this conflict, about their vision of the conflict? I think we have done very little; surely the taxi driver has told us his vision, but I think we have the problem of not understanding a complex issue. It is true that the decree is complex. It would have been much easier to present a decree like the one made by the previous government - I do not criticise it because we also support it in the validation - and not to open the melon. We could have written a simple paragraph, surely it would have been easier to validate it, it would have been much easier not to open the debate, but we believe that a debate and a problem as complex as this one needs a decree that is complex. The minister has perfectly explained the reason for the decree, the logic of the decree. Also, keep one thing in mind: in this time, in the last years and in the last months, we have heard tiredly how some people said that this has come to stay, and I wonder: What has come to stay? The technology? Yes, we assume that technology has arrived to stay, but what we are not talking about is technology, but whether the sectors competing in the same market have to have different regulations or not; I believe not. We are debating whether sectors have to be deregulated or not; I believe that sectors have to have regulation, because what practice has shown us, what history has shown us is that when there is no regulation the weakest, the workers, the people who need politics, it is the one who loses. Therefore, what we have done in this decree is to say: we believe that a sector that works in the urban sphere, such as that of the VTC - today it works mostly in the urban sphere - has to be regulated by the urban sphere, as is the taxi sector. That is the logic we have applied. Today, when I was coming here, like many of you who entered the Chamber, I saw how many people in the taxi sector were showing up. They are people who only work so that tomorrow they can have security in their future, in their families. I have read many messages in recent times about how the taxi sector is moving its concern, and I wonder: Is it worth it that we continue to open the debate and that many families - some say there are one hundred thousand families - from this country continue with the uncertainty of what will become of them tomorrow? I do not think it is worth it; it does not deserve it either by political strategy or by trying to win a parliamentary debate. I believe that politics and politicians have to be above all that: we have to put ourselves in the head of the people we represent, we have to be able to think of the citizens who vote for us, we have to try to be in the head of the citizens when deciding what we do. In addition, we believe something else: this process we may have done better or worse, but we have heard everyone, also the VTC sector, the same times we have heard the taxi sector; we have heard the autonomous communities, we have heard the municipalities, we have heard the political parties. Does anyone think it would be possible to bring here a consensus decree with all these parties: political parties, autonomous communities, municipalities, taxi and VTC sectors? Frankly, those of us who have experience in politics know that it is very complicated, so we decided to do one thing, better or worse, that was to listen to all sectors and transfer it to a decree that we believe is the best. Therefore, it is worth voting in favour of him, it is worth not opening the debate, because it is not worth having a hundred thousand families in this country in a situation of uncertainty about what is going to happen. The people who are on the street are going to be happy because the decree is validated, but they are going to be afraid of their future, and that is something I think we cannot afford in this House. The nationalist parties have proposed that they are not satisfied with the decree and I can understand that they would have liked to put in some things; I recommend other formulas to do so, to guarantee certain things. Let's not get the cab industry out of here with the bitter feeling of not knowing for many months what's going to happen to it. I think that the sector deserves it, that the workers of this country deserve it; I think it is worth it that the economy shows a different model, a model in which regulation guarantees better conditions for workers, for users, but that in no case guarantees, because that is what we are seeing in many sectors, that people live worse. I believe that this is not the model that this society deserves, it is not the model that workers deserve, and that is why I call for the validation of the decree and I ask that we not open a melon that we do not know how to close. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Herrero Bono has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is bringing to this House the validation of Royal Decree-Law 13/2018, amending the Land Transport Ordinance Act on Driver Lease Authorizations. In 120 Government there are already twelve royal decree-laws that this Government presents in this House. This is the way to govern, on the basis of decrees, that this weak government has and to elude the General Courts to run our country. [[Applauds]] Colleagues, this is a royal decree-law that is born with the sole aim of removing a brown from the top, of kicking forward, of passing the ball to the autonomous communities and contenting its radical partners of government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real decree-law that little or nothing comes to solve the problem that affects millions of Spaniards, tourists and users who move around our cities. There I must give you reason, Minister, as you have already stated, this decree does not please anyone; it is that it cannot please anyone. Antaxi, which is a taxi association, announces that it will resort to the four-year moratorium period for VTCs because the measure is compensatory. Fedetaxi, another of the associations, threatens to denounce Fomento to the European Union for what value if the four-year moratorium is considered a State aid. And both UGT and the Free Transport Union have asked all groups in this House to reject the decree. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unconstitutional piece of legislation to disperse, distribute and remove the problem, passing responsibility in a hidden way to the autonomous communities, with a clamorous lack of respect and institutional loyalty. Tell the truth, Mr Ábalos, your aim is that the next manifestation of the sector is not in the Paseo de la Castellana, at the door of your ministry, but rather before the councils of the seventeen autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] And it is true, Minister, that you did not bring together the Autonomous Communities, but instead you did bring together the Puemite municipalities of Carmena and Ada Colau. Is it another payment from Dr. Sánchez for his stay in La Moncloa? Why didn't you sit at the same table for all the injured entities - taxis, VTCs, autonomous communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, users - to make a decision? This is yet another example of the lack of dialogue, the lack of a political waist and the weakness of its mortgaged Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we were talking about the bad forms of this government, but it is more complicated to talk about the content of it. In this royal decree-law which is set out there is an extraordinary and urgent need to regulate the service of the VTCs, but, at the same time and in order to compensate the holders of the authorizations of the VTCs, it is established in this royal decree-law to maintain as until now and for four or six years the authorization of the VTCs to continue operating in the urban sphere. Tell the truth, Minister, here the extraordinary and urgent need you have is to pass the hot potato to the autonomous communities and municipalities. [[Applauds]] This is a joke, Minister, a joke but of very bad taste for the whole parliamentary arc. But it is also that this decree is - let me say this - constitutionally very questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this royal decree-law is, as far as the provision of long distance services for VTCs is concerned, to confer powers on the autonomous communities, depriving the Spanish State of competence. And that, Minister, let me tell you, is a flagrant discharge of duties from your ministry. These are just two examples of the inconsistencies, legal deficiencies, that retort our Spanish Constitution in order not to solve the problem and send it to other institutions. This is called incapacity, this is called insolvency, and this is called inefficiency to help a sector as important and as necessary as the taxi sector. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the taxi sector needs our help, because, as I say, it is a necessary, fundamental sector and, above all, of general interest. That is why, this same year, the previous People's Party government team, in a responsible and coherent manner, allowed coexistence between the two sectors to be maintained. In the Community of Madrid alone, more than 120 000 authorisations had been applied for, which would have ruined the sector. What would have happened if the People's Party government hadn't made that laudable decision? Ladies and gentlemen, if this decree is validated, my parliamentary group is going to request that it be dealt with through the draft law, for two fundamental reasons: the first, in order to nullify the unconstitutionality of this decree and thus be a legitimate measure for the taxi; the second, and now yes, in order to include effective and necessary measures in favour of the taxi sector. Measures such as the inclusion of taxis within the harsh sectors, non-retroactivity for the overall calculation of retirement, the tax exemption for the property gain from the sale of auto taxi licences or the integration of the taxi sector into the territorial transport consortia. There is also another type of measure to be implemented by the Madrid Community, which is, by the way, governed by the People's Party, starting on 1 January, such important measures as the fixed rate in zero-emission services, the tariffs as maximum rates in pre-contracted services or the long-awaited taxi shared in pre-contracted services. All this with the idea of making the taxi a more modern, more attractive and more competitive type of urban transport. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the taxi, we are talking about the VTCs, but what do the users think of the Spaniards, those who visit us, the tourists, those who use that kind of transport? My group, in addition to meeting with the various associations of taxis and VTCs, who, by the way, are in the guest gallery and whom I send a greeting, have also contacted users through the Consumers Council, and have asked us for two things: the first, which want agile, sustainable, economic and quality mobility, and the second, which have the freedom of choice to use any type of urban transport, taxis, VTCs, metros, buses. But, above all, they want and want cities of the 21st century, cities adapted to the new times in a country that is constantly growing economic and social, and that it is the new technologies that facilitate our daily lives. And there they will find us, Minister, ready to continue working to give what the sector needs. Therefore, we continue to reach out to him, willing to leave everything to help them but do so in a coherent, sensible manner and in accordance with Spanish legality. Thank you very much. [[Mr de Fomento, Mr Ábalos Meco, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u26	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that I am not going to change your position or your account at all. It was not my purpose, this House has long lost that role, as our spokesman for the Socialist Group said. The pedagogy has already fled this House and the attempts to convince, at least from the rostrum, are a melancholy effort. This has been the case for a long time, and I am not going to say that it is the failure of parliamentarianism, but of genuine parliamentarianism. It is obvious that here speeches are made, at best, in front of the gallery, that is, for those who listen to televisions or other media. I imagine that the speeches are built for them and for them, of course not for the interest of the House, because if every effort had been made to listen to my speech, some of the statements that have been said here today would not have been said. If, after I come to this House on 30 August at the request of the groups - also, why not, on our own initiative, of this Government - to set out our position - 30 August, it has been almost two months - and after having raised the same debate with the same arguments, there is no evolution or maturation of any of the positions here, it is simply the failure of the dialogue, but not because this Government has not wanted to dialogue. We have dialogued formally and informally even with those who do not want to dialogue; and the department has done so in its entirety, from the general direction - even below, the technicians -, the secretary general, the secretary of state, myself, we have all engaged in different levels and conversations. But today I find the same stories; some of them are not even original because I have already read them in reports and letters that have sent me, and not precisely signed by parliamentary groups; some in particular is literal; it is brought from another side. I'm going to stop on some issues. Look, if anyone brings here a decree thinking I'm going to hear that I've done great, quiet that I'm not going to be surprised or surprised how much I've heard. But if everything had been done right before, we would not have this debate, among other things, because good faith has already been put in place, because the decree brought by the previous Government we all support it. Then good faith was already there; it has not been by good faith or consensus so it has not worked. It didn't work because it didn't solve anything. Rather, yes, it solved one thing and that is why we voted for it: to stop the resources before the courts to continue obtaining more licenses; for that it served. But that deceptive formulation of 1/30 when that situation was no longer taking place and when there was no instrument that would lead us to comply with it, well, we are all doing well and we are all cheating, but we are not solving anything. And if we had resolved it, we would not have this debate; and if it had been resolved, I, immediately after taking office, would not have found the Castellana blocked. Or is it that in a week it also gave me time to generate this problem, as I have come to hear? Man!, let's not force things so much, that sometimes we don't know if it's critical or just animateversion. Because, of course, I've heard it said: decree, this morning I even hatch. Decree, axe, listen, why does everything we socialists do end up in 'zoo'? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You know that in grammar all that ends in 'azo' is disrespectful, and so I interpret it; it is simply addressing this group and this government in a derogatory way. Now, I'm not surprised either, it's the usual. But the same always happens, the People's Party governs, the loyalty of others; the Socialist Party governs, everything is axe, decree, knee. But, well, we're getting older and we're integrating it into our lives. Within that age, I have long learned that one does not have to be aware of what others say or do, because that escapes one's responsibility and always pollutes one's will. You have to do what you have to do, and I've come here with the consciousness that I do what I have to do, and the free consciousness that I have not suffered any kind of pressure, I'm not conditioned by any pressure from anywhere, and it gives me no vertigo to make a decision. Therefore, I take the decision now, at this time, and I do not postpone it for the processing of a bill in which we will see ourselves exactly the same as now, with the same stories, with the same pressures, with the same impotence. What do you want? To rot the subject? Keep rotting him? Or simply, in the interest of other interests, reverse what is proposed here? Since we have no clarity, we have the courage to do things and to say here on behalf of who we are. The truth is that coming here to use the UGT, what a grace it makes me! When we talk about labor reform, they bring me that role too. [[Applauds]] When we talk about labor reform, they bring me the position of the UGT and defend it in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] It is not true that the effects of this decree will be postponed. Moreover, even though it is treated as a draft law, the decree will have full effect and will be able to deploy its effects. Who said we have to wait four years? What kind of confusion is that? Four years is what will be available to those who have permission to continue their activity, but in the meantime the municipalities can regulate from now on, that is, they could already be doing so, and the autonomous communities too. I don't know what fear this is of taking on competencies. It's clear, when you're asking to leave the state... it's sometimes giving me the feeling that some people want to leave the state but leave us the VTCs in Spain. [[Applauds]] Man! I already know that all management is problematic, but it is for everyone. It's just that managing is taking on problems. What's this about diverting him to the corner? Is the corner the autonomic administrations? Is that the corner? The municipalities are corners? I just didn't understand what the problem was. I'm telling you, the issue of responsibility. Here the study of a consultant, which I am not going to quote, has been cited as a source of authority in order not to incur the publicity that the other rapporteur has made. But with all due respect to the studies of the consultants, I, who appreciate this State and this Government, govern who governs, deserve more respect from the Advocate General of the State than any consultancy report, governs who governs. [[Applauds]] They are respected and respectable services and I think we would do more favor by commending the work of these state services than by coming to advertise other consultancies at the request of their own clients. If something has this decree and therefore perhaps irritates some, it is very much studied from the constitutional perspective. Are we going to have to find out now whether it is constitutional or not that transport within a community is the competence of that community? Does this have to be rewritten? It is that the Constitution already says so, and as it says it is not necessary to make any organic law, this issue is clear. At first we were warned of this to be dissuaded, but as it is no longer this, we are threatened in another way, we are warned in another way. At one point they were I don't know how many billions of patrimonial responsibility and now it's getting less and less. But I'll tell you what patrimonial responsibility is like. In principle it is always of the State, so tranquillity, that argument is not, it is always of the State. Why? Because this is an act of State from which the following acts are to be derived, we do not lose that responsibility, and because authorizations are not confiscated because they persist over time. There will be no authorization to be lost unless the authorized person decides to return it, but there is no confiscation, let us not be mistaken. Even if the conditions of exploitation were changed, the authorization persists and will be regulated by the State. We empower those who want to take over the competition. For those who do not want to assume it because it scares them, because it is pressure, because they do not want to incur expenditure, because they do not want to waste time, because they do not want to be put up with the manifestation, which for me is good but for the rest is bad, they do not need to manage anything. Moreover, some will thank you that I do not manage anything. Enabling, which does not require, and in any case always the authorization granted by the Autonomous Communities on behalf of the State will remain in force, nothing is confiscated. What's going on? That the conditions of exploitation are changed. Ah! that the conditions of exploitation cannot be changed? Then we would be faced with petrified authorizations. Imagine the one who has a 19th century authorization for this from technological competition; and cannot change the conditions for decades and decades, lest we confiscate him for changing a condition of exploitation? Now, the taxi, which is used to changing operating conditions, is the greatest example, never loses the license for it, but it is changing conditions. Then, the change of conditions does not require any compensation. However, as we know of the uneasiness of some for the compensatory issue, the decree introduces it rather as a clause of security and equanimity, and precisely the spokesman of the People's Party has recalled that some taxi guilds have resorted to that part; what it does not say is why they have resorted to it. They have resorted to it because they understand that no compensation has taken place. But we, as we want to cover ourselves with legal certainty, cover the eventuality and say how to respond in case there is any compensation for appeal and for someone to estimate it. So I have not just understood the argument of some spokesmen who want more security at this end, for which they adhere to this flight ahead of the processing of the royal decree as a bill. The decree-law clearly states what compensation consists of, how it is calculated - something very important to avoid arbitrariness - and how it is compensated, and compensated in kind. So, calm down, because there are no radials; radials are for you. [[Applauds]] By the way, the Government that you have been supporting until when you no longer supported it or your own. Then there's no covert expropriation. Now, do you want to go on with that story? Keep going, but you won't be right about that. It's not about getting into competition. Do you know how to compete if you believe in the free market? Introducing favourable elements in the regulation of the activity. If there is an innovative, competitive service, with strong demand in the market, which some even think of the total future, what fear is there of having the same regulation as the obsolete service and the past? What's the fear? I say that you should not be favoured from the regulatory point of view. Why does the obsolete and past sector have so much regulation and this innovative, competitive and demanding sector need to be free of regulation? I just didn't get it. If it already has advantages in the market, there is no reason to give it regulatory advantages, but simply to impose the same level. That's called equity. By the way, there is no market unity in the urban sphere in general. The market unit is given in each urban area; that is the market unit: only in each urban area. But don't tell me about market unity between different cities that have nothing to do with it. Do you know what the main problem is, and it's been said here? That this problem really doesn't occur in all of Spain, it doesn't occur in all the cities. It occurs in some cities, in a few, too, in very few. So, given the specificity of the problem, that contributes more to the absurdity of national regulation for three, four or five situations in Spain that must be regulated where the problem is, not where it is not. And where he isn't, they don't have to be alluded to, because, I repeat, we enable them, we don't force them. We only empower those who have a problem and have a responsibility to deal with it. Those who do not have the problem need not act, and those who do not have the responsibility to deal with it are not even forced to act. So there's no market unit, come up with something else. The European Union leaves the urban sphere out of the idea of a single market. It's the only thing left out, so what can be invoked? That is, with regard to the single market for taxis there is no problem, they can have seventeen regulations or eight thousand municipal ordinances, no problem. There's no single market there, is there? [[Rumors]] I see you making a lot of gestures, gentlemen of Citizens, but I'd like to understand you better. Do you know what the problem is? That I cannot, as has been said here, improve the taxi. I can't because I have no competence in anything but VTC. That's why I don't have a problem. I do not want to remove the problem, but if you want us to do urban mobility policy from the state - which is crazy because there is no principle of subsidiarity, there is no competitive framework - if within that misconception you want the state to regulate urban transport, give me all the elements and we make the urban plans, but give me the tram, give me the metro, give me the bus, give me the taxi, on which I cannot regulate, give me everything, or everything or nothing. But what is it about having a single urban element outside of urban policy? So, when someone says that a sustainable mobility plan needs to be drawn up in such a city, I develop everything, rationalise, distribute, but there is one element that I cannot control and in some cities that element is fundamental to be integrated and in others it is irrelevant because it does not exist. The same has been said by the spokesman for the Canary Islands Coalition, who has already asked us that it is not the same on some islands as on others, and we are faced with the fact of insularity. For this diversity reproduces throughout Spain and that from a national framework is impossible, unless we say: we will normalize in the following cities and in the city such conditions will be these and in the city which these others will be. Does this make sense? So it seems very good to me that you want to stand up to defend what you want to defend, but I also tell you that you know what it means to approve the bill: it means, on the one hand, not to face the problem, it means to delay it, it means to be in uncertainty, in the most absolute uncertainty for the sectors, and that is not to give peace to anyone, because moreover nobody is certain of the life and process of that bill; it only interests some, those who like the conflict - sometimes I understand that already by vice - and others who do not want to lose the framework of favor that they are having so far. So, in that sense, they can't make a speech against capital and against it and I don't know what to end by saying that this is going to be treated as a bill. Actually, I just didn't get it. Or one thing or another, but the two things are not and the 'blessing' either; being well with everyone is impossible. That too has been criticized, which I said no one satisfies, but it is that objective and equanimous issues, as they do not satisfy any specific part, often do not entirely like either side. But that was the purpose, balancing. He who wants everything for himself is never happy, but he who in the end understands that we always have to distribute and that we all have to count, will find a possibility, always a possibility, of satisfaction. And I tell you that I've met a lot of people in the sectors - with those who really work, not those who have to come to represent what -, with those who really work and all of them, whether they like it or not, understand this rational measure. From there, as always, it remains to your good judgment. I don't want to generate controversy, but I can't help it either. My purpose was simply to clarify some extremes that I believe the royal decree contemplates and yet gave me the impression that they were unknown. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u28	At the time of the reopening of the debate, I will give each group two minutes to reply and then the Minister will have the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen! Silence! Mr Bel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u29	Thank you, President. Minister, I will try not to be very sour in my answer but, of course, if it is so bad to reopen the royal decree and process it as a bill, what is absolutely incomprehensible is that you bring here a royal decree and do not negotiate it before; it is incomprehensible. [[The Minister of Development, Ábalos Meco: It is not true]] Yes, Minister. They committed themselves, they pledged their parliamentary spokesman to send us the royal decree before it was passed and it has not been true, it has not occurred. So don't say it's okay. They have no absolute majority. With absolute majority they can do whatever they want, but if they don't, they can't do it. So don't say we're guilty now. We defend what we believe we have to defend that they are the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya and its budget. And if there is no patrimonial responsibility, and it is so clear that there is no patrimonial responsibility and it is certain that it will be assumed by the General Administration of the State, introduce what we proposed to them to amend. It is so easy and so simple, Minister. And if not, make an effort and tell them to resume only with the majority that will today validate the royal decree for this issue and for this topic. So easy and so simple. Therefore, now do not say that uncertainty or that families remain... no, have thought about it before having approved it, Minister. Really, he has our offer of dialogue. Now, if you believe that dialogue is a contract of accession, that's how it's going to go and with the budgets it's going to go exactly the same way. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u30	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen! Silence! Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u31	Minister, this isn't the first time it's happened to you. You rule as if you have an absolute majority and have 84 deputies. The same has already happened to the Minister of Finance in the first vote on the deficit path. If you want this legislature to go ahead and those of us who voted for the motion of censure against the PP to vote for their initiatives, we have to sit down, dialogue and reach agreements. What can't be done is that we get the royal decree two hours after it's passed by the Council of Ministers because they need our vote to take it forward. When you and your spokesman told us that it was an inconvenience to be treated as a bill, we sent them our two demands, the two guarantees we asked for and that they are of common sense: shielding the powers of the Generalitat and shielding for the autonomous communities in case of judgments of property responsibility. They told us: calm down, we'll find a solution to shield it and we'll get it to you. We're still waiting. Therefore, since there has been no debate with our group or with the Generalitat, we now ask and vote that it be treated as a bill for this debate to take place throughout the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u32	Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u33	Thank you, President. I am not going to repeat my speech because I see that the story has struck you, but I would like to say two things about what is good and what is not. The consultancy study we have presented may or may not be valid, but the truth is that it has not presented any other alternative. [[Applauds]] You have virtuously said that it is the report of the State Advocate. They're not always worth it; let's remember when the State Attorney recommended them to defend Judge Llarena. [[Applauds]] In addition, with regard to documents that are valid and not valid, you mentioned the letter from UGT. We've shown it for two things. On the one hand, to show you that we are not defending anything that should be alien to you right now, since UGT is also fine with it. On the other hand, to show you that it is you who have changed your mind. Do not give me back the letter, because it is you who have to be consistent with it, not us. Finally, what is already difficult is that Parliament's failure is that you have failed to convince us. Hey, this is going in two directions. [[Applauds]] Let yourself be convinced for us, because I sincerely believe that we have stronger reasons. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u34	Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u35	By clarifying the position of our group, in case anyone had any doubts, we are going to do what those who made the strike this summer asked us to do: that we vote in favour and validate this royal decree, but that we do not transform it into a bill in order not to open uncertainties and to facilitate the regulation of the sector as soon as possible in the autonomic and municipal sphere. I am very sorry that some parliamentary groups do not really say what interests they are defending. It's okay. Say it, people have a right to know. Don't talk to us about "Youth Ernesto." Tell us about who commissioned that report. Say you're here defending the interests of transnationals. It's okay. [[Applauds]] It's a legitimate interest, but it's not ours. We're pretty clear that ours isn't. Those consulting reports are there for every taste. Also the taxi sector and the working people have reports in another direction. We can choose the reports we want; we just have to see what social interests we want to defend. To those who, from positions of defence of national pluralism in our country, raise doubts about validation, I would like to say that there are mechanisms and ways to guarantee this, but that at this moment it is necessary to bet on the resolution of the conflict and the strike, which is the result of the dialogue between the different actors. I think one question is compatible with another. I have a certain national identity, but right now, you have the national identity you have, we all have to make it clear that national identities in the end have to respond to the human beings behind them, to the working people who make the countries work. Let's put on the flag we want, but today the threat that working people are living on the five continents comes from transnationals, to which they do not like to pay taxes but to exploit working people as much as possible, without rules and with the law of the strongest. We believe in democracy in the face of the dictatorship of transnational corporations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u36	For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u37	The second part of this speech is interesting, because now what we do is blame ourselves, to see who is to blame for what is going to happen here today. What I am very clear is that those who are not to blame are the 100,000 families of the taxi, the people of the taxi that is manifesting outside and the people who want this decree to come forward today; and I say today. Those are the ones who are not to blame, and that is what we have to think about when we vote. If we are not thinking about that, we may think about other interests and justify them in any way, but I have already said before that it is worth thinking about the people of this country who see how every day, although technology is advancing, they live worse. That's a logic you can't hold on to anymore. We defend all workers, everyone, whatever sector they are, but to defend the workers of this country there has to be regulation. I ask you not to do one thing: that we do not finish this debate and get out of here saying who has been guilty of it being validated and not being treated as a bill, because surely none of us will blame ourselves. I will say: All of us who have participated in this debate are partly guilty and, if we do not have the ability to see that we are part of the solution and also part of the problem, a bill will be opened to see how we change the decree, but I have one thing very clearly: we will reach nothing. Does anyone believe that by opening a bill after today's debate, parliamentary groups will reach a consensus? Does anyone believe that? Frankly, today we have a responsibility to think about the families working in a sector, who want to continue working, and the users, who want to continue having a public service and to be guaranteed conditions. That's what we're going to defend. I believe that we have a great responsibility, as the Minister has said before, which has also explained all the doubts that existed. No one's going to change position. And I repeat: Why are we here 350 Members of Parliament? What is the point of parliamentary debates if we do not have the capacity to listen and if someone can convince us with their arguments? Today's parliamentary policy has shown...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u38	You have to finish, Mr. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u39	...that she's old-fashioned, that she has to change and I think it's a good opportunity to prove it. Let us think of the people who are on the street, the workers and their conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Herrero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u41	Thank you, President. Minister, this is no language debate, this is a hundred and twenty days of government and twelve royal decrees that you have brought to this House. What problem do you have when it reopens as a bill? What problem do you have in dialogue with all parliamentary groups? Have you called a parliamentary group to go to your ministry to deal with this matter? You, on July 29, said you were going to request the meeting of the Territorial Transport Conference. Did he? You speak of dialogue but, as I say, this parliamentary group has been waiting from the very beginning and we have not received a single call from you. If you wanted to have a dialogue, you could have done so; I have asked the spokesman of the Socialist Party and I am waiting to have a dialogue. We, in the previous royal decree-law, established the basis for maintaining the coexistence of the sectors. You, with this royal decree-law, do what you do is open up legal uncertainty within the transport sector. In addition, I would like to recall that it was you, the Socialist Party, who passed the Omnibus Law and the liberalisation of the sector. Or do you not remember when you were a Member of this House? Our objectives are clear: to maintain coexistence between sectors, to maintain market unity and all this in accordance with the Spanish Constitution. That is why I again extend my hand to you and say that we are ready to negotiate, to help you, but do so in a coherent, sensible way and in accordance with the institutions that we have marked. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u43	Thank you very much, President. Many thanks to the rest of the parliamentary groups for the debate. We'll try to get better and better. This is a learning path, I do not deny it; but for my part I have tried to speak quite, not always in person but, as I say, through different department officials. I have spoken with autonomous communities, and I do not want to open any debate, but it is not true that I did not speak, it is not true that I did not dialogue, it is not true that I did not accept amendments, we are simply considering the validation of a decree that does not allow amendments. In any case, as everything continues, we will continue to meet and debate. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u45	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the point concerning the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives, and in particular on the proposal for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, on urgent measures in implementation of the State Covenant on Gender Violence. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martínez. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Pause.-Continue the rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence! You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u46	Thank you, President. Well, it's nice to see how once again the People's Party, when we're going to discuss macho violence leaves the Chamber. Really, it's hard afterwards to sit down and talk to you. [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]] I am speaking today on behalf of my group to move our position on the outcome of the presentation to amend the Organic Law on the Judiciary and to move some of the measures that were in the State Covenant on Gender-based Violence. I am glad that my group will, of course, vote in favour, as we have already done in the Commission and as it could not be otherwise, because in order to broaden the feminist agenda that this Parliament needs to have, but it is a critical vote, so we have moved it to the Commission, so we have moved it with the amendments that we are going to discuss here today and on which I will say a few points. First of all, it is good that we make a policy on feminism; it is good that we make a policy on sexist violence because in some issues and in some strategies we still do not agree. I would like to remind you that the first intervention that I had in this House - in the first intervention that my group defended on gender-based violence - we were left alone - without the People's Party and without the Socialist Party - supporting an initiative that had to do with evaluating Law 1/2004. How things have changed, two years and years later, that today we can have a parliamentary tool to discuss uniquely and exclusively about sexist violence! What if it's not worth doing politics on this subject! So let's keep doing it. And that's why today we want to insist on four things. The first of these: we do not understand why the Socialist Party is doing this, there were 214 measures in the State Pact plus private votes. Why are they choosing some measures and not others? What are the priorities? Why are you more concerned about what has to do with the Organic Law of the Judiciary and only choose these measures and randomly leave others out? And why, when we table amendments, you do not accept them. I think the answer is very clear: it is because it costs money, and you have to be very brave to invest so much of the State's General Budgets in macho violence. We hope that they will change their minds about some of the amendments during this debate, although it would certainly be difficult to expect this because they have not done so before. The second issue is what has to do with training, and this is a debate that we have had a long and long time in this House. You continue to talk about gender-based violence, you continue to say that sexual harassment, physical violence, psychological violence, even material or economic violence is machismo, but only when it occurs in the context of the partner or ex-partner. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to update the laws of our country to respond to what the people already think. It doesn't matter if the man who mistreats you, the man who insults you, the man who rapes you is your husband or is a stranger who passes the street or is your brother. All this is macho violence, the street thinks so, it's our laws that still don't agree. [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]] That is why we do not understand why the Socialist Party, when we ask you, please, to include in what has to do with the training that is also spoken for legal operators of training in sexual violence or trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, do not accept it because in the end this means that there are women who, when they go to court, because they have been raped, continue to ask them whether they have closed their legs properly so that they are not raped. What has to happen is that there are men who do not rape and not that women close their legs, and this paradigm shift is the one that the Socialist Party is not yet able to accept. [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]] Thirdly, there is the question of the courts. We want more judges. In my country, Galicia, there are only two exclusives, one in Vigo and one in Coruña; it is absolutely insufficient. The means are not available, the units are not adapted, the legal operators are not trained. We want more exclusive courts, and it is also evident that these courts can not only focus again on what happens to couples or ex-partners. Or is it that those who have been raped are not entitled to all that we do grant to victims of male violence in the context of the couple? Why do you refuse to allow the courts of violence against women to also judge crimes against sexual freedom that occur to any woman? If any man can be an assailant and any woman can be a victim, why do you strive to put a dam on this issue? Again I think we are going to be left alone in this, and it is very disappointing; above all, because this law was introduced in the heat of the judgment of La Manada's trial, and it is that the Socialist Party again with this proposal is making the victims, like the Manada's victim, unable to access any of these issues. All the rights we're giving to the rest of the women would stay out for the raped. You are victims of first and second with this reform which, as I have said, we will support, even in a critical spirit because it is somewhat disappointing. Fourthly and finally, many of these issues should have been done before. When many of you in this House were already debating this, I was a little girl and I didn't even know what the Judiciary was. For decades now, you have been talking about the fact that there has to be mandatory training for the judiciary. Let us hope that decades do not have to pass to achieve all this, but above all let us hope that decades do not have to pass because there is a feminist spirit that has crossed this country and changed it from top down and also from left to right. You are committed to continuing to leave out this subject of change a number of people and we will not share it. Feminism includes all those who want to fight for the equality of men and women. By the way, since Angela Davis has been in Madrid this week, all the women: the racialized women, the poor and the rich, the transsexual women and those who are not; they all have to be part of the feminist subject, and there, in this, they will find us. In the meantime, we will continue to be very critical of you. What is clear is that if we do it together we will be able to have a state that is feminist and in which all people are in. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u47	Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I've taken the joy that I have two and a half minutes instead of one. This week has been terrible: before yesterday a woman was stabbed savagely in Seville, another woman who had burned the previous week died, and yesterday a terrible fact was published that in this semester rapes to women in the Canary Islands have increased by 50%. We have to reset ourselves, we have to go back to this and, in the meantime, we read judgements with value judgments, we hear transcripts of trials where we ask attacked women who have survived if they resisted enough. I think it is a problem of culture, of formation, and I think it is not enough what we are doing, moreover, if we anchor ourselves in believing that it is enough, we are wrong. There are already more deaths from gender-based violence in this country than there are from terrorism. Unfortunately, for many years we had thousands and thousands of councillors, politicians and judges with police escorts in the battle against terrorism. If the dead had been for terrorism, would we have changed the decision on means, escorts, protection and sentences? I think so. We have to change this country, we have to do more than we are doing, and what we have done over the past few months is just a start. This cannot be a political battle, it has to be a consensus, we must accept the contributions of the whole world and not point the finger at it. That is why I am going to support all the amendments tabled by Podemos because I believe that something they do, which is not enough, but goes beyond what was agreed in the paper. I think that, over this, we need to review it again. Children cannot continue to die, women cannot continue to die, but above all there cannot continue to be judges, prosecutors and prosecution lawyers who denigrate the victims when they have the courage to face a trial and report. This country doesn't deserve it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u50	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we started this week's debate with an initiative by the People's Group which was intended to break one of the most precious and important things for me in the state pact that we are dealing with today and which we are still talking about and developing. [[The Lord]] They tried to come up with an alternative consensus, break the consensus generated around the state pact, and that is putting at risk many things, ladies and gentlemen. I told him on Tuesday and I repeat it today, because today is the way to consensus, to generate great consensus on issues that are important to everyone and on which we all recognise that we must work and modify. Certainly, if we address the issue of gender-based violence, it is important to train or change the judiciary, and that is why I am grateful that today the minister is accompanying us in this debate. It is understood that the training of judges and the specialization of judges are key to understanding and developing new policies in this regard. That is why we will support this initiative to develop each and every one of the points that develop the state pact that we and all the groups in this House support. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u52	Thank you very much, President. The procedure that we now follow in adopting the proposed Organic Law on Reform of the Judiciary on Urgent Measures in Implementation of the State Covenant on Gender Violence is a further step in a long way to remove the obstacles that prevent women from fully enjoying their fundamental rights, equality, freedom of life and security and non-discrimination; removal of obstacles that oblige us, like the rest of the public authorities, to the constitutional mandate contained in its article 9.2. Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women violates and impairs the enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms and is a real drama. It is the most brutal manifestation of inequality between men and women, and it has been responded to by the public authorities in a growing but insufficient way, as it continues to occur in our society and therefore remains a task to be accomplished. It is in this sense that we said that what we approve today is one more step, after others that have already taken place in the fight against this stigma that accompanies us as a society. I recall as important milestones that precede the proposed law that we will adopt today, the Organic Law on Domestic Violence Measures, with the various amendments to the Criminal Code, or the regulation of the protection order, or the Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection against gender-based violence - by which courts of violence against women were established - or the Organic Law 3/2007, on effective equality of men and women, in which more than thirty laws were also amended, from the Fiscal Statute to the Civil Prosecution Act, through the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act to the Organic Law on the Judiciary itself in such areas as the selection and training of judicial and fiscal careers and the specialization of criminal courts in the area of violence against women. Today we are trying to improve it through its expansion and in compliance with the State Pact on Gender Violence of 28 September 2017, to which - as you all know - autonomous communities, municipalities, trade unions, civil society organizations and the General Council of the Judiciary have joined. The State Pact, whose measures, 159 and 160, are aimed at deepening the training of members of judicial and prosecutorial careers, both judges specializing in gender-based violence and family and juvenile judges, and, in addition, at increasing judicial training in anti-discrimination law, including gender perspective and cross-cutting in opposition at the Judicial School and continuing training, making this subject compulsory and evaluable. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these measures are now being completed with the proposal that we adopt, through the inclusion of specific subjects in the selection and specialized training tests at the Judicial School and the continuous training of fiscal and judicial careers. Also in the establishment of specialized evidence for access to specialized judicial bodies on violence against women and in the promotion of the specialization of criminal courts, its number and deployment being extended to all provinces in an exclusive or shared manner. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by congratulating myself on the unanimity with which we are going to pass this law, which is a step further, but not enough, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to remove the obstacle to achieving equality, development and peace goals posed by violence against women, as the United Nations already recognized in 1995. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Telechea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Our vote on this amendment will be positive because, as we have always said, the Republican Left of Catalonia has always made it clear that talking about gender-based violence is talking about sexist violence, violence that has its cruelest expression in the murders of women at the hands of men. Machist violence is not only the result of unacceptable and atrocious personal attitudes, but is the consequence of a structurally patriarchal society, in which machism resides and is legitimized on a daily basis. From the media - where patriarchal stereotypes, cartoons, child advertising campaigns of toys are reinforced - to the unfair professional distribution of roles and salaries. From Esquerra Republicana we will not tire of fighting until we achieve a society free of prejudice, ending the heteropatriarchal roles that prevail in our society and that always end in an idea of very concrete and largely accepted masculinity that translates into hegemony of domination. Domination in which it is essential and urgent to influence, carrying out a deconstruction of the concept of women-man relations from freedom and equality. It is important to take into account all types of machismo, such as micromachismo. For example, let a woman be questioned about how she's dressed, whether she's provocative, or whether she's drunk more on the count; when they tell you that you can't think about football because that's men's business; when they tell you that you should be a little more feminine; when they question your working attitudes in certain technical positions or responsibility for the simple fact of being a woman. Most times machismo and micromachismo usually go unnoticed and we naturalize it as something normal, harmless, but it really isn't. And today we are adopting a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on gender-based violence, and I welcome the fact that there has been a very broad consensus in this area, because we must not only raise awareness of the society in which we live but also of the judicial system itself. How is it possible for a woman who is a victim of sexist violence to receive justice if the court itself is a sexist? An example of this is the one we have seen recently in the news, the cases of Judge Francisco Javier Martínez Derqui, head of the Court of Violence on Women No. 7 in Madrid. There have already been many complaints against the magistrate for the humiliating treatment of victims of macho violence, including those of the lawyers themselves in the same courtroom. Victims of sexist violence have the right to a trial with all guarantees, to have no questions or to have no relevance to their statements, since, in most cases, assaults, whether physical or psychic, occur in the most intimate area of the family, where there are almost never witnesses, except the victim himself and his aggressor, and because, moreover, the victims have gone through a very harsh internal process until they are able to report. Therefore, judges and magistrates must have special sensitivity to this issue and specific training to ensure that victims are guaranteed and protected their rights. This is the objective of this reform, which introduces evidence of specialization in violence against women with the aim of ensuring that judges acquire specific knowledge in this field, both in the opposition phase to the judicial and fiscal career and in the practical theoretical course at the Judicial School, as well as in the continuous training throughout the exercise of the judiciary. It's a first step, which we celebrate. But there is a long way to go and a lot of work to be done, work that we must all do with courage and responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u56	Thank you, President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we bring to this rostrum an opinion on a law that implements measures of the State Pact against Macho Violence. I would therefore like to thank all the members of this presentation by the Committee on Justice, the Bureau and the lawyers for their dedication, speed and efficiency in organising the work. My group, Citizens, tabled five amendments to the bill and all of them have been approved and incorporated into the paper, so I would also like to thank the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to dialogue and negotiate and, above all, the groups to which it has cost us a little more to convince, such as Esquerra Republicana, Podemos, Compromís and PNV. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law will improve the training and specialization of judges with regard to male-based violence. It's important, yes, but, of course, it won't be enough. Among all the parliamentary groups we have reached a state pact with 214 measures against this violence, a pact that has been adopted for more than a year, one year more than a month, and this is the first opinion of a paper that includes only some of the measures of that pact. In addition to this bill, we are currently amending another bill that has been brought by the Government, and I believe that we need to take this opportunity to include all the measures that require legislative development there through amendments. - I repeat, all of them. As my colleague Marta Martín said on Tuesday, our group has already tabled these amendments, a total of thirty-three. From here we encourage the rest of the groups to do the same to work swiftly and thus incorporate all these measures into our legal order as soon as possible, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent: this week three women, Fatima, have been murdered in Seville; Maria, in Alicante; and Yolanda, in Pamplona. Interestingly, the three of them had reported it. They asked for help in one way or another and did not receive it, for the system failed them. Women who suffer ill-treatment and who, with great courage, decide to denounce cannot continue to be left without protection. Because women are encouraged to report from the media, social services, police, etc., and on many occasions, too many, find that, even if they do, they do not receive any protection. Our criminal system, as it cannot be otherwise, is a guarantor, principle in dubious pro reo, and macho violence is not always easy to prove. That difficulty is further compounded by the situation in which justice is found in our country. The judges are completely saturated, they have to hold fast trials like churros; in some courts there is no psychosocial team; there is no time or means to agree on certain evidence; and, sometimes, women back out of fear or other circumstances very typical of this form of violence. So many of those trials remain on a temporary standstill, but that doesn't mean that the woman is not in danger. I'm referring to this week's tests. That danger, unfortunately, has materialized in murder; and that, I say again, is something we have an obligation to avoid or at least improve quickly and urgently. Ladies and gentlemen, the training of judges is very necessary and will help, but in our pact there are more measures aimed at alleviating all these issues that I have mentioned. And in keeping with the report we are dealing with, I would like to say that the initial bill put forward by the Socialist Group was devoted exclusively to improving the agenda, the provision of places and the promotion of judges. From Citizens, we have tabled amendments that go further, but that also require the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. They are all included in the pact, and basically refer to the process of amending measures, to the need for violent courts to have units that prevent victims from having to cross over with their aggressor. And another that, in my opinion, is very important is that from the council's Gender Violence Observatory, with the specific data received from the courts, an evaluation with a detailed report is carried out annually. That report will, in turn, have to come to the Committee on Follow-up to the Pact set up in this House for this. It is very important to analyze, see what fails and improve it with legislation or other parliamentary initiatives. I conclude, because I do not think I have much more time left, saying that we will vote in favour of the amendment of the United Group We can make sexual violence outside the couple be judged as what it is, as macho violence. And I say to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, please stop presenting new proposals for legislation with legislative measures of the state pact, as they did here on Tuesday. All they do with this is add a new obstacle to its start-up. Present whatever you want, but as an amendment to the bill that is already in this House. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, please stop using the fight against macho violence and women for purposes that have nothing to do with it. I don't think I need to say anything else. Remember the famous amendment on the budget law they tried to put into this initiative. Let's all get back to consensus and get to work on forced marches. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. Mrs Cuello Pérez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important challenge for democratic systems in the twenty-first century is to put an end to the inequality between men and women, and in a very special way to their maximum and most painful expression, which is macho violence. In democracy, violence is unacceptable and the State's response must be commensurate with the magnitude of the problem. Therefore, offering an effective response to violence against women is a challenge that we all have to face; I repeat it every time I have the opportunity to rise to this rostrum, and every terrible murder reminds us that we have failed day by day because the numbers of murders continue to rise. On 10 October, an opinion was delivered on the submission of the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary to the Justice Commission. To that date, there were 38 women killed. Today, fifteen days later, the figure increases to 43 women killed because of male violence, 971 since 2003. The judiciary is one of the main tools we have to punish and pursue male-based violence. Gender-based training is needed to address gender-motivated crimes; sexist ideas, values and customs made violence a normal thing for society, a thing of the private sphere and of the houses in which it was not necessary to get involved. But, ladies and gentlemen, the pedagogy and daily struggle of the feminist movement of many women, such as Carmen Alborch, to whom I wish to pay tribute today, have caused our society to change and address violence against women as it is, a terrible violation of human rights that strikes us hard every day. The Administration of Justice is one of the basic pieces to combat this scourge. That is why we call for an effort from our judges to deal with, to improve and to be able to give a certain answer to this problem. Through this reform we promote the measures of the State Pact, in which we urge to improve judicial training and training in anti-discrimination law, including the gender perspective and transversality in opposition to the judiciary, the Judicial School and in the continuous training provided by the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this measure is not enough, but one more step. That is why I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and my colleague Juan Carlos, because these weeks we continue to work with all the political groups to try to speed up as much as possible the implementation of measures that need, which require, legislative changes. We need to do everything we can, everything in our hand, because, even so, eradicating violence will not be simple, it will be difficult, but you will be with me in which it cannot be impossible, especially in these times in this House. I would like to highlight the consensus that we are able to adopt all political forces for an end that is well worth our effort. Let's keep working, let's keep offering answers, let's listen to victims and feminist organizations. Eliminating sexist violence against women must be possible, because it is unacceptable to live with it. I end with part of an article published by the Association of Women Judges of Spain, which says: 'It must be... a priority for judges to form, become aware of and become aware of gender inequality, so that the feeling that the law has gender can be definitively dispensed with, and its gender is male'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuello. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Molinero Hoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodriguez, in view of your party's stand, it seems that the members of Podemos are not very interested in listening to the issue of gender-based violence, are they? Looks like we're on the same page, don't we? [[Applauds]] The commitment of the People's Party is of both men and women. That is why I am here this morning to represent the People's Parliamentary Group in one of the social scourges that we are most fighting, such as gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we discussed the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary to transfer to it the measures adopted in the fifth axis of the Pact against Gender Violence concerning the impetus in the training of agents, and in particular those of the judicial career. What was initially understood to be a simple and ordinary way forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, unfortunately, turned it into a complex and clumsy way forward by trying to introduce an amendment that was outside the scope of the initiative, such as the reform of Article 15.6 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, thereby altering the meaning, the essential content, of the legislative initiative, which was nothing other than to take measures to combat gender-based violence by strengthening the formation of the judicial career. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the impasse in irregular processing was overcome and it ended as it should have begun, with dialogue and with consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, this law respects, as it could not otherwise be, the Covenant against Gender Violence, but also takes into account the objectives of the law and the aspects that affected it, such as the judicial career and the statute, as well as the concerns and concerns that the judicial associations showed us regarding the text of the reform, which forced my parliamentary group to study and incorporate - either through amendment or through compromise - certain improvements in the text of the proposal that we are debating today in order to enrich its content. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this law is to raise the awareness of the entire judicial career on equality and gender-based violence, seeking that the judicial career strengthens training on the right to non-discrimination, which includes study and training in the principles of equality between men and women, in the principles of violence against women and its cross-cutting application in the area of jurisdictional function. The forty women killed in 2018 and the 967 women killed since 2003 deserve the training of both judges and judges and prosecutors to eliminate, as I have said, this social scourge. In order to achieve this objective, the law regulates the specialization of judges and magistrates on a preferential basis for access to places in specialized courts and in sections of provincial hearings where such specialization exists. But, in addition, other content is regulated, such as the agenda, selective evidence, continuing and specialized training, access to vacancies in courts and tribunals and the creation of new courts and sections of provincial hearings where necessary for the scope of their litigation, prior reports of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the Autonomous Communities. Of the most recent transactions approved by the Commission, we must point out that, on the one hand, a preview of the Pact against Gender Violence is incorporated, which requires the General Council of the Judiciary to study the need or lack of dependence that prevents the confrontation of the victim and the aggressor during the process and to promote its creation when it does not exist, in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice and the Autonomous Communities. On the other hand, the work being done by the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence on the evaluation of data from violence judges on women is reinforced to include them in the Council's memory. However, ladies and gentlemen, my group cannot accept the amendments tabled by Uniti Podemos, because they have already been discussed in the Commission and we are therefore not going to support them. Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups for the spirit of dialogue and consensus they have maintained until the adoption of this legislative initiative, and to thank the lawyers, Mrs Pilar García-Escudero and Mrs Isabel Revuelta, for the excellent work they have done both in the presentation and in the Commission, maintaining a high level of professionalism in the processing of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the concerns and sufferings of some women as a result of this detestable scourge of gender-based violence. That is precisely why this House must be the mirror and reflection of your concerns, your demands and your needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be alien to these circumstances, which obliges us to have a special commitment and responsibility to the judicial career and to the victims. From this commitment and from this social responsibility my parliamentary group will support the bill, in memory of these gender victims. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Molinero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u62	We turn to the following item: Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the honourable Members. No group has requested to speak and, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, shall be put to the vote, together with the other matters, at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u63	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole proposal for an organic law regulating euthanasia. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the People's Party before the law of euthanasia is well known to all of you; I myself had the opportunity to fix it in the debate of consideration and, therefore, you all know that it is a standstill. But today we couldn't and didn't want to miss the opportunity to explain it again. If the legislative procedure had allowed it, the amendment we had tabled would have been a return, but it is a proposal for a law and, as you all know, that could not have been. We have therefore decided to table an amendment with an alternative text which has no other intention than to be precisely that, the alternative that we offer to the citizens. We have not invented anything, we have preferred to present a text that we have already voted in favour of in some autonomous communities and that is in fact already being applied and is a rule that reflects the rights of citizens in the final process of life. And we have done so simply for consistency, because the People's Party votes and defends the same thing in the autonomous parliaments as here in the national Parliament; the same thing, ladies and gentlemen. Some group may be tempted to accuse us of that, that we are presenting that text, but, well, we say it in the explanatory statement itself: it is a direct heir to those rules of some autonomous communities and, moreover, we have done so without cover-up or stubbornness, first because the legislative texts have no intellectual property rights and, above all, because above all, ladies and gentlemen, there is the coherence, the coherence of the one who voted for a text before and is going to vote for it again now. I wish those who have submitted texts like this and supported them would support it again today, but I am not naive and I suspect that today they will not support it, they will not support a text that they did support in their day and that they even congratulated themselves on that support. They are not going to do it today, on the contrary, it is very likely that they will go up to this rostrum and throw at the People's Party saying that it is a text that already exists, that it is not up to us to talk about it, that we are already working on the presentation of the law of rights and guarantees in the final process of life. It's true, we've been working on that paper for months and we're also doing all the groups a great job. But I can also tell you that if that paper had ended, if we had closed that text, we might not have tabled this amendment in its entirety, because we would have already set our position and our alternative, which is precisely that law. But you have decided to move forward with the law of euthanasia before the end of that law of rights and guarantees and we have decided to present this text. His position is different. You have decided to defend two things: rights or care in the final process of life and end life, and we don't. We said this from day one, we defend the dignity of life from beginning to end, we defend good death and we defend that good death is part of that dignified life. That is why we have presented it and why we defend it. So go ahead, don't have any respite, abhor our proposal or criticize us because the truth is that we don't care. I will tell you something, ladies and gentlemen, your words will be born and die in this rostrum and in the Journal of Sessions, but my message goes to the people who are outside and are listening to us. [[Applauds]] That is why I am not going to waste another second of my time or to justify our proposal, our amendment, not even trying to convince your groups because I know they have almost the decision taken. As I tell you, my message is not for you, my message is for the people who are listening to us. Every time we talk about euthanasia, someone has the temptation to take out a survey, refer to it and say that more than 70% of the respondents say yes to euthanasia, a percentage, by the way, very similar, even lower, to that of the doctors who are telling them that no to euthanasia. I have said this several times in this rostrum, talk to the doctors, the professionals and those who have to start and apply that euthanasia that they are telling you that not in a percentage of more than 70%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u66	But I, as I was telling you, am not going to talk about a survey because we can't keep the cold and isolated data from a survey or a statistic. My message is about the people who respond to that survey and those answers because I think we need to look a little bit and see what's behind it. To those people who are really convinced and who vote yes to euthanasia because a certain moment of a disease is not worth living, our message cannot be in conformity and does not want to be in conformity, ladies and gentlemen. Do you really see it that simple? In a society like ours someone says: I don't want to live and our answer is: perfect, are we going to kill you or are we going to help you die? The People's Party does not want to give that answer to those people. We believe that what we have to say to them is: We are going to relieve your physical pain, we are going to relieve your psychological pain and let us work with you so that you can overcome your existential pain. That is our response and that is the response that we believe that a society like ours should give to citizens in that situation, try to convince them that life is worth living and that we have to look for alternatives, other possibilities and other ways of living. That is the society we want to create. I'll give you an example. Imagine that someone now climbs the roof or a corner of this Congress because he decides that he no longer wants to move on with his life and threatens to throw himself into the void. What would we do as a society? Or what would we do? What would you do? Would they look the other way and let themselves be thrown away in the exercise of their freedom or, if they were asked for help, would they give them a push? No, ladies and gentlemen, society would mobilize, the police would be called, an ambulance would come, a psychologist and a mediator would try to convince it not to do so and, if it did, it would be considered a failure. For then to a person who is laid in a bed, in a situation much weaker and much more vulnerable, do we really say only that: yes, we kill you or assist you in your suicide? Ladies and gentlemen, think about it, it's worth thinking about. And then there are the vast majority of people who answer that survey saying yes to euthanasia, but in whose answer we have to scratch a little bit and when we do what we find, ladies and gentlemen, there really is fear, fear of ignorance of the disease, fear of ignorance of the treatments, fear of not being able to say no, that enough of that treatment at a given time, fear of pain, fear of suffering and fear of loneliness. That is what we find, really afraid to face that final moment of life in which we are all going to find ourselves and a fear that cannot be fought by facilitating death or helping to die, but by caring, accompanying, letting die and letting go in peace, ladies and gentlemen, which is not the same. With the proposal that we are presenting today and with the law that we are dealing with in this House - and we will also say this at the moment - what we say to these people is that they will have the right to be informed of their diagnosis and treatment, that they will have the possibility to leave treatment when it is not effective or when they decide to leave it, that they will have the right not to suffer pain or suffering, that they will have the right to be sedated, to be accompanied and to privacy. That is the message we want to convey to society and to people, because it is really what they are demanding of us. They will surely continue to say that the law of euthanasia presented by the Socialist Party is designed for extreme cases, but that cannot give rise to socially unjust laws that face a non-existent individual right to the inescapable duty of the State to protect life. Don't see any kind of prejudice in our position. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are simply principles that our group has and that any group could have. So that you don't think it's this humble Member of the People's Parliamentary Group who says so, we're talking about doctors' statements. Says a doctor that killing those who suffer is not progressive. Ladies and gentlemen, killing those who suffer is not progressive; doctors are telling you that. Citizens, to you, who are now self-proclaiming progressives, tell them that it is not progressive to support euthanasia; it is told by the collective that will have to implement and implement that measure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u67	Wait a minute, Mrs. Cortés. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The speaker is the only one, and I ask you not to interrupt her. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we only have one life and a short life, so let's live it and help those who face it in complicated situations, but let's help them enjoy it and not end it. What we have to do, what we believe in the People's Party we have to do, is make sure that the end of life has the warmth and tenderness with which it begins. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Professor Sánchez Chamber says, if life begins in conception and ends with death, the dignity of the person begins in conception and ends with death. Ladies and gentlemen, dignity is in the human being, not in his living conditions. Therefore, there are no more or less dignified lives depending on their conditions; all are worthy. She said that killing those who suffer is not progressive. No, it's reactionary. The progressive thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to accompany them, support them and care for them. That is why perhaps the Member Adriana Lastra said in the debate on 26 June - I quote textually -: 'Our political position has always been very clear. First, regulate palliative care...'. Good, but you know that the work of the committee studying palliative care has not finished. They know that there is no national palliative care network and therefore the positive effects of that network have not been assessed. They know that there are thousands of people who do not have such care, but at the same time, they present a law of euthanasia. You say the opposite of what you do. On this debate, first of all, we believe that from your euthanasia for exceptional cases we will move to euthanasia without conditions, just as it has with abortion. When we renounce to defend life and find a reason to justify the goodness of its elimination, even if it is seen as humanity, in the end for comfort we will find no reason to defend it. Secondly, euthanasia perverts the relationship of hypocritical trust between doctors and patients. And thirdly, we do not believe that it will be an egalitarian practice at all. It will be the loneliest, least-resourced and weakest people who will eventually be eliminated. Finally, of course, we do not believe that we are going to build this way with this solution, because there are alternatives, a more supportive and fraternal society. I believe that this is a matter of those who are called conscience, so I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote conscientiously and not to set your position on the basis of your party's voting discipline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u72	Thank you. Egun on, good morning to everyone and everyone. Euskal Herria-Bildu supports the decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide and advocates the reform of the Criminal Code for this purpose. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u73	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u74	It is the only stumbling block that found, in fact, the processing of the law that we already proposed in the Basque Autonomous Community in 2014, to which some political formations clinged in order not to address in its full extent a law that guarantees the rights of people in their vital process and does so in parameters of dignity. In spite of this, finally, with the aforementioned outstanding subject, it was possible to take an important step with the adoption of a law that has as fundamental principle that the last word, the final decision, be of the people who are sick, thus being able to abandon positions of subordination to medical professionals even when their work is fundamental in this matter. People must decide on the final process of our lives, we have the right to a dignified life and also to die dignifiedly, to be able to choose the time for it, and the law must give us tools and protection so that we do not have to depend on the team of professionals who are dealing with one or other issues but only on the decision of the person who is in such a complex process. The law that we introduced and adopted in the Basque Autonomous Community was an important step, but I insist that it would be final with the reform of article 143 of the Criminal Code. Meanwhile, several texts have already been presented in this Congress proposing to regulate euthanasia, and the PP is now presenting us with an amendment to the entire text of the PSOE. But the PP does not really tell us about euthanasia, denies us the right to dispose of our lives and forgets that absolute respect for the dignity of the person who claims to defend is not possible if the person merely enjoys quality care or receives detailed information. Living with dignity is a right; it must also be a right to die with dignity. Otherwise, if we do not recognize ourselves as a right, we would be forcing people to live in an unworthy state of health that allows them to continue living with a minimum of dignity. That is why, although we have already said in your day that we are not entirely convinced of the original text, we will vote against the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u76	Thank you, President. I am going to make, Madam spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, an exercise in restraint so as not to put qualifications on your examples, because the debate we have here today is too serious and does not deserve it. Our speech will remain in this House just like yours; in fact, today I address you, but also the people who are out, of course, as we always do. I address especially those people who are going through it frankly wrong or who have a family member in this situation. I would like to tell you that our commitment is undoubtedly that you can have a palliative service if you wish. In fact, the work not only of my parliamentary group but also of the Governments that have presided over my party in Catalonia has always been in that direction, in ensuring a good palliative service if the patient so wished. But I also address them to tell them that I am convinced that if they decide to end their life in a dignified way we will be at their side. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a person does not choose to end his life as one who chooses the color of the car, the color of the dye or the color of the room. That is a decision that is made in thought, serious and, above all, from the suffering of the family members and the person who ends up with his own life, with which it is a thought, reflected and individual decision of those who suffer him. My question, when we talk about dignity, is: What is dignity? That they force you to live a life you don't want to live, suffering, or give you a chance to end it if you decide so? That is the question we must ask ourselves, and not approach a moralism about what is right or what is wrong, what is worthy or what is not worthy. I would ask you to let people decide how to end their life and do it in the best possible way. Our duty is to accompany them; not to tell them that what they do is right or wrong, but to tell them to do what they do we will be there to accompany them, because that is to give dignity to the people and not to deprive them of the right to do with their lives whatever they want, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are going to vote against your amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. With all the affection of the world, Mrs. Cortés: go cardboard; go cardboard. It seems to me a little disrespectful to everyone else that you say you're addressing those outside and that everyone else's going to stay here and it's not worth it at all, as if everyone else represented, I don't know, an entelequia and you were the only legitimate representative and defender of all those outside. [[Mrs. Cortés Bureta makes negative gestures]] I cannot allow that, because what we defend others makes sense and has the same respectable criterion as yours. In that sense, if my spokesman said yesterday that of: It is already good of coup d'état; I say the same: It is already good to talk about killing. That's it! [[Applauds]] No one makes laws to kill anyone. In any case, the topic that brings us to this legislature has been the most discussed and raised in this rostrum, and it has been because there have been many initiatives that in their different phases - it takes into account, amendment to the whole, etc. - have generated diversity of debates, debates that have enriched with the different positions and contributions as substantial and important as is the responsibility of all of us as legislators and, consequently, of the public authorities for the decisions that are taken around the different ways to attend to the end of life, the process towards death, when due to serious, special, terminal or incapacitating circumstances, adequate attention is required to this circumstance. We have talked about palliative care, we have talked about helping die and we have talked about euthanasia, we have talked about everything, but we have all kept a serious criterion, each with its approaches, although I have said once that if any subject required subcommission and presentation and appearances it was precisely this. I missed that. In any case, today it seems to me that some group has generated quite a bit of bummer and even anger in the groups for playing frivolously with something as serious as this subject, and I say why. On Tuesday, when we were dealing here with a proposal by the People's Group on measures of gender-based violence, I said that the text and the context had to be analysed. Today we are back to the same situation that occurred on Tuesday and I am going to re-analyse the text, which I disagree on some issues that I will detail - that is not the most important because it is already spoken of - and the context, which I absolutely disagree with and which seems to me to be a hindrance to the work being done in this House. The rapporteur has put on the blindfold knowing the injuries that were to come, as justifying the self-recognition of all the bumps they have made in this process. We can talk long and hard about the text, but it seems to me that you, the Members of the People's Party - and I say this frankly - cannot be presented here today with this text under your arm and not blush. I'm going to give you several reasons. This text is not an alternative text to this law, it is something else that covers other needs that, by the way, are already covered. They cannot bring an alternative text that, in addition to being a gross copy of laws that already exist - you yourself have recognized it - does not bring any newness to health legislation. They cannot bring a text that is even worse than the one we have been developing in the paper and is about to be adopted. You cannot bring a text that seeks to replace one that you yourself have said yes to. So what absurdity and what waste of time and resources is this? What would happen to the other bill being dealt with if, by chance, it were dealt with and approved? What would we do with the paper that you yourself have participated in and collaborated in? Shall we throw it away? What is the face of the Members who are participating in the Commission? And it is said by someone who did not vote in favour of taking into account the above-mentioned bill put forward by Citizens for the reasons on which you again incur, in addition to this parliamentary pirouette by which, since this time you do not have a network, it seems to me that you are going to fall from the trapeze. In addition, you have made with this text an emergency clip-copy-stick. Conscious of this, they want to conceal it in the preamble of the text itself with the 'this text is a direct heir to', a very fine way of saying: we have copied it. The context, like the bill we discussed on Tuesday on gender-based violence, will help to balance, justify or feed their internal needs, but it does not bring anything new to this. And what does the text say? Will you think that, thanks to the arrival of this text, there will be palliative care for all those who need it? Do you think that the autonomous communities, or some of them, have been waiting for you to bring a wonderful text that will solve that problem? Well, you know, they're the last of them. Where were you so far, if this was so important and so necessary - that is - for six years of government - and with four years of absolute majority - for you to present it at the time you leave the government? They have brought a text, I say again, which does not bring anything new. The only thing he says is that you have the right to palliative care, to which I have nothing to object, would be missing more, but that is already overcome, that already exists, that already develops, that is not an alternative to what the amended text said, because they are two different problems and they are two different needs. In addition, all measures call for existing legislation. Almost everything is regulated by Act No. 41/2002 on patient autonomy. You guys have a very important, epistemological mess I'd almost say. They appeal to the legal value of life on the frontispiece of their own bill and then cite the patient's free will many times and constantly contradict each other. It is an interesting debate - but we have already developed it - which is respectable and requires far more depth than this kind of boy scout that you gave us in your speech. The first right they raise is the right to information. What's new? Don't patients already have it based on the laws that already exist? On the issue of the training of professionals they raise, do you believe that you are waiting for them to train people in palliative care in the different autonomous communities and in the health systems that exist? Are you waiting for you to bring this? How do you think palliative patients are treated today in many communities? Professionals have training, because they are dedicated to it, because they believe in it and because they have been committed to them in their different parliaments and have not been waiting for you. Finally, in some articles they even say what the autonomous communities should do, it would be missing more. On the one hand, this invades the competences of the autonomous communities and, on the other hand, they are already doing what they say in this text. So, in substance but above all in form, we will not support this late, wrong and wrong amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u80	Good morning, deputies, deputies, president. From that wonderful book written by a persecutor of the Inquisition, the Quixote, I have drawn a quotation that illuminates my intervention. It says: 'Freedom, Sancho, is one of the most precious gifts given to men by the heavens; with it cannot be equaled the treasures that enclose the earth, nor the sea covers; by freedom, as well as by honor, life can and must venture.' This amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party is to the contrary. What is striking about this amendment is that the Group of the European People's Party, in a new demonstration of this political frivolity that it uses recently, compares the legalization of euthanasia with suicide - let no one fall, please - or with murder. Last week it ended with another pearl of Pablo Casado for history: The problem of euthanasia does not exist in Spain, it is an invention of Pedro Sánchez; as if each of us, whether from the PSOE, the People's Party or the Republican Left, did not have to go through the hard trance of death sooner or later. It is not that euthanasia is not a problem, as the leader of the People's Party says, it is exactly the opposite. Every human being at the end of life will find a decision to make and, as the Quixote said, freedom is the best guide to a good death. But once again we are faced with paternalism, the closure of someone who wants to impose his ideology and his pride on the rest of humanity to the point of telling others, poor mortals, how we have to manage the most tragic moment of our lives. Who are you to tell another human being if you should endure pain to unspeakable limits, if you should die sooner or later, or if you should be banned from a compassionate injection that sleeps sweetly and helps you die dignifiedly? But for the PP vintage of Casado the law on the right to a dignified death is little less than an unnecessary experiment, like any reform that Pedro Sánchez does or like what happens in Catalonia, which is unacceptable, so it requires the application of article 155 without further contemplation. There is no more to pull from the hemeroteca to check with amazement how little the Iberian right has changed in almost forty years of history. No wonder the People's Party compares Mr. Married's speech with Cánovas; they go to the 19th century to try to find solutions for the 21st century. According to the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, euthanasia refers to those actions carried out by other people at the express and repeated request of a patient who suffers from physical or psychological suffering as a result of an incurable disease and who lives as unacceptable, unworthy, as an evil, in order to cause his death quickly, effectively and painlessly. That is, we are faced with a right to choose a worthy death, to stop receiving medication or treatment when the disease is incurable and to be assisted by palliative care that relieves the pain until the very moment of death. None of this has to do with crime, with sin, with suicide, with murder, with abortion, with slavery, with organ trafficking, as the Spanish over-activated right-wing, increasingly insensitive to human suffering, always says. We are simply and simply talking about the right to die in peace. Fortunately, last June the Congress of Deputies took the first step in regulating the law of euthanasia, after a failed step, unfortunately, with which we could have advanced time and action. Only the time and evolution of consciences will decide whether my request to die was reasonable or not, said the tetraplegic Ramon Sampedro, whom unjust laws condemned to live prostrate for years in the midst of immense suffering. Neither the time nor the evolution of consciousness seem to affect the closed and squared minds of some politicians, from that right that freezes our hearts. They won't make it. The law will continue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence once again, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u82	Mrs Cortés, I am going to read a sentence from the Journal of Sessions which I am sure you will recall: What the amendment to the whole that the Confederal Group of the United States is proposing to us is to try to bring together these two propositions, both that of euthanasia and that of dignified death. I don't think it's welcome to make those mixes or that mix to carry out an initiative; it's not serious. [[Applauds]] You're yourself that day. They are his own words, because my words that day - when he tried to do this himself, but instead - called it parliamentary filibusterism, and this episode of new filibusterism has more to do with Jack Sparrow than Francis Drake. Mrs Cortés, Mrs Navarro, Mrs Cabezas, you are the rapporteurs in the law that is being dealt with in this Parliament and I can only say about you, as the classic would say: 'God, what a good vassal, if I heard good sir!' But there is no good sir, because they have made them do this piece of paper, and the gentleman, who is not here today, Mr. Married, literally said that there is no such problem. Look, gentlemen of the People's Party, I don't understand, I don't understand, and no one understands. What is the usefulness of this proposal? Do you despise your own work? Do you despise the work of your deputies in the paper, the excellent work of your deputies? Do you think it's possible to bring forward an amendment like this? What if I go ahead? If this amendment were to go forward, it would be covered by The World, but by The World Today, because it would be the first time that two equal laws, with the same content, were dealt with in this Parliament at the same time. It is not possible; and if it is not possible and convenient, gentlemen of the People's Party, why do they do so? Is it good for your cause? Is it good for the cause of the party or for the cause of those who licitly defend their opposition to euthanasia? Because you have not come here to defend that cause, you have come to defend your party. You have come here once again to be the ones who throw the bone away from the olive, and this is not a question for that. We told Mr. Pablo Iglesias when he presented his bill on euthanasia and we say it to you: neither do you have the exclusive defense of life; neither do you have that exclusive. [[Applauds]] You, in this new phase, have decided that you are the people who speak clearly... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u83	Wait a minute, Mr. Igea. One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I believe that the matter we are dealing with is of sufficient importance to keep them quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u84	You have decided that you are the party that speaks clearly, the party that has everything clear. In fact, his secretary general has said: the one who is not clear is not from the PP. They are the representation of that traditional Spain in which if you raise the flag, it is of the right; if you are in favor of divorce, it is of the left; of the white and the black, of the red and the blue; a Spain of which the Spaniards are fed up. [[Applauds]] You have no doubts, but I'm going to give you an appointment. Stefan Zweig said doubt is the mother of ideas; only the ignorant and fanatics never doubt. What are you, gentlemen of the PP? What are you guys? [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, gentlemen of the left, many things have been said here that are also false, because it is not true that the problem is solved, as has been said many times, nor is it true that in the autonomies they were already doing this. I am going to give you some data again: less than 50% of Andalusians who are asked to know that the last wishes of their relatives have been respected when they died; less than 30% died at home, but it is that 30% of the people who die in this country do not know their diagnosis and 50% of the people who are in palliatives do not even know that they are in palliatives and that they have no expectation of cure. The information is hidden, the means are not provided. This is the reality and that is why it was necessary to bring the law that we brought into this house. But sometimes statistics are not enough, I would like to read some of the cases from the report of the Andalusian Ombudsman on the application of dignified death in the community that has been with a law that has not yet worked. For a ninety-four-year-old woman with alzheimer, dyspnea, coughing, unable to swallow, her family asks the doctor for sedation, and answers: Do you want to kill your mother? Another testimony: My partner, already hospitalized, asked to be sedated when it was clear. His oncologist gave him certain warnings about the responsibility he left in his loved ones: that you can never know how long it takes or the answer in each personal case. I was forced to take the vital will document from him. Another case: In Almeria there is no palliative care on weekends, only one can die on working day. So, over and over again, episodes of relatives asking you not to put on a nasogastric tube. Like a ninety-four-year-old patient with a massive brain hemorrhage, no life expectancy, and a court secretary who says, "Oh! Are you the one who wants to kill your mother? This is the reality in this country and that is why it is necessary to put an end to our bill once and for all. [[applause]] It is intolerable for us to have a year and a half on this matter. We need a sanctioning law that allows family members and Spaniards to know that their rights will be exercised with certainty, not a law without guarantees and rights. Look at you, this country is left with ignorant politicians and fanatical politicians. The Spaniards who face death and suffering do not want or need blessed or intellectual living rooms, what they need is for people who have compassion and a capacity for comfort to accompany them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u86	Thank you very much, President. My memories for Luis Montes, who I assume Mr. Married will not know who he was. The People's Group has expressed a significant confusion of concepts by submitting a full amendment to a palliative law before an amendment to a euthanasia law. Mrs. Cortés must have asked for help from her party spokesman, former Health Minister, who... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u87	Wait a minute, Mrs. Botejara. I do not want to have to ask for silence in each of the speakers' speeches, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who has to talk about matters of urgency and of the utmost importance, please leave the Chamber. Those of us who are here will attend to the speaker, who is the only person who is speaking. I don't want to have to repeat it more often. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u88	I was commenting that in view of this confusion of such important concepts it was possible to ask for help from an ex-minister, from her spokesman, who has been one of the twenty-three ministers we carry in democracy, and probably the worst we have ever had. Secondly, it seems that this copying is of rabies, because it is not that they have copied some leaflets, it is that they have copied the entire joint, except article 21 and article 22; all shot. Well, chapter 21 and chapter 22 talked about the governance of the Madrid Community. We are talking about an important issue, and I believe that the population in Spain deserved a little more work on its part. And thirdly, we must know - as has already been said here - that we are already in the final phase; last week we held the last meeting in the presentation on the palliative care law, which Citizens call rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final project of life, which is a palliative care law, and which has also had little interest in considering the work that is already being done in the presentation and bringing this amendment here today. They have little interest in the problems of the population. Mr Casado, as has also been mentioned, says that euthanasia is not a problem; that there is no problem. Mr Casado is probably unaware of the problems facing the population in Spain. Three proposals for euthanasia laws have been submitted in this legislature. If this indicates that there is no problem, I think you have to make him look at it. The first proposal was from my political group; I am not going to repeat the data or the arguments, which have already been given on previous occasions commenting on this law, but I will say that it is evidence that the problem exists, and it is only necessary to look at the group of Citizens to see how they have always argued in their presentations against the law of euthanasia, and then clearly, surprisingly, they voted in favour. Why was this? Because surveys and public opinion were in favour of regulating euthanasia. [[Applauds]] That's evidence that the problem exists. The problem exists. Look, I've seen a lot of people die and have a bad time, a lot of people, and it's true that in our country you die a bad time. And even if we have it in the service portfolio, we need a law that will probably improve what we have; it may be. And I've also seen people - and not a few - suffer that death had it far away, they didn't have it near, but they had it far away, and those people have rights, just as other rights have been won. When I was young, people, patients were not entitled to information, they were not entitled to voluntary leave, they were not entitled to decide what tests and treatments were given. Today, fortunately, patients have the right to decide many things, and this too is going to be a right that will conquer the population; also, as bad as it is for the People's Party, do they understand? [[Applauds]] And these gentlemen will soon see that it is a right that will be achieved. And keep in mind that if I am ever in a situation of irreversible suffering you are no one to say how and when I end my life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Botejara. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u90	Good afternoon. Mr Casado is not here, but at the outset I would like to say that it is not true that the debate on euthanasia is a debate that does not exist in Spain, that it is not true that there is no social majority that supports this right, and that it is not true that the Socialist Party is inventing this matter to divide the Spanish; what is true is that the People's Party lives outside of social reality and that the People's Party is always late in gaining rights in this country. [[Applauds]] But it is also on this occasion that you do so in a crooked way, because what you bring us here is an amendment to the whole that is a fraud; you don't mind twisting the House's Rules of Procedure to avoid the amendment of the Stability Act, through a law related to it, and yet you bring us here an amendment that has nothing to do with the proposed law that you want to overthrow. Understand this, the regulation of euthanasia has nothing to do with good medical practices at the end of life, palliative care and terminal sedation, because they are different personal circumstances, are different ethical and legal foundations, and require different guarantees, both for citizens and for professionals; nothing to see. But since you are amending - other speakers have already said this - do so with some decency, because what you bring here is a complete plagiarism of a socialist bill in the Community of Madrid. How few lessons can be learned from Mr. Married's plagiarism. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u91	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u92	You have always been against expanding rights and freedoms. They submitted amendments to return to the Equal Marriages Act in 2005, submitted amendments to return to the Organic Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and to voluntary termination of pregnancy in 2009. And always with the same arguments: the PSOE divides and crisscrosses the Spaniards, there is no social majority that claims it, we invent problems. That's right, then you drag your feet and accept these laws that you've never abolished when you've had a majority to do so. [[Applauds]] You know why? Because you fear the social majority that you say it does not exist, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not represent the social majority of this country. [[Rumors]] They even opposed this rule that today bring us here from palliative care in the X Legislature twice; the Socialist Party brought in 2012 and 2015 a proposal for a law of death worthy of you to reject. A counselor of yours from the Community of Madrid declared an indecent battle in 2005 to Dr. Luis Montes accusing him of having practiced four hundred murders for having performed terminal sedation, the same practices as you here today want to regulate. At that time, the judge determined that Dr. Montes carried out his medical work with empathy and compassion, with technical quality, favoring the dignity and freedom of people until the last moment of his days. That is the level of arbitrariness, of intransigence, of radicalism to which you are accustomed in the field of rights. Because there is demand for euthanasia, a demand that is not invented, there has been for more than a century. I invite you to take a few steps and go to the library of Congress. There is a book written by a professor of legal medicine from Valladolid in 1929, and it exposes the case of an American citizen, Sarah Harwis. In 1912 he sent a letter to the President of the House of Representatives of the State of New York saying this: I am paralytic and my illness is incurable. I've been lying in a chair for four years and suffering horrible pains. My doctor has exhausted all his science, which is a lot, to alleviate my pain and suffering, but he can no longer do it. I want to die, but since I can't move, I'm not given to take my life without other people's help. I've told my doctor to get me a sweet death, but he won't, because he's afraid he'll be sent to prison. That is why I am addressing the House of Representatives to tell you that my life is a horrible suffering, an eternal supplication. Why don't you just get rid of her? That this House authorizes my doctor to help me die without making me suffer. He will do a work of charity, for only death can put an end to my supplication. 1912. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the option to euthanasia appeals to us all, as is the case with Sarah Harwis. We have all experienced the anguish of people, family, friends who do not want to continue suffering when their life has no future or remedy, and there is a social majority that does not face anyone. See if not the study published in the Spanish Journal of Sociological Research in the first quarter of this year, where you see how many Spaniards respond that they are in favor of the regulation of euthanasia without any doubt. This is the answer according to their political orientations. [[Show a chart]] 80% of those who consider themselves left-wing are in favour of this regulation and about 50% of those who claim to be right-wing or centre-right. I ask you, on what extreme of the right is the People's Party today placed to be against this regulation of euthanasia? [[Applauds]] What I am telling you here is that palliative care is not an alternative to the regulation of euthanasia. I am not telling you this, a professor of constitutional law, a member of one of the autonomous governments that you preside over, who with this study obtained the Tomás Prize and Valiente of 2007, in whose chapter of conclusions says the following: I do not think it is right to counter both euthanasia and palliative care, as if the improvement of palliative medicine alone suppressed the debate on the regulation of euthanasia. [[shows a book]] Even with the universalization of palliative care, the problem of euthanasia remains and should be addressed. Nor is it true that medical ethics prohibits euthanasia. Yes, the current code of ethics says so, but the code of ethics, like legislation, is not immutable, and medical ethics must finally open up a path to authentic humanist medicine, which recognizes that the doctor heals when he can, takes care of the patient in any case and helps him to avoid suffering when he is asked to do so. Euthanasia is an option that belongs to the person's innermost, intimate values, beliefs and circumstances, so we do wrong if we project our own choices and ideologies, whether confessional, professional or political, on that personal decision. Let us leave room for personal, free and autonomous decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I do not ask you to stop being right; I ask you to be a more congruent and less intransigent right, a more liberal and less confessional right, a more enlightened and less nightly right. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u93	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u94	I'm done. Do not sand on the wheels of the freedoms demanded by the citizens; allow Spanish society to achieve new rights, and then you will join them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. After the debate on the last item on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the vote on the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on Royal Decree-Law 13/2018 of 28 September, amending Law 16/1987 of 30 July on Land Transport Management, concerning the leasing of vehicles with drivers. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; 164; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u97	It's validated. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 184; against, 160 plus 2 telematics votes, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u98	Consequently, it is being dealt with. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u99	Let us now, ladies and gentlemen, vote on committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposition of an organic law to reform the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary on urgent measures in implementation of the State Covenant on Gender-based Violence. Firstly, we voted on the amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Amendment 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 110 against, 225 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u100	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 79 against, 255 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u101	They're rejected. Let us now, ladies and gentlemen, vote on the Commission's opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 343 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u102	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u103	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the general vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary on urgent measures to implement the State Covenant on Gender-based Violence because it is organic. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that an absolute majority is needed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 343 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u104	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to vote on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of Members' activities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 261 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u106	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u107	We move on to debates on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed Organic Law on the Regulation of Euthanasia, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; 134; 208 plus 2 telematics votes, 210; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-25-CD181025.u108	It's rejected. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
