ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's sitting, we shall keep a minute of silence for the people who have lost their lives in the terrible rain trumpet that last night fell on the Mallorcan municipality of Sant Llorenç des Cardassar. From here we will send our solidarity to their families, to those of the people who are missing and to all those affected. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u2	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. We begin with the questions to the President of the Government. First of all, a question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u3	Thank you, President. From the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group we also sympathize with all the victims of the floods, floods and emergency teams. Mr Sánchez, we ask you what else has to happen in Spain to call elections.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u5	Thank you, President. The solidarity of the Government as a whole with those affected by the floods and, of course, with the families of the victims also goes ahead. Answering your question, Mr Casado, you used the excuse of the economic crisis to make ideological cuts in the welfare state: education, health, dependency, social services, active employment policies, etc. Thus, the approach taken by this Government is to rebuild the welfare state, to widen the space for rights and freedoms that you have cut during your seven years of government. As a result, this Government still has a lot of work to do, I insist, a lot of work to be done by the end of the parliamentary term for the benefit of the social majority in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Married, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u7	Mr Sánchez, I thank you for your visit to Spain and for your dignity in coming to Congress after having discredited the Senate and for having fled for three weeks from the chaos of your Government: two resigned ministers; two hiding property, against your ban to be ceased; yesterday we saw how a minister was repudiated for lying about her involvement in a slum conspiracy, and today we know that there is another minister, the foreign minister, involved in a privileged information case. And were you the one who was handing out political decency cards? But the problem is that in Spain you are no longer in charge of the government, nor are you in charge of the government; it is Mr Torra who is in charge and who sets deadlines. We saw it on October 1, with ignominy for all the Spaniards and above with their number two saying it was a day of reflection, unity, agreement and acceptable violence. Do you share these words? Is it acceptable that the kale borroka assaults Parliament and beats cops? Is it acceptable, for example, that some energetic people say visca Terra Lliure, which is a criminal organization that committed two hundred attacks? Or is it consumable, for example, that the Lledoners prison becomes a clinic where everyone goes by because you approached the coup prisoners, said you had to release them or pardon them, and then let the public television come in and interview them? What is happening in Catalonia is already inconsumable. And I say one thing, honourable Members, yesterday the Independenceists lost their majority in Parliament, we are facing a historic opportunity and I think we cannot let it pass. Citizens, it is time to present a motion of censure to Mr Torra, you can count on the support of the People's Party and we can see, Mr Sánchez, who you are with, whether with the constitutionalists or with the coups. There are no half inks or equidistances here... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u8	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u9	... because an urgent change is needed in Catalonia. Speaking of changes, yesterday Mrs Díaz told her that Andalusians did not deserve the political instability of Spain, and she was right; what she did not say is that they do not deserve 1 billion embezzled aid that ends up in shellfish, cocaine, games and prostitutes either. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u10	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u11	And I already know that for some minister this prostitutes is a goal for the squad or it's simply a guaranteed success, but this is indecent. He can't stand Andalusia, no more unemployment figures, no more PSOE scandals, no more self-independence humiliations in Spain. Agree for once with Mrs Díaz and call for early elections now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Finally, Mr Casado, you, since being elected president of the People's Party, together with Mr Rivera - who today we are not lucky enough to be with us - have formed a sort of coalition for the chryspation. In the absence of a political project, in the absence of political proposals to excuse, for example... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u14	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u15	..., the abstention on the exhumation of the dictator, the abstention or the vote against, for example, the recovery of the universality of public health... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u16	Silence, I beg you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u17	..., or the vote against in relation to the reversal of cuts in public education, you have done what you have done has been to personally attack each and every member of this government. But I tell you one thing, Mr. Married: that is where we are not going to pass, and it is not going to make this government mess with its ad hominem attacks. And I say more to you, Mr Casado, in that coalition of the Crispation, what you have done has been to break what seems to me to be one of the most fundamental consensuss that have taken place in recent years, and it is the loyalty of the opposition with the Government in matters of state. [[Rumors]] You are not doing the same as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party did when it unequivocally supported Mariano Rajoy's government in everything that had to do with the state. [[Applauds]] But, finally, that's what happens whenever the right is in opposition. I will also tell you something else, Mr Casado, we have seen clearly what the fruits of this coalition of the Crisp are this weekend in Madrid. And something else, Mr Casado, to you and some leaders of the People's Party I have been listening to you theorizing about the need not to fragment the conservative vote, but the problem is not the fragmentation of the vote; the problem is the radicalization and abandonment of moderation by the People's Party. Therefore, Monsieur Casado, I ask only one thing: focus; focus, regain moderation and abandon... [[applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE TORTURED PACKAGE GONZALEZ HAS BEEN INVITED RECENTLY TO AN OFFICIAL ACT OF THE POLICE? [[File number 180/000767]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u18	He also asked the President of the Government. Question of the deputy Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Several Members: Uh!-Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, what does the Government think that González Pacheco, alias Billy el Niño, a torturer, has recently been invited to an official act of the National Police? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u20	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please, and respect. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Churches. Of course we express the absolute rejection of this type of invitation that never had to be produced, in the first place. Secondly, we believe that precisely what these kinds of invitations do is to offend the historical memory, the democratic memory of our country and so many men and women throughout the generations that have fought for democracy in our country. And I also believe that, in an unfortunate way, it is doing the National Police Corps a weak favor, because indeed the National Police is doing what it is doing is guaranteeing security and freedoms, ultimately democracy in our country. What the Ministry of the Interior has done since we met with the matter was to open an investigation and, of course, after completing that investigation, to open a disciplinary file to the person concerned. From there, what I can transfer to the plenary session of Congress is that what the Government has done has been to act with the utmost diligence and since the first second. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u23	Mr President, we cannot allow some to mock our democracy and to mock the dignity of the victims of the dictatorship. It is a shame for our country that a torturer was in that public act and is also humiliating the dignity of the professionals of the National Police Corps and of the security forces and bodies committed to democracy. Besides, it's a provocation because Billy the Child knows that you and I agreed to take away the decorations and the extra pension he receives. That after that agreement this evil-born dares to go to a public act of the police demonstrates the arrogance and feeling of impunity that this gentuza has. There is a direct responsibility for this invitation to take place and it is Commissioner Mariscal de Gante. The end of this disciplinary file has to be an exemplary sanction for a police commissioner who in 2018 dares to invite a torturer. The agreement that we have reached to withdraw the decorations and medals has earned from your Ministry of the Interior a legal report. I think it is necessary to speed up this work so that it does not take another month for a torturer to receive extra money that the police and civilian guards committed to democracy do not receive and that they have worked in accordance with the law. To withdraw the medal, to withdraw the decorations, to withdraw the pension is only a symbolic step; a symbolic step that has to open the door to a path of fight against impunity that we have to go through together and that could hardly be traveled with those who want to run for election with Vox. But listen to me, when they asked his government spokesman about Billy the Child he said he was a free citizen who can eventually go to where he is invited. That is the problem, that in this country there are tweeters, there are rappers and there are prosecuted puppeteers and they end up in prison while torturers can circulate freely and try to laugh at you, me and the victims in a public act of the police. Let us set an example and end impunity by recognizing the justice that the victims of the dictatorship deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u24	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Churches. I very much share your reflection and your approach in the reply. If I tell you that I can assure you that the Government as a whole is ashamed of these kinds of situations that are provoked, that we do not share them, that we reject them. That disciplinary file has been opened and since it is a position for professional competition, we will logically try to make that infringement as exemplary as possible. From there, you have also made reference to other issues that have more to do with the Law gag. You know that from the very beginning, not only on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but also of this Government, what we want is to amend the law on gags. It is now in parliamentary procedure thanks to various parliamentary groups. What I would like is for it to be speeded up, for that law to be amended, and for the more harmful aspects of it to be repealed. Returning to the case you mentioned in your question about Billy the Child, about this Commissioner, what I can assure you, Mr. Iglesias, is that the Ministry of the Interior is working intensively to be able to make those changes as quickly as possible, among other issues because I believe we have to do so with maximum legal certainty. That's where the Ministry of the Interior is, and that's where the government is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u26	Thank you very much. - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO I CANADAS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO YOU THINK DEMOCRATICLY THE CONFLICT BETWEEN CATALUONE AND THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000752]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u27	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Carles Campuzano i Canades of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u28	Thank you, Madam President. And our affection for all of Mallorca's friends and companions. Mr President, how do you intend to channel the conflict between Catalonia and the institutions of the State democratically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Campuzano, for your question. The conflict in Catalonia I believe is not so much that of independence as that of coexistence. I therefore believe that the most important thing is that we are all aware that we have to open a process of dialogue within the law first between Catalans, between those who are nationalists and those who are not, and secondly between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain. Democracy is, of course, dialogue but democracy is also respect for the rules of the game that we have given ourselves among all, in particular in this House. Therefore, within the legality and, of course, with the power of dialogue we are willing to talk to the Government, but also the Government has to make that reflection, Mr Campuzano, it has to make the reflection of opening a process of dialogue with the other party that has not been heard and to which the Government of Catalonia is not currently addressing, especially when we are talking about the crisis that is being experienced in Catalonia, which, I insist, is of coexistence, is not of independence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Campuzano, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I do not agree that the problem is one of coexistence. The problem is democratic, it goes on how to channel the fundamental question posed to it by Catalan society, which is nothing other than the Catalans being able to decide democratically and freely their political future. That is the main consensus in Catalonia. Addressing this requires political courage, a democratic sense and respect for Catalan society. Mr President of the Government, there are ministers of your Government who are not respecting Catalan society. Catalan society is not respected when the political leader appointed by Mr Rajoy in Catalonia, Mr Millo, is honoured; Catalan society is not respected when Minister Borrell vetoes the presence of President Torra at an event of the Euro-Mediterranean Summit; Catalan society, Mr President, is not respected when a minister of his Government repeats Minister Dastis's doctrine on the fake news of 1 October. Catalan society demands respect and some of its ministers do not work precisely for this dialogue. Mr President, a year ago we celebrated October 1, 2 million Catalans went to vote, hundreds of Catalans protected us with their bodies from brutal, disproportionate police charges. No one has assumed any responsibility for these police burdens, no one has assumed responsibility for excessive police and civilian guard protocols, which breached the judge's own order claiming that such police actions do not affect citizen coexistence. Mr President of the Government, someone must take responsibility and repair the damage done on that day of 1 October. We have now seen, through the media, unacceptable pressures from the political powers to the Catalan economic world, and that also demands responsibilities, transparency and accountability, and requires this Government to also explain to Catalan society so that it can regain respect and dignity. We demand transparency, we demand responsibilities. Today this depends... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u34	Mr Campuzano, I think the government has been transparent, it has been clear since the first minute. We have said this repeatedly in the appearances that I have held in this Congress and also in parliamentary questions from your group and others. The government wants to be aware, first of all, that this is not a problem that we are going to solve in a month or two or three, not even in a year or two; we are talking about a crisis that has been going on for more than a decade and therefore will need calm, determination, great generosity and a sense of state which, by the way, we do not see in those who demanded that sense of state precisely to the Socialist Parliamentary Group when they were in government. In any case, we do ask you and what we want is, first of all, to normalise institutional relations, Mr Campuzano. Having achieved the agreements that we have achieved, activating the bilateral commissions to talk about the daily problems of Catalans seems to me to be the best way to start spreading the situation, to normalize institutional relations, above all, for something very important, such as rebuilding trust and loyalty between the parties. Right now you are suspicious and we are suspicious; it is clear that there is a gap that we do not have to undermine, in which we do not have to deepen, but we have to narrow as the months go by and especially as we speed up those bilateral commissions and those dialogue processes. That's what the government is about, Mr. Campuzano. You refer to 1 October a year ago, but I refer to 21 December, when almost 80% of Catalan society participated and 80% of that Catalan society, Mr Campuzano, did not speak of independence, spoke of coexistence. Probably, the solution - and that has to be led by the Government of Catalonia - is to put an end to the dynamics of blocs, start building bridges with... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DOLORS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DO THE GOVERNMENT PROBLEMS OF THE SPAIN'S REAL PROBLEMS AFFECTS? [[File number 180/000754]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u36	Question is now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mrs Dolors Montserrat from the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u37	Thank you, President. First of all, all our love for the Mallorcan people. Vice-President, is the government concerned about the real problems of the Spaniards? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u38	Thank you very much. Quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence! Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Everyone. It's our obligation, as was yours. [[A lady Member: Take it!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u40	Mrs. Montserrat, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u41	Thank you. Vice-President, believe me that the Spaniards are amazed at the spectacle of their government and believe me that calling it government is to force as much as possible the meaning of words. You have been in government for four months, and every day you get over it; the last month has just been a drag. You leave us to rectification per day, to scandal per week - this week Mr Borrell - and to resignation per month. Everyone recognizes the economic slowdown and you talk about green outbreaks. The Spaniards trembled to see Mr Zapatero in the Ministry of Economy and Mr Pablo Iglesias in Finance. And from Catalonia, what do you want me to say? Shame, shame, indignation, and you, above all, want to turn Spanish Television into another TV3, while the Spaniards and Catalans suffer the attacks of Torra and the abandonment of Pedro Sánchez, an abandonment that turns us into shipwrecks in our own land. His Government was in full decomposition. Let me update you on the data: you are already going through four resignations, two dispatches, one jam in the sewers and one in orbit, Madam Vice-President. Tell me, really, who cast ministers for you? Who chose Mrs. Delgado, that tireless fighter against machismo, against homophobia, against human trafficking and child corruption? Pride of your Government, the most progressive and the most feminist, isn't it, Minister of Equality? Success guaranteed. Meanwhile, you're playing with the tricorns as if you were in Ascot's races. On the same day, the civilian guards were attacked in Barcelona. Look, you can't talk about worrying about the real problems of the Spaniards. You will agree with me that you are a government that lives on another planet and that is why I congratulate you, for having appointed an astronaut member of the Council of Ministers, an astronaut named Peter and named Sanchez, an astronaut who flees from Congress, the Senate and the press. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u42	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u43	Mrs Montserrat, it has become clear to anyone who has listened to you how little you care about the real problems of this country. [[Several ladies and gentlemen; very well!-Applause]] But, look, when you ask yourself a question about the tenor of which you have done two things are done, disregard the answers that we must give in this House and also place you in a place where you go directly to irrelevantness, to irrelevantness in the far right. Because I am going to tell you about the real problems. Listen: you were part of a government that left 400,000 people out of the protection of the unit; you were part of a government that unilaterally broke the Toledo Pact putting the stability of our pension system at risk; you were part of a government that cut back on education and expanded the student/teacher-teacher ratio in the classroom. [[applause]] You were part of that government; of a government that boasted of transparency but that until it arrived it did not publish the assets of the public offices of this country for the Spanish to know them. [[Applauds]] You asked me about the real problems. And do you know why you ask this question for two and a half minutes to answer it? Apart from why you don't care, because you want to turn politics into a camp battle. Because you have not just understood that representative democracy is the absolute majority of this House that you have gagged using other organs of this House. Unlock this, respect the legitimate government of this country because this is not for Spain; but, more importantly, it is not for you. Do you know where they're going? To the irrelevance, but to the irrelevance of the far right of this country. They occupy the place they occupied, which is theirs, in loyalty to their country, which is also loyalty to this Government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED PENDAR AGUID, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO AVOID MOST ASSIGNMENTS OF ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSEORS AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN LATIN AMERICA, AS AND HOW IT HAPPENED WITH BERT CANCERS IN 2016, WHICH JUDGMENT IS CELEBRAND NOW? [[File number 180/00750]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u44	Questions now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. He asks first of all of the deputy Don Pedro Arrojo Agudo, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Mr. Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u45	Minister, the trial for a murder that shocked Latin America, Berta Cáceres, is about to take place in Honduras. What does your ministry think about this?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u47	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would like to take this opportunity once again to express my condemnation of the murder to which you refer, that of Mrs Berta Cáceres, and to say that from the moment the events took place the Government has done everything possible to support the family and to follow the judicial process under way. These kinds of events are terrible. It is clear that Spain cannot protect the lives of all citizens outside its borders. But we have a programme to welcome and defend human rights defenders, more than 300 of them have benefited from this action since 1995. We can do more, without any doubt, we will try to do so and be sure that our diplomatic representation will, as it is doing, closely follow the development of that judicial process. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Rojo, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u49	Minister, Berta Cáceres was a good friend of mine, with whom I shared the honor of having both received the Goldman Environmental Award in the United States. I often think that if I were Honduran, I would probably have been killed like her by now. But, look, that's the least; the serious thing is that Berta is just one of the 130 women human rights and environmental defenders who have been murdered with impunity since the 2009 military coup in Honduras, a country with a population similar to Catalonia. What is serious is the criminalization of social movements such as the Copinh, which suffer daily harassment, threats, assaults and arrests. Fortunately, Berta's murder has turned into an international scandal that marks a turning point in this criminal barbarism where everything goes to make a new hydroelectric dam, destroy a river or destroy entire territories with open-air mining to take out 1 gram of gold per ton of dynamite territory. Therefore, Minister, we would like to ask you for a strict and demanding follow-up to this trial which, by the way, circumvents the prosecution of the intellectual authors who designed and ordered the crime. Spain provides funds and, through delegated cooperation from the European Union, contributes well to the Eurojust programme, with EUR 30 million which, on the paper, aims to end impunity and ensure transparency and care for victims. Well, none of these objectives seem to materialize in the ongoing judicial proceedings. On the other hand, we would like to ask you to support the binding human rights instrument for multinational companies in Geneva, changing the position of the former People's Party Government. Spain has a remarkable influence on governments such as Honduras - you know it better than I - for our cooperation policy with programmes such as Eurojust, among many others, but very particularly for our role as bridge with the European Union. Therefore, Minister, I would like to urge you to take the follow-up to this trial as a landmark trial that marks firm political commitments by Spain and the European Union in the effective protection of human rights defenders... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u50	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u51	Your Honor, I know your personal relationship with Mrs Berta Cáceres and that adds emotion to the question you put and to the reasoning you put. I can only tell you that, without knowing her, simply knowing her story and the reasons for her death, I can share with you her emotion and feelings. All I can do - but it is very much and I hope that we will be able to bring it to the end - is to mobilize all our political and economic resources to help your emotions become acts in defense of people like Mrs Cáceres. There are eight accused persons, one of whom is an intellectual perpetrator of the crime. You know that a Spanish citizen, Don Luis Díaz de Terán, has been summoned as a protected witness at the hearing. I want to assure you that our ambassador in Tegucigalpa is in direct and personal contact with Don Luis Díaz de Terán, who we have addressed to the Honduran authorities, that the embassy in Tegucigalpa will provide consular support and protection to Mr Díaz de Terán and also to you, Mr Arrojo, when you move soon as an observer to Honduras. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SORAYA RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE MINISTER OF THE THIRD REGIONAL FORUM OF THE UNION BY THE MEDITERRANEAN? [[File number 180/000763]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u52	Question also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mrs María Soraya Rodríguez Ramos of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u53	Thank you, President. Minister, I ask you for your assessment of the Third Regional Forum of the Union for the Mediterranean, held this week in Barcelona. As you know, the Socialists consider the Union for the Mediterranean Forum to be a privileged political forum for the forty-three countries of the southern and northern Mediterranean basin, and today more than ever this political dialogue is necessary because, unfortunately, things are not better but much worse. The inability of the European Union to host refugees, the inability to agree on a common asylum policy, the outsourcing of our borders with unsafe countries such as Libya has made the Mediterranean the deadliest pit in the world. Thinking about the numbers of the drowned and disappeared is terrible, but thinking about their lives, their parents, their children, their projects is really terrifying. With them, Minister, you also succumb to the European project. The Jordanian minister said at this summit that the cost of saving a refugee is much lower than not; of course, but the political cost is infinite. Let us remember: Italy, Operation Mare Nostrum, a socialist government, alone, saving lives, asking for help from the European Union and looking elsewhere; then came Operation Triton, only saving borders, not people; and then you know what has come, Salvini, closing ports, persecution of the NGOs that save lives. The democrats' mistakes, the wrong decisions, are the best breeding ground for totalitarianism and xenophobia. The Middle East process is not better, just the peace process survives in the papers. Trump's unilateral decisions have pushed this peace process away and today threatens the Palestinians to accept a peace process without Jerusalem, without returning refugees, without borders of 67, or closes the financing of the United Nations, which is the one serving hospitals and schools in Palestine, an unbearable suffering for the Palestinian population, which suffers too much from the occupation. That is why it is very interesting for us today, Minister, to know what has been done, how we have progressed and how are the ongoing cooperation projects between the two shores of the north and the south of the Mediterranean. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u55	Thank you very much, honourable Member. In fact, the meeting in Barcelona marks the ten years of the Union for the Mediterranean, a union that raised many hopes when it began to walk and which then went through a few years of stagnation as a result of the conflicts in the Middle East, which made it impossible even to sit down and talk to the parties facing the conflict. But with this we have already held three regional meetings, and at least we have managed to get forty-three ministers from all over the basin in the broad sense to meet in Barcelona and start talking about concrete things: the Gaza depurator, which is going to give 55 million cubic meters of drinking water to a population that does not have it, more than fifty cooperation projects for more than EUR 5 billion and, above all, the possibility that Palestinians and Israelis, all around this great natural border, which is the Mediterranean, can speak, can discuss, can express their discrepancies. I am not entirely satisfied, Madam Member, because we have not yet managed to get all the countries to the right level of representation, bringing together forty-three ministers is a complicated matter, but I myself have had the opportunity, for example, to speak with the representative of Israel and to ask him not to overthrow a Bedouin village that would question the continuity of Palestinian territory. We have also talked about the situation in Libya or what you mentioned as one of the most serious problems we have in the Mediterranean, which is that of emigration. There is no border in the world, Madam Member, more unequal than that of the Mediterranean, there is no sea, no river, no mountain range that separates two such different worlds, with such different per capita incomes, with such different demographic dynamics. Here we play the future Europeans and in particular us Spaniards, and in Barcelona at least it was clear the need to see us, to talk, to dialogue, to find agreements and to cooperate to make that sea that divides us end up joining us.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u56	Thank you very much. - OF JAVIER MAROTO ARANZÁBAL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHY IS THE MINISTER IN POSITION OF BEING SPANISHED? [[File number 180/000755]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u57	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. First of all, he asked Mr Javier Maroto Aranzábal of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, why do you feel blackmailed by Villarejo?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Maroto, I don't feel blackmailed by anyone. I might feel blackmailed exactly like you or any of you. [[Greetings.-Rumores.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u61	Silence! Silence! Mr. Hernando. Go ahead, Mr. Maroto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u62	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Minister, today you expected a question from those to be thrown around your neck, but I will tell you - and I do so wholeheartedly - that many Members here sympathize with your situation. I say it because it's not easy or, otherwise said, it's very hard what you're going through personally and professionally. It is very hard for you, who had a career, to have been repudiated by a plenary yesterday. I take care of how hard that can be for you, and believe me, I'm personally sorry. A reprobation, a vote like yesterday - although you were not, happened - is a bit harsh. It is also hard, no doubt, to go out on the street and feel that people look at her strange, that they look at her badly, that they look at her in question, as surely happens to her.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u64	... and it's that, normally, people don't like to be lied to, it's the worst attribute of politics, and that of going out one day saying that you don't know anyone at all and, at half an hour, having to admit that you know him, and quite, it's the closest thing to saying lies, minister. When you like to lie, people look at you badly, and that's hard too, and I know what's wrong with you. I know that there are many days when he will rise in the morning, he will look into the mirror and ask himself, "What do I do?" Do I do like Maxim and Carmen.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u66	...or do I do like Josep, like Isabel or like Pedro and I still grab a little more to the chair? What do I do? Asking yourself that every day is hard. I put myself in your position and, again, I sympathize with you. It has to be hard to hear reproaches or interventions like mine, which I suppose will affect you very little, or that of other groups. [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] But when it's your partner, we can, the one who put you there, the one who asks for your head also has to be tough, minister, and I also put myself in your place and feel the grief that you feel. But the hardest thing, I'm sure, is to get in here and see that your people are questioning her, too. The Spaniards don't deserve a minister like you. If you have dignity, resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Maroto, this is not the comedy club, here we are doing politics and, in this case, controlling the government and the management of the government. This government does what it does is work, and work for Spain. The socialist government works for the people out there. This theater is no good for people outside. Okay? What is not possible is the use of political blackmail to the State. We are living a blackmail to the state, of which in this case I, as could be any other, is a victim. Okay? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u69	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u70	In this sense, what should not be done, under any concept, is to admit that blackmail to the State, or anything else, to revictimize the victim of blackmail, because I am the victim of that blackmail. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u72	Mr. Maroto, I'm going to tell you one thing: to blackmail is to slander; to blackmail is to pour lies, it's to expand illegal recordings, it's to expand manipulated conversations, it's to make the coherence and principles of a certain person get muddled. That's blackmailing. But you know what blackmail is, too? Make and follow the political logic that the blackmailer wants and enter a political laudal that leads nowhere. And you know why they have to get into that political laudation? Because they have no opposition, because they did not make government at the time, because they did not work for Spain, because they were concerned about systemic corruption, because they were in decay. [[rumors]] Now, you are facing a socialist government that is giving answers, in only four months of government, to the Spaniards and in all areas of this government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Therefore, Mr Maroto, lessons of principles, values and coherence, the just. This government is a government... [[Rumors.-Applause.-A Member of Parliament: How strong!-A Member of the European Parliament: Five years]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u73	Quiet. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE CONSIDER THAT EVERY CITIZEN HAS THE OBLIGATION TO COMPLAINT A CRIME OF WHICH HE KNOWS? [[File number 180/000756]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u74	Question also addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u75	Minister, do you consider that every citizen has an obligation to report an offence of which he or she is aware? [[Rumors.-A lady MP: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u76	Silence! Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, I could teach you a lesson in criminal or procedural law, but I'm not going to. [[Several Members: No, no, no!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u78	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u79	Anyone present with an offence must report it; if committed, he must prevent it, must not cover it up; and of course there is an obligation under the Criminal Prosecution Act to report it. [[Applausos.-The Minister of Justice, Delgado García, wink at an eye.-Various Members of Parliament: you wink at us! He's winking at us!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u81	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u82	Mr Bermudez de Castro, I have not given you the floor yet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Mr. Bermuda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u83	Of course I do, Minister, but it is also that you, as a prosecutor, would have a duty to prosecute him, because if you did not do so, you would incur a crime yourself. Look, I'm sorry, but we've all heard that the voice of those recordings is yours, in which you participated in that meal. And I am not going to reproduce some of your expressions out of respect for this House and some of your fellow benches, but we have all been able to hear that you said there that you had direct knowledge of very serious facts affecting your fellow members of the fiscal and judicial career, and you did nothing; you did not even bring those facts to the attention of the Supreme Court, as it would have been your duty. Then we've read from those comrades who accuse you of lying. You see that little sambenite lying isn't just from the People's Party. But it is that, in addition, at that meal, where you shared table and table with a prevaricating judge and a police officer in pre-trial detention for corruption crimes, we have heard that the latter confessed that he had set up a prostitution network to obtain information and then extort politicians and entrepreneurs. And you, at that time, did not rise from the table immediately as any Member of this House would have done. Not only did he not report it, but he claimed that this business would be a success assured. That's what you said about that illegal, immoral and indecent business; assured success, are your words, Mrs. Delgado, not ours. [[Several Members: Very well!]] And look, I don't know what your fellow bankers will think of that, I imagine even though they won't tell you, but whatever happens from the judicial point of view with those tavern talks, which you can't come here, because it doesn't hold up, that is, as you said, that you are a victim of a persecution or a media conspiracy. And what we also know is that here you can no longer give lessons or examples of anything because you have lied to this House several times, so you should not go on for a minute as part of a government that defines itself as feminist and egalitarian. And, after being repudiated by the General Courts, you should resign for personal dignity and for the tremendous damage you are doing to Spanish justice; and the sooner you do it and the sooner you recognize it, the better it will be for everyone. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u84	Madam minister, in front.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, I was asking, because I don't know, what exactly is your profession apart from politician, but it's the same, I'm going to tell you something that comes to this. I have not witnessed the commission of any crime; I have not been present before any fact that would have compelled me to report because, apart from being a prosecutor, I have been dedicated to the prosecution of crimes for decades, I have been conducting oral trials for decades and I have been putting guilty persons in prison for decades - if I may say so - for decades. Therefore, I know perfectly well what is a crime from what is not. We're gonna put that aside. Another thing I'm going to tell you is this, and it's already been said in a court decision. There's an open court procedure about a recording and an illegal and illegal dissemination, manipulated, okay?, and you're giving value to something when you can't do it, and you know it perfectly. Anyway, look what I'm going to tell you, I don't remember any of you denouncing Mr. Bárcenas while I was handing over some envelopes with money inside. [[Protests.-Applause.]] I don't remember you going out to denounce the pressure that the mayor of Boadilla told you to engage with certain companies that were helping the People's Party. I don't remember any of you going out to denounce the provenance of the gifts of the popular people in Valencia. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u86	Silence! Silence everyone!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u87	I don't remember any of you being surprised by the cash that was circulating in certain party acts. [[Applauds]] They even lost envelopes with large amounts of money. I don't remember...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u88	His time's running out. [[Many ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Resignation, resignation.- Mrs Vázquez Blanco: Let him withdraw, let him withdraw.-Applause]] Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. Mrs. Cantera, you too. I beg you all to remain silent. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. Eva GARCIA SEMPERE, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DO YOU THINK TO REQUEST THE GOVERNMENT TO THE GENERAL TAXALIA OF THE STATE THAT PROMOTED THE COLLABORATION OF OUR JUDGES AND JUDGES WITH THE NAME OF ARGENTINA, INSTENDING THAT THE CIRCULAR OF 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 IS NOT EFFECTIVE, AND THAT THE FOREIGN GOVERNMENT WAS ENDED? [[File number 180/000748]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u89	Question now by Mrs Eva García Sempere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Delgado, do you intend to request the Government to the Office of the Attorney General of the State to promote the cooperation of our judges with the so-called Argentine lawsuit, urging that the circular of 30 September 2016, still in force, be rendered ineffective and that it was issued under the previous Government? Let us remember that this is the second time that Judge Servini will attempt to take a statement to Martin Villa, accused of crimes of murder in the context of crimes against humanity and after she refuses extradition and the first rogatory commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs García, this government, I repeat, respects the judicial independence and autonomy of the prosecutor's office. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u93	Mrs. García Sempere.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Delgado, the Government can and should be interested in the State Attorney General's Office itself, and this is expressly reflected in article 8 of the Statute of the Prosecutor's Office. I quote textually, not entirely, but yes the first paragraph: The Government may interest the Attorney General of the State who promotes the relevant proceedings before the courts in order to defend the public interest. We think this is it. If not, you will be complicit in an infamous circular that the previous Government did that we could summarize in: it is my impunity and I do with it what I want. And they will also be accomplices of another barbarity that the previous Government sent to the United Nations rapporteur and which we sum up in which I forget, amnesia and forgiveness is the way to reconciliation. I don't know if you'll be in the same. Mrs Delgado, you said in July of this year in the Committee on Justice that you want to recover universal justice so that the Spanish judges - I quote textually - can judge events in other countries, to recover the legislation that allowed Spain at a certain time to investigate the repression of Pinochet or the tortures of Guantánamo. Don't you think that the same approach should not only allow us to encourage and facilitate the investigation and prosecution of Martin Villa for crimes against humanity - let us remember - which is why he is accused? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mrs Delgado specifically... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u95	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u96	... spook because as long as you think about it, you give blind sticks and go from occurrence to occurrence, you are picked torturers at the police station parties. By improvised decisions you will end up having dictators in the center of Madrid. The 1 like Martín Villa can continue to walk and wear the medals given to them by Congress and prescribe the crimes as serious as the theft of babies. [[Killers]] In short, either it is with democracy or it is with the impunity of Francoism and then we will regret it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs García, I am completely in line with you and the approaches you are making. I started the reply in this way because on September 30, 2016, not a circular was sent but a letter without any allegation to any article of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. It was a letter-recommendation that the then Attorney General of the State, appointed by the People's Party and in line with it in the complete oblivion of the victims of Francoism, freed the prosecutors heads of provincial hearings. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u99	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u100	In this regard, nothing can be done by the Ministry of Justice because it has no binding effect or value. The letter requested not to respond to requests for assistance, collaboration and international cooperation with the National Criminal and Correctional Court No. 1 of Buenos Aires, which was carrying out the causes of Francoism. What I can tell you is that in Spain we contribute to universal justice through the trial against Scilingo, which was universal, back and forth, to satisfy the victims of dictatorships, which some parties in this House do not want. The Ministry of Justice will deal, because that is its role, with all requests for international assistance that are in conformity with international law. This is because with Argentina we have a legal cooperation agreement in criminal matters of 1987. We have to do this for an international commitment, but we also have to do this for a commitment to the victims, for a commitment to universal justice and for not repeating facts like these again. That is what we are doing in Spain from our General Directorate for Historical Memory: repairing the victims at once. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u101	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: HOW MANY PERSONS NAMED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LORD SÁNCHEZ HAVE INSTRUMENTAL SOCIEties TO PAY LESS TAXES? [[File number 180/000757]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u102	Questions now addressed to the Minister of Finance. First of all, question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance, could you inform this House about how many members appointed by the government have instrumental corporations to pay less taxes? Thank you very much, Madam President. 1 Word withdrawn. See page 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u104	Thank you very much. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank Mr Echaniz for the tone of his question. We are aware of other roles and responsibilities for which we have had the opportunity to share projects with regard to health, and I therefore thank him for that tone. Mr Echaniz, you know perfectly well that tax information is confidential and therefore no data on any taxpayer can be commented on. For the information that I have, which is the published information, there is no member of this Government who has used a company to incorporate income from work and, therefore, to evade the payment of taxes or to correspond with the tax to a lesser extent than it should. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Echaniz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Not long ago, before that, of the motion of censure, Mr Sánchez, who wanted to regenerate the policy of this country, solemnly pledged that if anyone in his environment had a society interposed to pay less taxes he would be gone the next day. In fact, what happened the next day was that he cast for the government by selecting the best tax engineers experts in interposed societies, in screen societies and in heritage societies. That is why the Minister of Culture had to resign within a few days of his responsibility; that is why the Minister of Science, who is not here today, should have done so by now; that is why the President of the Spanish Broadcasting Agency should have done so too; that is why the Minister of Culture, who is not present today, has ceased to declare very important assets in her duties as a Government, and that is why the Minister of Health had to resign for lying, or the Minister of Culture, who is not present today, remains imputed in the courts. Mr Sánchez has had to radically lower the bar of his ethics and, of course, I do not know if it was the most decent: instrumental societies, not to appear before the media, to pursue the media or the amiguism and plug-in that his corollary has had today in the post office. A whole regenerating programme that has assumed that anti-Spanish people today are partners of the Government, that bombs today are humanitarian and that, of course, the evaders are ministers. Madam Minister of Finance, you and Podemos have negotiated an increase in almost all the tax figures in our country that will greatly harm our country and especially our economy, our employment, our competitiveness and our future, and with the other hand you have allowed instrumental societies of your ministers to pay less taxes. Where is, Your Honor, ethics? Where is the exemplary? Where is the dignity and principles of the Socialist Party? What legitimacy do you have to ask the Spanish for a tax effort now? What legitimacy to call for the prosecution of tax fraud or for tax inspectors to work in our country? Do you share the practices of the rest of your government's colleagues? Your Honor, you can go too far with the lie, but you can't go back. As a representative of this parliamentary group, which is the largest in this House, I demand that you stop punishing the citizens and stop fooling the Spanish. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u108	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, this Government is an exemplary Government, which has shown it throughout this period and, therefore, the ethical list holds it high, as high as members of this Government, despite being legal situations, came out of this Government to exemplify political life and, therefore, to remove it from that laudation in which you have converted it, where permanently to what you appeal is to the chrispation, to distrust and to the delegitimization of the institutions. Your Honor, when you make those statements from members of this government, I wonder what you would think of Mr. José María Aznar, former president of the government, who was sanctioned in 2016 by the Tax Agency for using an instrumental society that he had with his wife to pay less taxes. Mr Aznar did not file an administrative appeal, signed the record in accordance with the sanction and the supplementary settlement; and I assume that Mr Aznar knew perfectly well what he was doing because he was a State Finance Inspector and began working in the Ministry of Finance before engaging in politics. But look, when they transcended the data, Mr Aznar instead of feeling ashamed, what he did was announce the filing of a complaint for disclosure of tax data, which I do not know the end he had. Do you know the difference, Mr. Echaniz? That when in this political formation there is some irregularity or suspicion that may stain political life, we take on and assume responsibilities. [[Rumors]] When the President of the Government himself, Mr Aznar, does not do so, what you do is defend him... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u110	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FELIPUS JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT OBJECTIVES IS THE GOVERNMENT PURSUANT TO THE NEW BUDGETARY STABILITY SEND? [[File number 180/000762]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u111	Question also addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alferez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, almost a month ago the absolute majority of this House, 181 Members - compared to 164 - decided to amend the Budget Stability Act to return it to what it was like at the beginning, to return the last word in the legislative process to this House. And what has happened in this time, Minister? That PP and Citizens - who are in a minority in this House - are using their institutional position in the Bureau to prevent compliance with what this House has decided - the majority - with the vote of 181 Members. A deliberate blockade with a clear objective: to obstruct the work of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez and to avoid by any means that we could have a budget and that, if there were, that budget could not have more than EUR 6 billion; in short, to hinder the work of the Socialist Government even if that would damage the lives of thousands of citizens of our country. The right will have to explain to the citizens of our country how after cutting off scholarships, after filling the classrooms of students increasing ratios, after throwing out teachers, now refuses to have another €6 billion to improve education. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u113	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u114	They will have to explain to the dependents who are waiting for their benefit, to the sick who remain on the waiting list, why they do not want 6 billion euros more to improve the system of dependence or our health. They will have to explain to those pensioners - who are still on the street because they are still ashamed of the raquitica pension increase that the PP approved for them - why they do not want 6 billion more to guarantee our country's pension system. In short, what happens to this right, the orange and the blue, is that it does not bear that there is a socialist government, that there is a government that can apply a progressive budget, a fair budget, a social budget that shows that one can govern by thinking of most people and not just a few, by thinking of a minority. In short, it cannot stand the right orange and the right blue that there is a government that, instead of approving fiscal amnesty, wants to approve a new path of stability that gives our citizens more opportunities for spending and profit. Minister, explain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Sicilia, I think you have explained it perfectly. [[Laughs.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u118	The institutional position of the People's Party and Citizens' Party in this House is preventing it from reaching citizens 6 billion euros in terms of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u119	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u120	Yeah, I know you guys don't care. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u121	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u122	I know that you do not care, ladies and gentlemen, but probably the people we are in politics to try to serve the general interest, to try to improve the quality of life of people we do care and much that there are 6 billion people who cannot be employed in social policies, because the citizens - mainly the working middle class - who have made the most important effort in this country during the crisis deserve, and it is social justice that they can be reversed some of those cuts that have been raised in the form of better public services and better employment opportunities. [[applause]] I believe, Mr Sicilia, that we are going to continue to bring this initiative over and over again to try to avoid this institutional blockade that is being exercised by the political forces of the right, because basically what you are showing is not that it served the excuse that Brussels put complicated duties on Spain, that there were tasks to be performed in the area of fiscal consolidation, what is being demonstrated by the attitudes of the right is that, in fact, the political parties had taken advantage of and wanted to take advantage of the alibi of the crisis to dismantle the welfare state in order to give way to the private initiative. In short, to steal that security mattress that allows us all citizens, at least for those of us who have agreed on people's basic rights, we can be equal. Therefore, Mr Sicilia, from our political group and above all from the government, we will continue to drive all the political initiatives within our reach so that the people of the street can actually enjoy what Brussels has given us. The People's Party made a budget that was unreal, made a budget that did not match the objectives that had to be met and, therefore, the European authorities recognizing that they are allowing Spain to manage a greater margin and therefore be able to use in public policies, in service policies 25 billion for health and education, 25 billion to revalue pensions and 1 billion for general budgets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u123	Thank you very much. - MARIA DA MARCO BLANCO GARRIDO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHY DOES THE SALARY EQUIPMENT OF THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE KEEP FROZEN? [[File number 180/000758]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u124	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Firstly, a question from Mrs Maria del Mar Blanco Garrido, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why have you delayed the salary matching of the State Security Forces and Corpses?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u126	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Blanco, I don't know what you mean when you say why we have delayed the salary matching, what we have given is contained in time - and in record time - to something that you had left in pins. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u128	Mrs. White, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u129	Minister, the reality is that there has been no argument to justify the delay in paying the 2018 annuality. You know, like me, that the economic improvement should have been reflected in the payroll of the police and civilian guards in July and not in the payroll of October or November. They are no excuses, stop lying to our police and civilian guards, because the government of Pedro Sánchez had since July had all the means and resources to implement the commitment made by the previous government of the People's Party to the police unions and the associations of the Civil Guard; a commitment endorsed with the approval of the General Budgets of the State that, by the way, you voted against; yes, you voted against making real and effective wage equalization. Therefore, less medals, Minister. [[Applauds]] Look, three months late not because of the lack of rigour and seriousness of the work done by the previous government, but because this socialist non-transparency government has at this time preferred to pay bills to its government partners, such as the 700 million you have allocated to the Mossos d'Esquadra. The People's Party Government has not left them bills as its government partners, it has left them with budgets that have an obligation to comply. And we have already announced that we will not accept delays in the second payment of the second annuality for 2019. If you are not able, like the People's Party, to approve budgets, do so through the decree, in which you are great experts. We have left them the work done in keeping with the commitment made with the State Security Forces and Corpses to resolve a just claim almost thirty years ago, so they comply and do not lie and stop pointing out the so many of the previous Government. The reality is that equality today is possible thanks to the People's Party because you, the Socialist Party, have never sat rigorously and seriously to solve the problem, you have never done anything to achieve it. Comply with our State Security Forces and Bodies, stop lying and support their claims as they deserve. And if you are not able, call elections, for the good of Spain and for the good of the Spaniards, and let those who do know work, as the People's Party has undoubtedly shown. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u130	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. I only, having listened to you very carefully, believe that you have experienced another reality in relation to the equalization of the salary of the State Security Forces and Corpses. I believe that it has experienced another reality and I refer to what happened last Friday when we met in the Council of Ministers to put into effect the update of their payrolls as of the date of the October payroll, paying them all the delays since January. There all the unions of the National Police Corps sat, all the associations of the Civil Guard were seated, recognizing the hard work that had been done from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Secretariat of State of Security, from the Undersecretary of State, through our coordination and cooperation with the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service and the Ministry of Finance, to which I thank for their effective and real work during the months of July and August. It was necessary to gather the Cecier because you had left nothing clear, you had made an abstract agreement, nothing concrete, and you had to materialize and realize much more. But we have had the support and help of trade unions and associations, they have actually allowed this salary equalization with the forces and bodies of other autonomous communities, which will be effective by 807 million until 2020, in three years. This year we already have 310 million. The budgets were approved in July, making it difficult to pay or pay for these payrolls and delays in the July payroll. It has been paid in October with record work, with efficiency and efficiency - I repeat - of the State Security Forces and Bodies, their unions and their associations, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service and the Ministry of Finance, all working, because we are occupied and concerned by the State Security Forces and Bodies, we are occupied with wage equality and will be an occupation for the coming year. Do you know how much easier it's gonna be than we can get? If you too approve of the new spending path, those 6 billion we are talking about. You don't have to approve the budgets... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u132	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ ALBERTO MARTÍN-TOLEDANO SUAREZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO SUPPORT THE FORCES AND SECURITY BODIES OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000759]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u133	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior of Mr José Alberto Martín-Toledano Suárez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, after listening to your answer to my colleague, Mari Mar Blanco, I have to tell you not to try to hang the medals that do not correspond to you because you in the equal pay, your party, the Socialist Party, did nothing, the whole People's Party did. [[Applauds.-Several honourable Members: Very well!]] This is the first thing I have to tell you. The second thing is that it does not threaten not to pay for the 2019 match, it does not threaten, because it is not necessary to approve the budgets, it is not necessary. [[Rumors]] With regard to the question that I wanted to ask you, you must know that the People's Party wants you to demand that it support the State Security Forces and Bodies in carrying out their constitutional functions in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. It does not seem to us that last October 1st the National Police had to be locked up in its police stations and that it was the Mossos d'Esquadra who protected the buildings of the State. What's the reason? Why did you give that order? Is that order consistent with your negotiation on the Security Board with Mr. Torra? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u135	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I'm referring to the same thing again. I guess your comments about this will simply be due to ignorance, bad faith I don't suppose in you. We are going to continue to defend wage equality and it will take effect in its entirety until 2020. Have no doubt and do not raise any doubts in the State Security Forces and Bodies. He seems to feel bad that we have reached a definitive and important agreement and, you know, what? To a trust, which it seems you didn't all have with you. [[Applauds]] In relation to what you tell me about Catalonia, you are aware of how we made a preventive device both of the Civil Guard and of the National Police Corps. Do you know the difference between you and us? Do you know the difference with a socialist government? That we always believe in public safety under the principles of proportionality and necessity. I don't want to refer to a year ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u137	Mr. Martin-Toledano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I do not know if it will be your ignorance but you do not know that your group in the Senate has tabled an amendment in which it says that if the General Budgets of the State of 2019 are not approved, the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies will be jeopardized. You must not know, it must not be your bad faith. Your Honor, collaboration with the Mossos d'Esquadra does not imply submission, humiliation and contempt for the powers of the National Police and the Civil Guard. Or do you understand and believe that you are not able to protect state buildings in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia? Make no mistake about the enemy, the enemies are not in the People's Group, you have them as Trojan horse here supporting you, and that Trojan horse, that poisoned gift can destroy the structures of the state. Be very careful with your friends. [[Appreciation. - A honourable Member. All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u139	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I must abandon your ignorance; I believe it is bad faith. I repeat, if the budgets have not been approved - you can ask the former Minister of Finance - it threatens almost everything, but it will not jeopardize the equal pay because it is what it is and with the necessary instruments, always protected in the legal order, we will compromise our word for that equal pay. With regard to the trust in the State Security Forces and Bodies to which you have referred, this minister has full confidence in the State Security Forces and Bodies not in a formal form, but in material form, and not only now because I am a minister, but for thirty years I have been working with them. I tell you something else, public safety in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia is carried by the Mossos d'Esquadra. We were there to reinforce whether it was necessary and whether aid and cooperation were required or whether there was an imminent and serious risk to our units. It didn't happen either, but we were in direct coordination with the Mossos d'Esquadra. I'll tell you one thing so you can see the example. The other day some Mossos d'Esquadra showed up - I think it was this weekend because the days pass quickly - and when they passed by the command, by the head of Via Laietana they applauded and recognized themselves with the National Police Corps. I don't think that happened a year ago. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DID THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR ACT WITH SUFFICIENT DILIGENCE TO THE REVOLVEMENTS ORGANISED IN CATALUNIA DURING THE CONMEMORATION OF OCTOBER 1? [[File number 180/000765]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u141	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior of Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, call us illusory, but we want to live in a country where the freedoms of all citizens are respected. When the rights of any Spanish citizen are violated, the rights of all Spanish citizens are ultimately violated. A year ago the separatist coup, the coup d'état to democracy in Catalonia and during this year what we have seen, on these last dates, is that the separatist commands have occupied the street, Minister, but they have done so not to manifest themselves but to prevent citizens from freely exercising their right to move through it; they have occupied the railways, they have occupied the highways illegally. Minister, you have surrounded the Parliament of Catalonia by preventing Members, who are democratically elected, from being able to move and leave this Parliament freely. They have occupied institutions of the Catalan Government, they have removed the flag of all Spaniards by harassing the officials who were in that institution. They have harassed the judges and prosecutors, Minister, they have harassed the State Security Forces and Corps, beaten them, attacked them and damaged them on the street when all they did was demonstrate peacefully. They have been leaking into the Civil Guard barracks and, in the face of all that, Minister, neither Mr Sánchez nor you, who is a minister of this government, have been able to say anything. How long, Minister, do you intend to continue to discharge your duties in relation to the freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u143	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I don't know what to answer because I think you're making a story that doesn't obey reality, which is an approach that you already had. It is very serious what is happening in Catalonia, of course, but there you won't catch me. Violent acts, aggressive acts, acts against the freedom of ideological expression of society as a whole, who will deny them? But I think this year is not like last year, when you were ruling with the People's Party, I think there is something less tension and at least Catalan society sees it that way. There are very serious conates, of course; what happened on 1 October, where the Mossos d'Esquadra had to face in a proportional and effective way, were made very serious, but I have not seen that many people in this House have recognized the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra those days. The Minister of the Interior, as it could not otherwise be, recognizes the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra on that day, the proportionality and the need for its action and how, within the difficulty of these facts, they tried not to, guaranteed that they did not have continuity and that a reasonable space for the exercise of rights and freedoms could be restored. But I say again, it's up to all of us not to throw any more wood, no more gasoline into the fire. As for what he said about the prevention of action, we knew what could happen by seeing what had happened last year where, I say again, you shared government with the People's Party. [[Mr Gutiérrez Vivas makes negative signs]] In fact, yes, and in that sense we are taking the necessary and precise preventive measures to ensure that this year does not happen the same, and I believe there is a substantial difference. There have been sad events, but there has been an effective, efficient and legal response. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u145	Mr. Gutierrez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u146	Minister, I find it unacceptable that you should say to all the facts I have mentioned to you that they are acceptable to you and to your Government. It seems unacceptable to me. I will say to you a few words: 'What we are all aware of is that the streets cannot be monopolized by anyone'. These are your words, after your meeting with Mr. Buch. I think they are being monopolized and I think we know precisely by whom. I believe that you, Minister, have delegated your responsibility to Mr Torra. You have delegated your responsibility to Mr Torra and I believe that is unacceptable to all Spanish citizens. What you should do is protect and enforce the law in Catalonia and throughout the Spanish territory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u147	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, first of all, please don't say falsehoods. I didn't say the term can be assumed. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Well...]] No; well, no; either I said it, or I didn't say it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u149	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u150	Excuse me, excuse me. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.-The Minister of Development, Ábalos Meco: At 12 noon he had said nothing.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u151	Silence, the Minister is speaking!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u152	I'm talking now. [[Rumors.-The Minister of Development, Ábalos Meco: At twelve noon]] Forgive me for telling you to be a little more sincere, to be a little more honest. [[Rumors]] For me, ensuring a public space is as important as it is for the rest of the citizens. I think I've characterized myself and I'm still characterizing myself for it. And I repeat again: what happened this year has nothing to do with... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u153	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S SQUEER, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ACTIONS DOES THE MINISTER THINK TO UNDERSTAND TO THE ACTIVITIES, AGRESSIVE DRUGS AND AMENDMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE AGAINST INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENTIAN ELECTED AND CITIZED CHARGES? [[File number 180/000747]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u154	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u155	Thank you very much, President. Don't worry, Minister, IBEX 35 commands usually lie. I thank you for denying Mr. Gutiérrez. The question is: What do you intend to deal with the threats and insults of some members of the State Security Forces and Corps to independent citizens in Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u156	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, I believe that it is a rather simple matter, obviously any action, any action that does not correspond to legality, that does not correspond to our legal order, and more so if it is committed by a public official, be it police, be it civilian guard, or civil servant, that is, any member of the Administration, obviously will have the appropriate response in accordance with the legal order; but I will tell you one thing, any violence comes from whoever comes, also from any citizen who tries to undermine or disrupt the development of coexistence in peaceful terms and where we can all exercise ourselves as we understand it, in those terms, we will be there. But let me conclude that what you are talking about I am convinced that, if true, it is a genuine minority, because the State Security Forces and Bodies, more like you than I, were already born - those who are currently destined - in democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u159	For, minister, I see you so willing that I am going to write you a letter to the Kings: I am going to ask you to do something for the day-time civilian guard, a night-time woman, Lieutenant Colonel Baena, who under the Tacitus profile spent months insulting us on the net. I ask him to do something about the three national cops who mocked Oriol Junqueras when he was in a police van and said, 'You'll see the one that's going to fall on the bear'. I ask you to do something with the savage who took a look at Roger Spanish on October 1st with a rubber ball. I ask you to do something with the inspector of the Verneda Information Brigade who broke the nose of the photojournalist Jordi Borràs under the motto 'Long live Spain! Long live Franco!'. I ask you to do it with the national police of Via Laietana who spit and insulted Congresswoman Jenn Díaz and Congressman Jové. I ask you - and this is personal - to do something with the civilian guard who told me on Facebook 'I wish you were shot and what you carry in your hand that I understand is your son'. And above all I ask you not to allow torturers like Billy el Niño to have a glass of wine in Madrid police stations; but it is true that I am glad that they are in salons and not in which places to torture according to who. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u160	Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, we are characterized by being a rule of law. All those events to which you have referred - I will not go into whether they are true or not -, if they are true, would offend me as much as any citizen. But do you know what the advantage is? That some of them do have evidence that in this country, which is a State governed by the rule of law, they are already being brought to justice, so let the courts resolve in accordance with the proper procedure and that another power of the State, such as the Executive, does not interfere. In those who do not depend on the judiciary because the facts are not apparently constituting a crime and may be an administrative offence or sanction, have no doubt that dossiers have already been opened - as you know - are being processed and the resolution that will fall will be the one that will come. But I say again that we civil servants have a plus, all of us, to ensure political neutrality in our actions. And our State Security Forces and Bodies do it day by day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO PROCEED TO THE CLOSE OF THE MARTUTEN PRISON? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000764]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u162	He also asked the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u163	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. Since 2005, the Ministry of the Interior and the City of Donostia-San Sebastián have agreed to the closure of the Martutene prison for thirteen years and quite a lot of questioning, motions and questions from this parliamentary group, but the prison is still there, like the famous Monterroso dinosaur. That is why, Minister, I ask you, I do not know if now with more luck, when you will proceed to the closure of the prison in Martutene.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u164	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. In this regard, we are currently in the process of drawing up a new plan for the amortization and construction of prisons and facilities. In this sense, the Siepse, which is the state society in this field, currently chaired by Mercedes Gallizo, is planning the set of prisons, in order to determine those that can be amortized, those that require relocation, restructuring, etc., that will see the light soon. Within that plan, I can already say that one of the main developments will be the closure of Martutene, the construction of a prison and also of a CIS, a social integration centre, in the village of Zubieta area, where those lands to which we have referred are located. Everything will be done as quickly as possible. It will be a new prison that will have between two hundred and three hundred places for inmates, both preventive and compliance. It will be a small-medium-sized centre but we understand that it is quite in line with needs, and there will also be a CIS, a social integration centre, to ensure third-degrees and the enforcement of alternative measures to custodial sentences. It is a concern that we have, since the current center of Martutene is 1948, and there had already been that agreement with the municipality of Donostia itself and in those terms we will try to see the light of that new center of Martutene, which would be the North Center III, as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u167	Thank you very much, Minister, but I was asking you when you will proceed to the closure of Martutene, not so much when you will build a new prison. Again, it does not cast doubt on us, it does not give us concrete results and we still do not know a certain date for the closure of Martutene, and again we dive into a waiting table. Minister, we have been hearing for a long time that the Martutene prison will be closed sooner than later, but that moment never comes. You know the problem of this prison, it is one of the oldest in use in Spain. It was inaugurated by Franco and in it it was harshly repressed to Basque nationalism. It is a prison with the same negative symbolism for us as Carabanchel for the Madriders. It is one of the least updated prisons, as you know, and also has a serious urban impact in the neighborhood where it is located. Minister, you have been in the government for years admitting the unreplaceable need to shut down Martutene, you already did it when she was director Mrs Gallizo, who went from building a new macro centre to saying that nothing or just a CIS was needed, and today she tells us that a CIS and a medium-sized centre. They have actually told us everything and nothing has ever been fulfilled. We've been like 13 years, but much worse. In 2005 Martutene had already been included among the centres to disappear because it called into question the fulfilment of the purposes of reinsertion of sentences. Minister, do something with Martutene or, better still, transfer the powers in Prison Institutions to the Basque Country, as established by the Statute of Gernika, in its Article 12.1, for us to do so...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u168	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Legarda, I have tried to express to you the commitment of immediacy at the closure of Martutene when the new prison is built, which will also be shortly. It is a political decision that I have announced today. I have mentioned that it will be an average prison but it will also be a CIS. And as for the dates, I don't mean January, February or June of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u170	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT CONCERNING? [[File number 180/000761]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u171	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Celaá, I regret that four months after the motion of censure you have to ask for another censure, which you want to impose on the media. I have to say that nothing is strange when the municipalities of change, their partners, drive web pages of truth. Nothing is strange when Spanish Radio Television removes the voice of great professionals and gives the voice to thugs in prison. Nothing is strange when, thanks to media investigations, they have had to resign two ministers for the time being. Nothing's weird anymore. Mrs. Celaá, you are very predictable, you always want to kill the messenger. Of course, they have no limits, and what is worse, they have no remedy. That is why we would like you to tell us, using your own words, what questions from the media cannot be consented to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u173	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u174	The Government spokesman replied to all questions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hoyo, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u176	Mrs Celaá, as I have said, and I insist, you are very predictable. I'm not going to quote Aristotle or Ulpiano, I'm going to make it easier for him. Miguel de Unamuno, a countryman of his who, by the way, was also very censored, about a century ago wrote a play: The Returning Past. I guess you'll know her and you might even have her in one of your homes, the past that comes back. All the socialist governments, whenever they have been surrounded by their incompetence, have attacked the media, have blamed the media for all their mistakes, but there is a big difference: in the case of the Gonzalez government this attack occurred at the age of twelve, in the case of the Rodríguez Zapatero government this attack occurred at the age of six, but in your case you have beaten all the records, it has occurred at the age of four months. Mrs Celaá, there are no questions from the media that are condemnatory, what is a real condemnation is your Government for our country. You said you couldn't consent. What we will not consent to is that you attack the freedom, professionalism and independence of the media. Mrs Celaá, what journalists do is their job: to investigate, ask and inform all Spaniards. You do yours: answer. Mrs. Celaá, I have to tell you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u178	The spokesman for this Government answers the questions, does not answer claims that include convictions of persons, violating their presumption of innocence. And it does so because both the Socialist Government and the party that supports it believe in freedom of expression and limits, such as the right to honour, privacy and image, and also in the limits that are set out in the Penal Code against Injury and Injury. That is why we defend freedom of expression and all the articles of the Constitution; an issue that you do not do, unless you are filling out your declaration of goods and activities by establishing and recording the eventual market value of neighbouring houses. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: SHALL THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY SHALL SHARE THE RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S DECLARATIONS REGARDING THE PENSION REVALORIZATION MECHANISM? [[File number 180/000760]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u179	Question to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Question by Mr Gerardo Camps Devesa, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you share the recent statements of various members of the Government regarding the pension revaluation mechanism?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u181	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u182	Thank you, President. Mr Camps, I have to tell you that there is no disagreement within my Government about the upgrading of pensions. The Executive maintains that the revaluation is carried out under the CPI to ensure its purchasing power. At the same time, we are also working to ensure the financial sustainability of the public pension system. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Camps, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I don't know if there are, but, of course, there have been. Day 20 of September, press headline: 'Valerio defends that the CPI is truncated to raise pensions but admits exceptions in crisis...'. On 26 September, the Secretary of State for Social Security said - and, by the way, repeated it yesterday here - that a permanent indicator is needed for the revaluation of pensions from 2020 onwards and that this figure should include more factors than the CPI; in fact, the Secretary of State argued that indexing pensions to inflation indefinitely and uniquely can lead to perverse effects. On September 27th, you are asked about the statements I have just referred to, and he answers, 'I don't know much about economics.' Perhaps that is why the Minister for Economic Affairs was forced to intervene in the debate. On 2 October, Mrs Calviño said: 'On the specific issue of pensions, I have always said, and it is the position of the Government' - I stress - 'that this is a matter in which we cannot fix just one parameter, such as the updating of pensions to the CPI'. On October 3rd, you deny Mrs. Calviño. Title: 'The government is once again ambiguous with pensions and Valerio now supports what has been agreed in the Toledo Pact'. By the way, Mrs Valerio, nothing has yet been agreed upon. You can see I was already knowing more about economics. But on October 5th: 'Calviño denies discrepancies in the government and now ensures that pensions will rise according to the CPI'. By the way, it is not what was agreed - it was not agreed, it was agreed - with the different spokesmen in the Toledo Pact, unless the Minister of Economy does not understand the difference between 'on the basis of' and 'according to'. On October 7, you are asked again if the opinion of your Secretary of State is yours, and you consider: 'Not mine'. It's a good thing there's no discrepancy. It corrects your Secretary of State, demarcates from Minister Calviño and, even with the knowledge of economy that you yourself claim to have, tells the International Monetary Fund - in quotes - to be calm. Madam Minister, dissipation, irresponsibility, boldness or unconsciousness certainly do not lack you as a member of this government. It is difficult, if not impossible, that cluster of contradictions, rectifications and nonsense in such a short space of time. What's the explanation? I will tell you this: will it not be the soaring budgetary pact that you are pursuing and they denying - I mean Podemos - the cause of the bandit of these policies? I hope not. Ma'am... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u185	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u186	Thank you, President. Mr. Camps, as I tend to be humble, I admit I don't know everything. I know more about work and social security than about economics, yes, it's true. [[Applauds]] But you, who knew a lot about the economy, made a unilateral law in 2013 condemning the pensioners, men and women, of this country to the increase of poverty with the rise of 0.25 %. Yes, Mr. Camps. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr Camps, you, who know a lot about the economy, had to acknowledge that you were wrong, that that law was socially and politically unsustainable and made an amendment to the full refund in the 2018 State General Budgets Act; a pact to raise the minimum pensions by 1.6% in general and 3% in general. By the way, so much you know about the economy, you didn't put it in the budget and it turns out you're going to have to make bubble lace. [[Applauds]] Yes, you didn't include it in the budget and that you know a lot about economy. In short, Mr Camps, join in making a reasonable opposition and more on a State issue such as pensions. This Government has no discrepancy. The President has said this, the Minister for Economic Affairs has said this and the Minister for Labour says that at the moment it is me: it is guaranteed that pensions will rise according to the CPI and will be paid, in addition, the so-called straw, the difference between the planned CPI and the CPI that turns out to be the real one every year. By the way, it would be very good if, in order for us to have an additional 25 billion for pensions, you do not obstruct the adoption of a new deficit path in this Parliament. That's what you should do, be responsible. [[Applauds]] And I hope that, as a party that pretends to be a state party, you will focus, as the President of the Government said, and support the renewal of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which is one but twenty more remain to be renewed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE SITUATION IN CATALUONE IS NORMAL? [[File number 180/000766]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u187	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, do you still consider the situation in Catalonia to be normal?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u189	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Girauta, I told you two weeks ago: No, I don't think so. Indeed, in Catalonia there is a political crisis and we live a moment of exceptionality. Once the gravity of the matter has been established, what does it propose? What's next? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u191	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u192	Well, I like this role investment, because in fact the minister is suggesting that I become minister of her branch, but for now it is her, and therefore it is my duty to ask you and not you to me what to do. What I'm saying is that in Catalonia if there's nothing there's normal. In reality there is an institutional kidnapping, three months the Parliament closed. Hey, the Parliament closed because the numbers didn't come out to the separatists. Parliament, after being closed, has been assaulted by the separatist commands directed by the President of the Generality himself, after having thrown them out publicly: Press them - he said -, press; and go if they pressed. The public space, despite the promise made by the Minister of the Interior, after his meeting with the Councillor of the Catalan Interior, remains permanently occupied - as you know, because you are Catalan and continue to go to Catalonia - by party symbolism on one side. Public buildings continue to present the opposite of normality. In other words, the neutrality envisaged in public buildings has become Catalonia's default non-neutrality. Catalan public television continues to function - as always - as a separatist propaganda apparatus. The official in Catalonia either follows it, showing it and displaying it, or mute it, and the reason for its muteness is not that they do not want to talk; it is, as you well know, the fear of reprisals in a sectarianized society. I would like you to at least acknowledge - not from me anymore, that you will never recognize me anything - that it is also your obligation, that what the President of the Government has said here today is true. Do you remember what he said? He said that there is a conflict of coexistence in Catalonia. I live in Catalonia; there is a conflict of coexistence. Do you, as a minister, have any input to make? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u193	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u194	Thank you, President. Mr Girauta, I hope you and I share at least one objective, and it is that normality would be desirable and exceptionality would be overcome. Mr Girauta, listen below the noise, listen to the citizens, in short, what is below that noise and the shouts of leaders, I think it is essential right now. I propose that we review the CEO's survey in its last two barometers, April and July. In April, there were 37% of Catalans who considered the political situation in Catalonia to be very poor; in July, that percentage was 21%. That's 16 points of difference. Do you know the difference between April and July? A change of government in Spain. [[Applauds]] This does not mean that things have been arranged in Catalonia, much less; I wish it were as simple as a simple change of government. Things haven't been sorted out, but I think it's good to recognize that the tension has gone down and I think it would be good for you to recognize it too, because that would help. Today, normality has gained ground in Catalonia, Mr. Girauta. You have much left to recover and exceptionality still exists, but that exceptionality is not overcome by a double ration of exceptionality, Mr Girauta, which is what you practice constantly. The commitment to normality has brought more well-being to the citizens of Catalonia, the commitment to normality has led citizens to see that the constitutional system can be inclusive and respond to their needs. It is true that the commitment to normality requires a political project, which the previous Government lacked, but this socialist Government does have a political project. Mr Girauta, I ask you to join in that path of building a political project to achieve that goal of normality. You leave the exceptionality in which you grew up and in which you live comfortably, but I think... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u195	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO LÓPEZ DE URALDE GARMENDIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO PREPARE A NATIONAL PLAN ON HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT? [[File number 180/000751]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u196	Question addressed to the Minister for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare. Question by Mr Juan Antonio López de Uralde Garmendia, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, two news today: first, pollution has become dangerous to sports in the parks of Madrid for sixty-three days last year and, second, the first cases of indigenous dengue, that is, transmitted within the territory of our country, have been detected in Spain. These are two examples of how environmental degradation is causing serious health damage. The question we want to ask you is whether the Government is going to put in place a plan to prevent the damage to health caused by the deterioration of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u198	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u199	Indeed, sufficient data and evidence are available to advise the development of a national environmental and health plan. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u200	Mr. López de Uralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u201	Thank you, Minister. I will then save all the arguments on the serious impacts and effects of air pollution on people's health, the number of deaths in Spain, Europe and the world due to air pollution, the health impacts of climate change, health impacts due to exposure to hazardous chemicals, radioactive materials, etc., that is, all these exposures to which we are subject due to environmental degradation. As you know, the municipalities of change are working, in many cases alone, to deal with most of these problems. However, it is clear that they alone cannot; much greater involvement of the Government of the nation is needed. In fact, it is well known - it is proven and proven - that preventive environmental policies are not only beneficial for public health, but also a huge saving in the cost of health, and that is why it is important to undertake this plan. I'm gonna give you some good news, which you probably know. Since 2007, the report of the Carlos III Institute of Health, which is called the Basic Report for the elaboration of the National Health and Environment Plan, has been in some of the Ministry's drawers. I mean, what we're talking about here, even though the situation all this time has not only not improved, but has deteriorated, is something that has been in the drawers of the ministry for many years now... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u202	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u203	Indeed, the environment is one of the four major determinants of health, which affects around 20% of health. The Department of Public Health, Environment and Social Determinants of the World Health Organization says that around 24% of the burden of morbidity and 23% of mortality are attributable to environmental causes. In the same vein, the report of the European Environment Agency highlights the crucial importance of air pollution in health. I do not resist mentioning the Asturias Declaration on Environment and Cancer, also of the same agency of the World Health Organization and, as you well indicate, several studies on various elements and that report of the Carlos III Institute of Health that advise the elaboration of this plan. For this reason, the General Law on Public Health of 2011 mandates the public authorities to draw up this national plan for health and the environment. Unfortunately, nothing has progressed in this area in all these years, but be fully confident that this Government, not only by mandate and by being aligned with consensus and with international bodies, but also by its own conviction, will implement this plan and will fully develop the Public Health Act, and will do so in collaboration with the Ministry of Ecological Transition, in compliance with and aligned with the Seventh Environment Action Programme, which, as you know, also emphasizes these areas. We are therefore actually going to implement this environmental and health plan. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u204	Thank you very much. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández asks for the floor]] Yes, Your Honor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u205	On the basis of Article 71 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u206	Tell me. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u207	This morning, on the occasion of the questions to the Minister of Justice, the deputy of the Group of Podemos Eva García, taking up the shield of parliamentary inviolability, used the qualification of assassin when referring to Mr Martín Villa, who was a member of the Government of Spain of the UCD and a deputy of this House. I believe that these are expressions that go beyond the limits of parliamentary decorum, so they should be withdrawn and should not be included in the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u208	I ask the honourable Member to withdraw the expression. If you were not the honourable Member, would any member of your group like to speak?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u209	Madam President, the honourable Member is not here right now and we reserve the right for her to speak at the end of the plenary session before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u210	We have to answer now. I ask your group if you withdraw the expression.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u211	I have not heard the expression but, in any case, if it is an inappropriate expression, it withdraws 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u213	We move on to the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, into the investment policy which the Government intends to promote in Catalonia. For your defense, you have the word Mr. Bel Accensi. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise once again to this rostrum and it is my duty to remind you that at the moment there are nine political prisoners in prisons and some members of the Government of the Generalitat and President Puigdemont in exile for political reasons. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Minister, we are proposing this motion in the spirit that a clear message from the Government can be sent to Catalan society. And I do not want this motion to be a set of reproaches, I sincerely say, but I do want you to be able to clarify some issues about what the investment policy that you are going to propose to Catalonia during this parliamentary term and what the Socialist Party's approach to this is. Without being a set of reproaches, as I say, I do have to devote part of my speech to making a reminder and I will also ask you some questions that I hope you can answer. Minister, you know that over the last 20 years - between 1997 and 2017 - investment in Catalonia as a whole has been 12.9 %, much lower than the population - 16 % -, much lower than GDP, much lower than export capacity, much lower than many of the parameters and even lower than that laid down in the third transitional provision of the same statute, which laid down this in relation to Catalonia's contribution to gross domestic product. Therefore, my first approach has to be whether you, in the forthcoming budgets that you are presenting to this House, are going to maintain the commitment that investments in Catalonia are at least the percentage of Catalonia's GDP in the Spanish state as a whole. A second 2 See Mrs García Sempere's speech, page 18. The observation over the last 20 years is that the amounts invested in Catalonia have not been budgeted either; little is budgeted, but much less is implemented. And it is executed much less than it is executed in the whole of the Spanish State, it is not a question of it being executed less but in a similar percentage, but it is still executed less. So, second question, we would like to know whether they maintain the commitment that, if not in full, budgeted investments in Catalonia should be implemented at a rate similar to or higher than the average. And from here also a small reminder, Minister. You know that in October 2005 the government - then of the Socialist Party - and the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Ministry of Development and the then PTOP - Department of Territorial Policy and Public Works of the Generalitat of Catalonia - signed a protocol of collaboration regarding investments in the road network. This investment protocol set out a set of actions to be tendered before the end of 2012. Of this set of investments, his Government - the Government of the State -, as of today, not as of 2012, had only fulfilled 31 % of its commitments while the Generalitat had fulfilled 69 %. The following year, in September 2006, a similar protocol was signed between the Ministry and the PTOP department of collaboration on investments in the railway network. Here the percentage of investments by your ministry, as of today - not to 31 December 2012 - is 26%. The Generalitat has fulfilled 88 % of its commitments. The reality is this. And don't tell me that this is the fault of the People's Party government because during the road network protocol, which has been in force for thirteen years, six and a half years, there has been a People's Party government, and six and a half years, there has been a Socialist Party government, and the same is true of the railway investment protocol. Therefore, in this framework, we ask you to tell us what actions you are going to push or finish your government, Minister. Look, I advise you the same thing I advised the former Minister of Development: do not promise, but be rigorous in your approaches. And when I ask you to know what your priorities are, I want to know what the priority actions are, what budget you intend to apply throughout this year and throughout the following year, and what deadlines for implementation and completion will be set in these actions. Here, in the field of road infrastructure, I would like to know your priorities. We are obviously concerned with many of the infrastructure that accumulates years and years of delay. We are concerned about what they intend to do with the A-7 section that is not built, both between La Jana and L'Hospitalet de l'Infant and the Penedès part, whether they intend to push it or not, whether they intend to provide it budgetly. What happens to the Coll de Lilla in the A-27, what happens to National 2 in Girona. In the area of railway infrastructure, we obviously have two basic points of attention. As for the Mediterranean Corridor, I know that you are going to tell me that yesterday some of the tests were completed on the stretch between Vandellòs and Tarragona and we are very happy but we would like concrete, and also concrete to know when it will have the European width. In turn, in the area of neighbourhoods we would also like to see concrete results: of what is being budgeted this year, how much will be implemented? We would like to know what they are going to incorporate and what their priorities are in the area of proximity. Minister, we also want to know your position on the airports in Catalonia. I know the evolution of airports in Catalonia and it is positive, but we still understand that it is frankly insufficient, essentially as far as Prat airport is concerned. If you remember, on 21 March 2007 in Esade, Catalan civil society -130 entities, more than 800 people - made an act to claim in relation to Prat airport, essentially, that its management could be done from Catalonia, that it could be managed with the necessary public-private collaboration but from Catalonia. This eleven years later has not been a reality; on the contrary, it has been complicated by the privatization of part of AENA. But this remains a priority for Catalan civil society. Therefore, we also ask you to know whether there is a will on the part of the Government; in this case I would not ask you to do so, I would only ask you to know whether there is a will on the part of the current Government so that this management can be located essentially around Catalonia, that this airport can be made a competitive airport and that it does not have to be managed jointly with the rest of the state's airport network. Of course, we would also like to know what the plans are for Girona airport and especially for Reus airport, which in the last approach was out of step with regard to an extension of what would be the Prat airport. Therefore, Minister, this question is raised in a constructive tone, in a tone of giving the possibility that you, from this rostrum and with the utmost commitment, can address Catalan society and I can offer you concrete results. But essentially, Minister, as it seems that the budgets will be presented in a few days' time and in our group we have not yet had any contact, we would like to know whether the investment policy of the forthcoming budgets will envisage that the territorialized investments of the whole of the State concreted in Catalonia are around what Catalonia's contribution to the gross domestic product represents. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u216	Very good morning and thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin, Mr President, by thanking you for the opportunity you have given me to explain the current situation and all that the Spanish Government is doing with regard to investments in Catalonia, even though we have only been around four months. There is certainly much to be done, but the most important thing is that we have reopened the channels of communication between the State Administration and the Autonomous Administration and that we have also reactivated many actions, as I will detail below. You mentioned a number of budgetary data, and as far as the Ministry of Development is concerned, I must tell you that we have already found in June that there are certainly indicators which reflect a slowdown in the pace of investment. For example, the investment bid in 2017 was 5.7% lower than in 2016, which meant that Catalonia dropped two posts compared to the previous year. Investment awards in 2017 fell by 37% and therefore Catalonia also dropped two positions in this ranking, and likewise the investment volumes we currently have are much smaller than those existing in the last years of the socialist government. But, to be objective, I must also say that if we take the historical series of data available between 1996 and 2016, Catalonia has always been the first autonomous community for both budgeted and executed investment. At first, even at the time of our appearance in the Committee on Development, in which I set out the general lines of the ministry, I told you that dialogue and consensus among administrations would be one of the hallmarks of our political action; therefore, first of all, we have made progress in cooperation on investment between the General Administration of the State and the Generalitat de Catalunya on certain specific issues. For example, on 13 September the Generalitat-Renfe Joint Body met; on 25 September the Joint Commission met in which, although it is of State-General Economic and Fiscal Affairs and for seven years without meeting, undoubtedly Fomento has an important part; in fact, one of the commitments that was evident there was the recognition of €1400 million, of which 759 are for infrastructure investments in Catalonia, recognized by the State as outstanding under the third additional provision of the 2008 Statute. This amount still outstanding, after ten years, will have to be collected in successive General State Budgets, starting at EUR 200 million in 2019. Also in this line of meeting, meeting, speaking, on 26 September I myself with the Secretary of State for Infrastructure met with the Territorial Councillor and Sustainability of the Generalitat. At that meeting we recognized that, despite all that has been achieved in recent decades, it is true that there is a lack of investment by the State in Catalonia in infrastructure and services, as well as in other matters falling within the competence of the ministry, such as housing. Almost generally speaking, we expressed to the Councillor that Catalonia must have a fair deal and that this had not been achieved in recent years. In particular, we would like to point out to the Councilman our special sensitivity to improving investment in rolling stock, which will be one of our priorities in the coming years. For this reason, I would like to reiterate to the Councillor the Government's commitment to increasing investment in infrastructure and, as far as I am aware, the Councillor's statements after the meeting have been very positive. On October 2nd there was also a bilateral meeting for the coordination and follow-up of the agreement signed for the implementation of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 and on October 15th we will have the committee meeting provided for in the third additional provision of the statute. This committee had only met once since April 2007, the only meeting that had taken place. Therefore, this committee has not met for eleven years. We hope that on this occasion we will address from the collaboration between administrations and the generation of a frank dialogue to the investments of the State in infrastructure in Catalonia and, in particular, to materialise the agreement reached at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Economic and Fiscal Affairs on 25 September. I must say that at all the meetings held so far we have been able to appreciate from the Generalitat a clear will for dialogue and agreement within the existing legal framework. Secondly, in addition to concertation between administrations, in parallel, we have started to work by promoting numerous investments, of which I shall go on to report the most relevant. From a budgetary point of view, we are mobilizing almost EUR 1250 million from this year's budget and, despite the limited time we have had, because the budget came into force in July, some positive data are already beginning to be seen. For example, on 30 September, over the same period in 2017, we have managed to increase tenders by 125%, from EUR 167 million to EUR 376 million, and tenders are 66% higher, from EUR 167 million to EUR 277 million. In terms of roads, in Barcelona we are driving the works of the variant of Vallirana, in the N-340, which I also recently had the opportunity to visit. We aim to complete these works in the second half of 2019. And from the Olesa stretch of Montserrat-Viladecavalls, from the B-40 orbital, which would complete the intermediate stretch, in works, of this round. We also continue to make progress on the project to expand the capacity of the B-10 coastal round between the Free Zone and El Morrot. In Girona we work to put in service at the end of this year the Maçanet section of the Selva-Sils of the A-2 and in the first semester of 2019 the section Medinyà-Vilademuls-Orriols of the duplication of the N-II. Similarly, we continue to advance in the different duplication projects in the N-II between Orriols and Junquera. In Lleida we started drafting in July the information study for the N-240 capacity increase between Lleida and Les Borges Blanques and we are working on the report of allegations of the two N-230 conditioning information studies, which are in progress. In Tarragona we continue with the execution of the works of the Valls-Montblanc section of the A-27. We will soon begin the construction of five gloriettes at the N-340 and are working on the drafting of the draft section between Altafulla, La Mora and La Pobla de Montornés of the A-7, which we hope to approve in the first half of 2019. To finish this road block I want to highlight that on September 2, 2018 we got the bonuses that were in process on the AP-7 and AP-2 motorways to come into effect. These measures have an annual cost of EUR 14 million and are fully financed by the State. As far as railways are concerned, we are driving the works of the pending Mediterranean corridor in Catalonia, to which, by the way, I publicly committed myself to an act in Barcelona a short time ago. The other day I read that the Minister of Development has once been to Catalonia, but, as Minister of Development, I have already been to Catalonia five times. Between Castellbisbal and Vila-seca we work with the horizon of 2021 to finish the works. I have to highlight the important efforts we are making to minimize in this section the affections to travellers and goods due to the important volume of traffic that it has. Between Tarragona and Vandellòs, this year we will be bidding for the works of change of tracks in the Iberian wide section and between Vandellòs and Castellón we will undertake, when possible the contiguous sections, the change of width on the existing platform and for this we will move forward in the previous actions. On the other hand, as I was already telling you, one of our priorities is the rolling stock. We are reviewing the actions envisaged in the different plans and analysing the new needs to improve the network service and actions are planned in the amount of close to €39 billion. In terms of infrastructure, these include actions as relevant as the connection with the new Prat terminal, the integrations in Hospitalet de Llobregat, Montcada i Reixac and Sant Feliu de Llobregat, the complete renovation of the Macanet-Caldes line or the implementation of the ERTMS between Hospitalet de Llobregat and Mataró. With regard to mobile equipment, where 145 trains with ERTMS are planned, the new requirements will be integrated into Renfe's material acquisition plan, which will reach an amount for all of Spain of 3 billion, of which a large part will be for trains in Catalonia. At this point, I would like to highlight the appointment of the coordinators both for the Mediterranean corridor and for the rolling stock, which I believe are a good thing and a manifestation of empathy. Within the harbour field, we maintain the commitment for the investment in the harbour authorities of Barcelona and Tarragona, with 110 and 34 million euros previewed for this year, respectively. In the case of the Port Authority of Barcelona, it is positioned as the first in the investor ranking of the port system. And we will prioritise the improvement of the different terrestrial rail connections, where we have already started to work to unlock the situation of the new road and rail access and we will continue with the ongoing actions of widening of docks and moorings. Also, in relation to the Harbour Authority of Tarragona we continue to work for the development of the Master Plan of the port, that will enable the generation of a new south dock and that it is in environmental processing, as well as in the improvement of the road and railway accesses. Within the aviation sector, with regard to AENA, a process has been carried out for the development and modernisation of all airports of general interest, Girona, Costra Brava, Reus, Sabadell and Barcelona-El Prat, located in Catalonia, in order to provide them with efficient and quality infrastructures that have contributed to a very significant increase in passenger traffic in recent years, making this community a world-leading tourist destination. In the specific case of Barcelona El Prat Airport, this commitment has allowed passenger traffic to double in the last twelve years, recording sixty-four consecutive months of passenger growth. It is necessary to highlight the commitment made in terms of investments, included in the Airport Regulation Document, DORA, for the financial year 2017-2021, of which by AENA more than 110 million euros remain to be executed in El Prat. Also here it is important to highlight the Strategic Plan of AENA, which involves a very significant operation, transcendental in the real estate plan for Barcelona. In housing, as you know, it will also have a maximum state aid of almost 210 million euros in the period 2018-2021, of which, logically, 10% has already been advanced, which is 21 million euros. For architectural rehabilitation for this year there are 2.6 million euros and we will soon approve the new actions of the 1.5% cultural call, which will amount to approximately 4 million euros for Catalonia. I conclude, Your Honor, because perhaps you are being too prolific in detail, but know that, with all confidence and naturality, you have the ministry at your disposal to make this data even more detailed and explicit and, if necessary, to ask anyone else who needed or needed it. He has us at his disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u218	Thank you very much, Vice-President, and thank you very much, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I am grateful for your intervention and I am also grateful, indeed, for the recognition from this rostrum that there has been an investment deficit in Catalonia over the past few years. I understand that this is a novelty and a first step in trying to remedy this situation. Therefore, a first positive assessment. A second question is that there is obviously a predisposition of Councillor Calvet, as there was a predisposition on the part of Councillor Rull and as there was a predisposition on the part of Councillor Vila and as there was a predisposition on the part of Councillor Recoder. Moreover, I also recognize that there is a predisposition on your part and I have no pain in recognizing that there was a predisposition on the part of the previous Ministers of Development, who today is our President in this House also signed a cooperation agreement with Councillor Vila and there was good intention on the part of the parties, but then it did not materialize. I believe that in Catalonia there have been very good intentions on the part of all but very few concrete ones and therefore their challenge, the challenge that the Ministry of Development is currently facing, is that these good intentions be realized. I recognize that you have already been in the government for three months, that you are implementing a budget that is not yours, but still your priority at this time is to implement everything that is budgeted in Catalonia, and we would like to begin to know what you are going to budget for the budget that you are going to present to us in the near future. I understand that, with the implicit recognition that there has been an investment deficit in Catalonia, these budgets are going to try to make up for it and, although you have not committed yourself from here to budget for territorial investment in Catalonia around what Catalonia's GDP represents, I want to understand that it is going to be so. If that were not the case, it would obviously be an element of difficulty in the processing of budgets. Also, Minister, I would like to make a few specific points. You have made a detailed account of some things, but not all that I have asked you. I am a deputy in the province of Tarragona but I come from Terres de l'Ebre and we have the stretch between Jana and L'Hospitalet of the A-7. My question was: do you intend to push it through the next budgets? I would like to know the answer to this question. And, beyond the investments planned by Aena at Catalan airports, I have asked him a question that is not of this Member nor of the Democratic Party but of the Catalan society as a whole: whether the current Government is prepared for the Prat airport to be managed from Catalonia, just as for eleven years the Catalan society as a whole has been claiming. We would also like to know your response to this approach. I recognise, Minister, that there has been a pact about fifteen months ago where the PA-7 bonuses were established in the province of Tarragona, indeed at a cost of EUR 14 million per year. But, as you know, the concession of an important part of this highway ends on December 31, 2019. You have already publicly committed yourself from this rostrum and in your appearance that you were not going to renew the concession - aspect that we absolutely share - but we still have the doubt of how you are going to manage and who is going to do the maintenance of this stretch of highway. This is an issue that we would also like to discuss, because we must look for a comprehensive solution for the maintenance of high-performance roads, which we think should be kept regional. In any case, Minister, we continue to be emplaced for dialogue, but Catalan society is going to demand, both you and us, that this dialogue should bear fruit in the infrastructure of Catalonia. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Indeed, we all have some intentions or, at least, we try to look at it many times, but the concretions are the ones that then give coherence to the intentions. In this case we will still have to give a little more time to make that balance. I have basically been asked about access to La Jana at A-7, the airport and the completion of the PA-7 concession. I have taken note of that; I do not know whether there is any other specific question. In any case, yesterday I was asked a question by a senator from Squerra Republicana who asked for the bonuses to be extended in respect of those already approved. He knows that this has some added problems such as, for example, the issue of traffic, because this is the competence of the Generalitat and, therefore, a unilateral decision cannot be made in this regard. On the other hand, as in so many things, many consensuses are needed. Beyond the consensus between administrations, it is also necessary with the social or business sectors, because, for example, there is a transport sector that has not just seen these measures well, which undoubtedly have an impact on the decongestion of traffic and, above all, on an aspect as essential as sinestrality, where these policies have very positive effects. I have put the senator to incorporate this issue into the meeting on the 15th and, in the same way, I would also place you, if I may, to make this one of the items on the agenda of this meeting because, in the end, there is no previous issue, but rather it is a matter of agreeing with all the issues that the Generalitat has pending. If you think so, I'd take you to that meeting, which will be the next 15th. As far as the concession is concerned, he knows that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented the proposal for the creation of a subcommission of study, which analyses how to maintain an important road network such as that we have in Spain, and to which resources must be allocated, which must also be said that they are not being properly allocated, for the maintenance of this network. I therefore believe that the work that this subcommittee can do is fundamental to reaching a certain consensus. In this line I also expressed myself with the councillor, who made it clear to me what his model or vision of the sustainability of motorways is. We do not go into contradiction; it does not seem wrong to me, it is a proposal that seems rational to me, but it does not cease to be a proposal and, in the case of the State, we should have a global vision for the rest. Anyway, you know that within what is the period of completion of the concessions we have decided to generate commissions in advance to anticipate and organize the end of these concessions. As for El Prat airport, it also went out in the meeting with the councillor, I am willing to listen to proposals, but it is true that the original proposals have already little fit given the development that this company has had regarding its public participation. This is now a listed company, it has 51% public and 49% private, and private participation is very important in the development of the project, so any issue affecting management right now has a significance beyond the government's own interests or agreements. It has to be a proposal that somehow integrates this observation or this detail, which is no less. We can see how to vehicle the participation of the Generalitat in some way, but for the time being altering the management model right now is quite complicated. But, well, I stayed with the counselor to address some possibility to also give participation to the Generalitat in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE SUBJECT OF KNOWING WHAT IS THE COMMITMENT OF THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY WITH THE DEFENCE OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION AND WHAT RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS PRESENT TO LIMIT. [[File number 172/000145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u222	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to know what is the commitment of the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with the defence of the Spanish Constitution and what rights and freedoms it intends to limit. For your defence, Mrs Montserrat Montserrat has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u223	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to ask Vice-President Calvo, but today I am going to ask Minister Batet. Madam Minister, on Monday last week we suffered another black day in the recent history of Catalonia. Early in the morning the radical commands cut down roads and railways, and shortly afterwards they received the breath and blessing of President Torra by encouraging them to tighten and continue tightening. The Socialist Government's response, in the mouth of Minister Ábalos - who now leaves us, leaves the Chamber - was to classify what has happened as consumable facts. The day ended with the siege and assault of the Parliament with a campal battle with the Mossos, who defended the institution of all Catalans. President Sánchez broke his silence with a tweet at the same time that the Ciutadella Park burned, announcing to the Spaniards and to the whole world his happiness, his happiness for activating with illusion the electoral mode of his party. That day we suffered another regrettable day of the independence deviation, which began six years ago but which had in the infamous days 6 and 7 of September last year its point of non-return of independence, and today even a year ago of the coup d'état that they did not achieve, but in those days Catalan independence flew through the air the constitutional pact and coexistence. I will be very clear, independence has broken the coexistence, has broken the institutions, has broken a splendid present and economic, social and cultural future of Catalonia, has broken Catalonia. Some 4500 companies have fled Catalonia, 100 billion invoicing has gone to other autonomous communities, and the European Medicines Agency has not come, and I know the reasons well. Foreign investment in Catalonia has fallen by 41% over last year, there have been four hundred thousand less tourists in Catalonia than last year and the Catalan economy has slowed from 3% to 2%. The Catalans not only suffered the fracture of this separatism, but we also paid the bill, an invoice that the independenceists do not care about, because for them separatism is their way of life, it is their business is their botigueta. Supremacist independence, the process, is the cover that seeks to cover up decades of corruption and latrociny. Spain did not steal from us, the thieves are pujolist and their political children, and we have seen it these days in the Diputación de Lleida. [[Applauds]] Sectarian independence is the excuse that has allowed them to open embassies to speak ill of Spain and Catalonia as the waiting lists in health grow and affect more than 720,000 Catalans. Indoctrinational independence hides the more than one hundred schools with barracks, that is, under a great stellate. Manipulating independence is the TV3 propaganda machine that silences the social majority and shuts down the voice of the seny, of common sense, a machine that you want to copy with another TV3, and you want to copy it on Spanish Television with our taxes. Authoritarian independence steals from us every day the rights of Catalans and limits our freedoms, just like you, who have announced that you are going to limit freedom of expression to the Spaniards by gagging the opposition and silence the media. Let us explain clearly and loudly that Pedro Sánchez was invested president of Spain thanks to those votes, thanks to the votes of the enemies of Spain, thanks to the votes of Torra, Rufián and Otegi; a Sánchez, by the way, who in May called tora racist and called tora the Spanish Le Pen, while now invites him to take walks in the gardens of Moncloa. Mrs. Batet, what has changed? Because Torra is the same as last May. What's changed? It is you who have changed. Torra continues to act as if it were only the Catalan people who think, who continue to think and feel like him; and as the supremacists of other centuries consider the rest to be not human, but only beasts in human form with genetic taras. Yesterday the news came that Catalan justice observes these words as a hate crime, but that it will not investigate why it has prescribed the crime. It is a shame for Catalonia to have a fanatic who obeys orders from a fugitive from justice as president. Mr. Torra is not the president of the Catalans, he is the leader of a group of stalkers with torches, he is a politician who silences Parliament and synchronizes and encourages strategies with radical commands. [[Applauds]] What does the PSOE government do while Torra jealousizes the violent with his sermons? You prefer to be the advocates of coup before you risk losing your chair and power. Mrs Batet, I really tell you, and I feel it from my heart: Poor socialism, so close to Waterloo and so far from the Constitution! It is not the parliamentary weakness of the PSOE, but its political irresponsibility that has put the process in La Moncloa. Do not say that they defend social peace in Catalonia, because without law there is only jungle and authoritarianism. To try to appease separatism is to sacrifice all the rights of each and every one of the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, because independence - remember it well - is insatiable and its only and last goal is to break Spain. There is nothing to talk to those who hate Spain and want to break Spain, and you try to calm the tiger by letting it devour Spain. [[applause]] But I want to make one thing clear to you, and it is that, as long as the People's Party is decisive, separatism is and will always be a failure. They'll never break Spain. When we ruled, the People's Party did not give in to blackmail or false dialogues, because we know that there is nothing to negotiate or dialogue with those who want to break up our country. The People's Party Government understood that we were not facing a challenge to the Government, but a challenge to Spain, and being able to give a party response we preferred to give a State response. History will always thank President Rajoy and the People's Party Government for giving priority at that time to coexistence and law over, of course, electoral and party interests. [[Applauds]] The advantages and virtues of article 155 have been evident: it stopped the coup d'état; it guaranteed the unity of Spain; it restored coexistence to the streets of Catalonia; it stabilized the economy and society and normalized the functioning of the Catalan institutions, returning them to the Constitution and the Statute. But above all, it created a precedent, which we saw in Parliament yesterday with the division of independence, and that is that, today, the enemies of democracy know that Article 155 is not a legal ghost, but that it exists, that it works, that it can be applied again and that it has had its effect. Yesterday was one of the examples. Applying the Constitution is the guarantee of freedom, it is the guarantee of a Catalonia of all and for all, and this is the project that the People's Party defends. Today we demand from the Government of the Generalitat what Catalan politicians demanded of the rest of Spain four decades ago: democratic regeneration, pluralism and freedom. It is time for you, the Socialist Government, to demand the same from Mr Torra and the Government of the Generalitat. What happens is that they do not demand anything; you are kneeling before them because you are partners and their accomplices. Catalonia, more than ever, needs democracy and respect for laws and standards of coexistence. It needs more than ever pluralism and respect for all feelings. And yes, Catalonia needs freedom; we want to be free of independent presidents who deceive half the population and lead them to constant frustration and suffocate the other half. And precisely the PSOE allows it, because you are being accomplices, you are kneeling and you have abandoned us to that independence. The People's Party is the party of freedom, of law, of coexistence. That's why we're busy and worried about what's going on in Catalonia. Nationalism attacks Spain and, above all, it attacks freedom. It is not the torches of the harassers that need Catalonia; we revive the flame of freedom that made Catalonia, of our land, of yours and mine, the land of all the vanguards. We stir up the flame of freedom that illuminated our best past and that must guide us into the best future. This is the project of the People's Party for Catalonia and for everyone, because with us the flame of freedom and law has never been extinguished. And look, the more freedom and the more law there has been in Catalonia is the more economic, social and cultural power Catalonia has had; it is when Catalonia has offered solutions and not divisions, avant-garde solutions, and it was the bow of Spain and Europe; it was that Catalonia of the expanding culture free of political corsés. That is why we defend that Catalonia of freedom, coexistence and law. We need more than ever better education; an education that does not educate us in hatred, manipulation, indoctrination or lies, but an education that looks to the future with Catalan, Spanish and English; that looks to the future with ambition and not to the past with resentment and hatred. We want a Catalonia that with the rest of Spain recovers all ambitious and integrative projects. And this year, which is the 40th anniversary of the Constitution, we want to recover that Catalonia protagonist of the democratic transition, where we had two founding parents of the Catalan Magna Charter: Jordi Solé Tura and Miquel Roca. We need the universal and virtuous Catalonia that loved excellence, that is, the Catalonia that loved Montserrat Caballé. And we need an open Catalonia that goes hand in hand with the rest of the Spaniards. It has been a quarter of a century since the Olympic Games and that spirit of collaboration between Barcelona, Catalonia and the rest of Spain, which made the world look at us excited, because they understood that we were all united with the same project, and that is precisely the feeling and spirit of our project of the People's Party; that Catalonia of the great challenges, but also of the small feats of each of its inhabitants. Because when I speak of Catalonia, I never secrete it or separate it; I speak of the 7.5 million Catalans, of all Catalans, regardless of their origin, regardless of their language, their ideology or their race, because we are all Catalans, tots som spanyols. None of this is achieved by politicians who sow hatred, who abuse their power by subjugating half of their population, and we will never achieve it with a weak, erratic and independent PSOE, just because we are sitting in that blue armchair. Because in order to achieve Catalonia's renaissance again, we need the Socialist Party, the party that knew how to live up to the circumstances during the transition and which defended the Constitution. [[The lady]] Unfortunately, however, Pedro Sánchez is not Felipe González. Where's the PSOE with all his letters? They fall the E of Spain when they defend, as Mrs Calvo did in 2013, a referendum of secession; and they fall the E of Spain when you weaken the separation of powers by asking for the freedom of the coup prisoners. Take back that Socialist Party that, with us, built modern Spain. Catalonia and the rest of Spain need a People's Party and a Socialist Party to go hand in hand to defend them, as we did with 155. You've been the ones who've changed. We continue on the same site, defending the unity of Spain, the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy, the law and coexistence, and the economic, social and cultural progress of Catalonia. Go back to the Constitution, go back to the law and love Catalonia again and feel proud to be Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u224	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u225	Thank you, President. Mrs Montserrat, you have started your speech by describing things that have happened in Catalonia: social fracture, economic deterioration, disruption of legality on 6 and 7 September in the Catalan Parliament itself, two illegal referendums for independence, the unilateral declaration of independence. We all know that, we all know that we are part of this House, and Spanish society knows that, but all of this happened during a mandate from the People's Party government, Mrs Montserrat. [[Applauds]] All this is true, but it happened when you were ruling. That was his legacy of first-class political crisis that has left all Spaniards and all Spaniards. You make a description of idyllic Catalonia, a dream Catalonia. It is not Catalonia that has left us seven years of government of the People's Party, Mrs Montserrat; not only has it not left us that Catalonia, it is not even as close to it as possible. Precisely they have made it much worse than when you entered the government. Now, in addition to these seven years of independence from Catalonia in some way - because it was the State that disappeared from Catalonia - now, yes, they now offer us a responsible and rational opposition, as this interpellation shows. You lose the government and you lose the sense of state automatically; one thing is associated with the other. He also referred to freedom of expression. He said that the People's Party is the party of freedom. I wish you could give us some example of that promotion of freedom. If we wanted to limit rights and freedoms, this Government, the socialist Government, would have to take no more than an example of its party: the law on harassment, labour reform, cuts in health and education, the paralysis of the system of dependence, permanent interference with public television and a long time. Believe me, Mrs Montserrat, nor with years of practice would we get the cuts in rights and freedoms that you exercise every time you reach the Government of Spain. Fortunately for us and for Spain, that stage has been over. President Sánchez's government does not intend to limit rights, but precisely the opposite: to make them effective. To do this, we do not need to be particularly original, just reverse much of its decisions and pay attention to what is happening in the rest of the democratic countries. In this regard, you may know that in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and so many other countries in our environment, the way in which access to truthful information is ensured is being discussed, by avoiding the dangers of manipulating public discourse in the face of numerous cases of false news, interested rumors or more or less sophisticated manipulations on the networks. True information is precisely what our constitutional text contains in article 20, because the right to information is the right to inform, but also the right to be informed with true information. That's what our Constitution says. I would know, in any case, if I had heard the Vice-President of the Government warn about the threat to the democratic system of such actions. Clearly, I mean the Vice-President of the Government who spoke in February 2018, that is, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría. If you do not like this quote and the Vice-President's words, you could have listened to the current Secretary-General of the People's Party when he defended those same proposals in this House in March this year. Your Honor, let's be serious. There are no limits to the rights of the media because working groups on misinformation and false news have been set up in the European Union - in fact, the Commission has sponsored a code of good practice, it is nothing that this Government has invented - just as the rights of the media or freedom of expression are not limited and are not going to be limited by some fine statements in addition to Vice-President Calvo. It is quite unusual to question the Vice-President's commitment to the Constitution and the commitment of this Government, the Government of Spain, to the Constitution. This Government's commitment to rights and freedoms has forty years of credentials, forty years of working in democracy for the conquest of those rights and freedoms. These four months without going any further, the four months that we have been governing, with the development of the state pact against gender violence, with the royal decree recognizing and extending rights and establishing measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship, which you certainly did not want to support with your vote, or the decree-law on universal access to the National Health System or the workers' right that we are reconquering with the adoption of a decent employment master plan. Someone who is outraged when he hears of false news and at the same time insinuates or repeats the existence of secret or hidden pacts to access the Government, to reform the Constitution or to break Spain is highly indicative of his cynicism and institutional irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Government does not want to limit rights, it wants to protect them. The socialist government does not attack the division of powers, it respects it. It does not want to subreptitiously reform the Constitution, it wants to deepen its values and principles, and it has not abdicated the defence of rights in Catalonia; on the contrary, the rights, the division of powers or the presence of the State in Catalonia were much more deteriorated and in worse condition with its Government precisely, with the Government of the People's Party. What is really dangerous for our system of rights is the response of an important part of Catalan society to the constitutional system, a response that was taken to irresponsible extremes last October and even to extremes - as you recalled and I also said at the beginning of my intervention - of illegality, of breaking the principle of legality, on 6 and 7 September. A year ago, numerous groups of independenceists, supported by the independence parties, provoked widespread discord in almost all of Catalonia without the police of the Generalitat, then headed by the Ministry of the Interior, acting on this issue, because it was something that occurred during the mandate precisely for the implementation of article 155. More than sixty sections of trains and roads caused the widespread collapse of Catalonia. Mrs Montserrat, radical isolated groups were activated this week, right, with no more institutional support than the isolated and irresponsible statements of President Torra, thus denounced by different members of the Government of Spain, and with the effective action of the Mossos d'Esquadra to restore legality. That's the difference, Mrs. Montserrat. What you cannot present here today is that what happened last week is much more serious than what happened a year ago, when you no longer only had the responsibility to govern throughout Spain, but had assumed responsibility for the self-government of the Generalitat through the implementation of 155. Consolidating this development is the first step to effectively and stably protect the rights of all, in our view. Today we are better than a year ago, Mrs Montserrat, and what we hope is that in a year we can be even better. That will require something that I have repeatedly said in the Chambers, in Congress and in the Senate, but also outside Congress and the Senate. This is not going to be resolved by the action of a government or by a change of government in Spain. This is going to be resolved with the concurrence and complicity of all political forces because they return to state policy, because they return to the constitutional consensus, because from the opposition we also have responsibilities, Mrs Montserrat, not only from the government, and it is precisely from the opposition that we must be able to live up to whether or not we are faced with a state problem. If you consider it, return to state policy, return to constitutional consensus. He would be grateful to all Catalan society and all Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Montserrat has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u227	Thank you, President. Mrs Batet, I begin at the end, which is exactly the same as I used in the first intervention: return to the defence of the Constitution and coexistence. How are you telling me that we are going back to state policies if those who have abandoned state policies have been pacting with those who break up Spain, with those who break up living together and break the law? What state policies are you talking about? [[Applauds]] That is exactly what I was demanding: return to the law, return to coexistence, return to the Constitution and return to the statute of autonomy. You tell me that you do not limit rights, that you defend rights. But what rights are they defending? Perhaps the rights of the political rulers of Catalonia? The rapprochement of the prisoners? The benefits in prisons? The one who opens embassies again to speak ill of Spain? To threaten again with violent acts like the one we lived last week while you lived moments of glory, of happiness, through President Sanchez' tweet? Is that how you defend my rights and freedoms as Catalan and Spanish, as well as those of the 7.5 million Catalans we live in Spain? [[Applauds]] Really, what freedoms are they willing to curtail in order to please their partners and cover up their disgovernment? I asked him a very clear question that he did not want to answer: what has changed? Because Mr. Torra hasn't changed, Mr. Torra is the same as in May, when President Sánchez told him he was the Spanish Le Pen. Those who have changed have been you, those who have abandoned state policies have been you, who have agreed with Torra, Otegi and Rufián - let us be clear - to sit on the blue bench, for nothing else, abandoning us, leaving us alone to all Catalans, to the dawn, to the fate of independence, which only divides us, who wants evil for Catalonia. And I've already explained the negative results that the process has had for Catalonia. Whoever restored coexistence, who restored economic and social stability to Catalonia, was the Government of the People's Party, together with you and with Citizens, with a constitutional article, article 155. That's where we started to end independence. But since you have arrived, with every concession and every assignment, you are more threatening. Yesterday I heard her talking in the Senate about the dialogue. He has not dared to tell me anything about dialogue today because since I am Catalan he does not dare to tell me that you prefer dialogue. What dialogue? With whom? With Catalan independence? What dialogue? This false dialogue, this false appeasement? But what dialogue, if every time they try to dialogue more they threaten? If you've been threatened with a self-determination referendum for this November, I think it's going to be one of the rental bills you'll have to pay. What dialogue? This fake dialogue? Stop fooling us all Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. We are no longer fooled by the Socialist Party, which has lost the E of Spain, has lost dignity in the defence of Spain, the pride of feeling Spanish and the pride of feeling Catalan as well. Don't fool us all Spanish anymore, you have to pay monthly rent from Moncloa to Torra, to Rufián, to Puigdemont, because, as I told you, you are closer to Waterloo than to the Constitution. Since you don't listen to us, I'm going to tell you what Felipe González said. [[Show a photocopy]] Felipe González wonders if the dialogue with the independenceists leads to something. As you do not listen to the People's Party, Felipe González himself says: it does not lead to anything. The only thing that is right for Catalonia is the defence of the Constitution, the statute of autonomy, the Catalan institutions, coexistence and the defence of freedom. The only political party in Spain that defends freedom, freedom for all within the law, is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That's right, that's right. And as long as we are decisive - and we will - Spain will never break and Catalonia will never be independent. And I only ask you from this rostrum to defend the Catalans, to defend Spain. We ask the Government of our nation to require the President of the Government of Catalonia to comply with its legal obligations under article 155 of the Constitution. Rectify, stop protecting your separatist partners, stop denying Spain and the Constitution and apply it. They defend democracy, they defend Catalans and they defend Spain. They have the support of the main party, the most voted party, the People's Party, to return normality, coexistence and law to our beloved land, theirs and mine. The best way to defend Spain is to implement and comply with the Constitution and Article 155 is one of the great paths ahead. You know that and this is the path we demand of you. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u228	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u229	Thank you, President. Mrs Montserrat, it is you who are gone; it is you who are gone. I assure you that following the path of radicality is not good advice because you can definitely lose in that radicality and lose the state sense of a party that has been in government. [[Montserrat Montserrat: The law!]] The president of the government told him at the beginning of the control session: focus, find the center again, stop following radicalism just by competing with other emerging or non-emerging political forces, stop losing centrality because this country needs it. [[Applauds]] I will tell you what has changed, Mrs Montserrat, and I have already said this in response to a question at this very monitoring session. The CEO's barometer in April said that 37% of Catalans thought the political situation in Catalonia was very bad and in July this year that percentage of 37 fell to 20. It's excessive, a huge percentage, unabsorbable, but it dropped 16 points. That is what has changed, Mrs Montserrat, because with the change of government in Spain what has occurred is a drop in social tension, and that we should all recognize. That means that surely the path taken by this government is not so wrong and, of course, it is closer to Catalonia than you and I want, it is closer to a Catalonia where only 20% think that the situation is very bad than if that percentage is 37%. A 20 is better than a 37, Mrs Montserrat; it is insufficient, but better. So I think it would be good if we all recognized him. And no, Your Honor, this government does not give up protecting and guaranteeing rights; on the contrary, what we do is assume our responsibility in that task in order to achieve a satisfactory outcome and above all a stable outcome. This objective requires police and judicial action, but it also requires dialogue, conviction and politics in particular. You abdicated from politics in Catalonia, abdicated, stopped doing politics, parapeted after the judges and gave up discussing and defending Spain's constitutional project before the citizens of Catalonia. With you - I have told you before - the state became independent from Catalonia because you lacked a political project for Catalonia, Mrs Montserrat. [[Applauds]] Do not ask others to follow that path, especially with the harmful results to which that path has led us precisely. And yes, Mrs Montserrat, I will talk to you about dialogue, law and dialogue; of course I will talk to you about dialogue. Because with dialogue Catalan society has seen its well-being and conditions improve and meet its needs, because with this dialogue Catalan society has also seen that the constitutional system has answers to its demands and has answers to its problems and needs. In any case, as on so many other occasions, if we cannot move forward with you, we will do so on our own, Mrs Montserrat, because we are used to you being late. You have spoken again of being the party of freedom, but every time this country has gained a freedom you have never been: Divorce Act, People's Alliance was not; Abortion Act 1985, against; Same-sex Marriage Act 2009; Abortion Act 2009; and then claimed 1985. [[Applauds]] They're always late. Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, did not vote yes to Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, Mrs Montserrat; now you go up here and defend it, but Title VIII was voted by the Socialist Party, Mrs Montserrat, not your political party, which abstained. [[Applauds]] They're always late. They have never been in the conquest of the freedoms of this country, never, and have always been late. They have always claimed - yes, then - a past that they did not lead and that therefore does not belong to them; at least it does not belong to them, much less exclusively. This time, Mrs. Montserrat, what I'm telling you is, don't be late. Do not be late, add to the defence of the rights and freedoms of all citizens, add to the constitutional consensus and add to the action of this Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u230	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON GOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PREVENT AND AFFECT THE SCALE OF VIOLENCE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 172/000146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u231	We now turn to the urgent call of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on government policies aimed at preventing and curbing the escalation of violence in Catalonia. For your defence, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u232	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we present this question of concern about the situation in Catalonia, especially after the events of the past week, about everything that has been going on in recent months and years, and now, as we go up to this rostrum, we are probably a little more concerned about how the two parties that have the most seats in this House get their heads kicked over whether the situation in Catalonia was worse when it ruled one or worse when it ruled the other. The situation in Catalonia is very worrying, the situation in Catalonia is bad, the Catalans and the Spanish know it and I believe that the citizens do not deserve this debate to be resolved with him and you more or we were worse six months ago or we are worse now. Mention is made - twice did the Minister - of a survey on the Catalans' concern about the political situation in Catalonia, says that 37% do not know when and 20% in July, but I would like to know what the Catalans think today, after last week's events, after seeing the separatist puppies on the streets of Catalonia imposing violence and harassment on the Democrats. You'd have to see that survey today. In any case, we present this inquiry concerned, as it cannot be otherwise, by the situation in Catalonia; a situation that we already know and that has already been reported in the previous intervention. There is a president of the Generalitat in the law, i.e. the highest representative of the State in Catalonia declares himself in the law and court rulings. The separatists gain time and take strength to re-edit the coup d'état, and in front of them they have a weak Government, a Government that, instead of stopping the separatists' feet, gives them the instruments they need, I insist, to re-edit that coup and also legitimizes them with an appeal for empty and unconditional dialogue. We have already discussed this, Madam Minister, and it came to me - I do not know if at a time of weakness - that there was no possibility of dialogue if it was not within the framework of the law and the rules of coexistence that we democrats and Spaniards have given ourselves. But then those words remain in nothing because you give in to Torra, give in to the coup and legitimize them with a dialogue table in which you do not even put that minimum condition that you accept beforehand the conditions of coexistence that the Spaniards have given us. We are therefore concerned about this situation. [[The lady]] With regard to the attitude of his Government, that situation began with the very birth of his Government. The Sánchez government is born because separatists prefer it to him as president of the government, which is why Sánchez is today president and hostage to that origin. Sánchez is President of the Government because Mr Tardà and Mr Rufián prefer him. That was already a worrying start. Then Mr Sánchez appointed the Government, that government so apparent and that it has then been scraped into their hands; they have already lost two ministers and have two about to fall and only in four months. But at the time that was not what we were worried about the appointment of the ministers; what we were worried about was his appointment, Mrs Batet; what worried Citizens when that government was appointed was that Mr Sánchez put the future of this country's territorial policy in their hands, that is to say, he appointed you Minister of Catalonia and placed the country's territorial policy in the hands of the PSC; the PSC - I remember - of the tripartites; the PSC which legitimized the independenceists in those tripartites by granting them the education portfolio so that they could mango their widths in schools. [[Applauds]] ; the PSC of Montilla, which led a demonstration surrounded by independenceists and stellates to delegitimize the Constitutional Court, speech delegitimizing the Constitutional Court that, unfortunately, you and President Sánchez have continued in this legislature; the PSC of Batet, your PSC, Minister, you are the PSC that broke the voting discipline to vote in favor of the right to self-determination. In those hands Mr Sánchez put Spain's territorial policy. I don't know if it was another tribute to the separatists that you were a minister of Catalonia in that government. Those fears and fears that we expressed when they named her have been fully confirmed with all that we are seeing. His main allies, the allies of this government, his preferred partner, Mr. Torra, with whom Mr. Sánchez walks kindly and slowly through the gardens of Moncloa, is the most responsible for the situation we are living in Catalonia, is the most responsible for the occupation of public spaces by separatists, is the most responsible for the kidnapping of institutions by separatists who would have to be of all Catalans, is the most responsible for the calls to violate laws and sentences. Your preferred partner, Mrs Batet, Mr Sánchez's preferred partner, is the most responsible for the use of the media that would have to be of all Catalans to put them at the service of the separatist project. You have voted this week in the European Parliament to prevent the separatists from investigating the manipulation of TV3, I suppose that is also part of your agreement with Mr Torra, with the same people who use schools or who use embassies abroad. [[applause]] In addition, we have already seen what happened last week, with roadblocks, railway stoppages, street violence, attempts to occupy Parliament, harassment of citizens' deputies, harassment of members of the Civil Guard, nothing serious, according to you; something very consumable, according to Mr Ábalos; something normal, according to you, which says that there is normality in Catalonia, but you confuse what is unfortunately usual with normality and that confusion is very dangerous. First of all, in the face of this situation, your Government has no answer, in the face of this situation, your Government prefers to cling to a July survey or to a reference to which a few months ago it was better or worse, but the drama of Spain is that you do not have an answer or will have it, that this Government cannot respond, cannot stop the feet to those who use violence in Catalonia, to separatist commands, to the puppies of Torra, because you are partners of Mr. Torra, because Torra is his preferred partner and depend on him to approve budgets, if you want to approve them, and depend on him to hide, so that Mr. Sánchez can hide and not go to this Congress of Deputies to explain his doctoral thesis fake, because that is a fake, Mr. Sánchez's doctoral thesis. You need them, you have to call them. I suppose Mr. Sánchez called Mr. Rufián and said to him: Rufián, that the citizens want me to appear to explain my false thesis, and Mr. Rufián replied: Well, if you pull a few ministers to ask for pardon, I support you. Here we are, that is your Government and that is how you are acting. They need separatists to protect themselves, they need separatists to remain entangled in La Moncloa and, therefore, they are unable to stop their feet in Catalonia. They want to fill that void, that no action, that let them do with a speech of conversations, of a dialogue that leads to nothing. Do they not realize that separatists will only accept their dialogue tables if it favors them, if it favors the process, if it favors them because it strengthens them internally or because they can give the image that they continue to take things from their government? Don't you realize that if you weren't interested, you wouldn't sit at the table and go around the gardens of La Moncloa with Mr. Sánchez? Aren't they able to see that reality? Well, that's how we live. We had another episode here yesterday. We have seen Mr Tardà speaking very clearly: the Socialist Party will have the votes of the Republican Left and will be able to approve budgets - without those votes it cannot approve them - provided that the Government tells or instructs the State Attorney General to withdraw the accusation to politicians who jumped the laws in Catalonia. And I saw no indignation, no response from the socialist bench or the government. They are demanding that they violate the law, they are demanding that they give an instruction for a particular case to the Attorney General of the State when the Government, you should know, cannot do so. For I did not hear any socialist shocked by that request, I did not hear any minister deny it since the second one because they cannot do it, because they need them, because that is the drama that Spain has, that it has a weak government in the hands of the separatists and that is what has to change. We cannot go on like this, we cannot continue to wait for the separatists to impose the conditions on them, we cannot continue to wait for you to agree on budgets with the Minister of Finance in pectore, with the populists, with Mr. Iglesias and then for you to go further and ask the separatists for support to approve them. What will they have to pay? What price will they have to pay for those votes? Will they have to go out again and ask for pardons on the trumpet, as they did a few weeks ago? Will the ministers of the socialist government have to come out again to interfere with the work of the judges by saying that the judicial decisions in which provisional prisons have been decreed are unfair and should not be maintained? What is the next tribute to pay to those who want to break Spain so that Mr. Sánchez will remain entangled in the Moncloa, Mrs. Batet? You ask others for a project, that we put on the table projects. I'll tell you what can't be a project for Spain. It cannot be a project for Spain that you continue to hand over and sell Spain to the separatists; that cannot be a project for this country. [[Applauds]] Correct. Go back to constitutional consensus. You are more comfortable meeting with Mr Torra than meeting with those who defend the Constitution, democracy and the union and equality of all Spaniards. Correct that attitude, too. Talk to the constitutionalists. If you want to apply the Constitution in Catalonia, we are willing to talk to you about how it has to be applied, when it has to be applied. But we cannot let the separatists continue to handle public money, the money of the Catalans to give a blow, to continue to handle the Mossos d'Esquadra, to continue to handle the media, to continue to run public schools and to continue to open embassies abroad to lie about Spain. Correct, let us apply the Constitution together and get out of this situation which may benefit Mr Sánchez, I do not doubt, but which harms all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas Pérez. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u234	Thank you, President. Mr Villegas, the government of President Sánchez is born out of an intractable corruption sentence for the democratic institutionality of this country. What we saw was that it was consumable for a party that had come to regenerate the democracy of this country, for Citizens. [[Applauds]] That's how Sanchez's government is born. And the Spanish Constitution applies and is fulfilled in Catalonia. It applies and is fulfilled in Catalonia much more than a year ago, Mr Villegas, much more than a year ago. For well over a year now in Catalonia there has been an extremely complex political situation, you expressed your concern from this rostrum and I share this concern. That is why, in addition to worrying, what we have to do is act politically because that is what we dedicate ourselves to, Mr Villegas, the executive and legislative branches of a country: to deal with the concerns of citizens. Two illegal referendums were held, parliamentary sessions trampling on minority rights and the very concept of democracy, open and repeated disobedience of virtually all the autonomous institutions or a unilateral declaration of independence, among other issues, all of which took place before the Government of President Sánchez, before the Socialist Government. There was a crisis in Catalonia when he ruled the People's Party with the support of his party and I did not see him present any questions on this issue, Mr Villegas, I did not see him present any questions. This situation led us and has led us precisely to a social fracture that was and is the fundamental concern of this Government. Our effort is to prolong this fracture and gradually reduce its effects, and today we are better than a year ago; we are better than a year ago. It is true that last week there were violent disorders; less, by the way, than a year ago and more isolated, and neither then did I see you present interpellations in this House, nor did I see you present interpellations, Mr Villegas. There was not a tragic week in Catalonia, despite Mr Carrizosa's assertions, nor are Catalans leaving Catalonia out of fear. It wasn't last week when 3,000 companies left Catalonia. It has not been last week when so many Catalan municipalities have seen their government pacts broken, government pacts that served the interests of citizens well. It was not last week when mayors and mayors and councillors and socialist councillors of the PSC, of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, were repeatedly pointed out, were painted and were crushed. It wasn't last week either when family members or colleagues were arguing with each other or even some of us stopped talking. Last week we witnessed the irresponsibility of the statements of the President of the Generalitat; the abuse of the right of assembly by resorting to some of the demonstrators to violence, occupying public buildings or interrupting transportation. That, but everything else, Mr Villegas, did not happen last week, has happened for many months - I would say years - when the government was a People's Party government that received the support of its parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] In any case, all these events, those of a year ago and those of last week, are of concern to the Government and that is why the relevant measures have been taken and are being taken in accordance with our legal order, Mr Villegas, because we must comply with the legal order and apply everything at the appropriate time and in a proportionate and appropriate way. In fact, the Mossos d'ésquadra responded to abuses of the right of demonstration. I know that when the Minister of the Interior called the Security Board you thought he was giving wings to those who want to attack the state and that he was unprotecting the Catalans, in the words of Senator Roldán, but you were wrong, you were wrong once again. Today we must remember, first of all, that last week the mossos protected the rights and freedoms of all, of all citizens and of all citizens. In fact, most of that day's minor injuries were members of that body. Secondly, in view of the possibility of institutional disobedience, the Government warned that it would take the measures that were precise, as it did, in fact, when Parliament adopted a motion resuming the resolution of the same Parliament of 9 November 2015. Our commitment to dialogue has at no time impeded law enforcement and law enforcement, Mr Villegas. And, by the way, do you see them stronger and more united than ever before with the independenceists, who have also said so in this rostrum? Do you see them stronger than ever? A year ago, the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia adopted decisions in open contradiction with the Constitution, the status of autonomy and judicial decisions, in addition to the rules of procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Yesterday the Bureau of Parliament demanded that the same framework be fulfilled: the Constitution, the status of autonomy, the judicial decisions and the regulations of the Parliament of Catalonia. What has escalated in a year is not violence, but compliance with the constitutional framework, Mr Villegas; that is what has escalated in a year. And yes, it is true, Your Honor, President Torra put or intended to put on the table an ultimatum. You know why? Because he has probably listened to those who tell him to be strong, to be stronger, to be very strong, to be as strong as he can be, and to all that he has achieved, do you know what he is? To alter you, to excite you, to irritate you; that is what you have achieved, but you have achieved nothing more, absolutely nothing more. If you had contented yourselves and not followed those who also demand you forcefulness, more forcefulness, much more forcefulness, all the strength of the world, then President Torra would have achieved nothing, the absolute emptiness, Mr Villegas. We make the decisions that we must make at every moment - I told you before - with responsibility, in accordance with the legal order, in a proportional manner and without histrionicism. And you? Apart from taking advantage of Parliament's general policy debate to criticize the opposition and criticise the Spanish Government from this rostrum, what else have they contributed? Above our disagreements, Mr Villegas, above the political and electoral competition of our respective political parties, is the society to which we owe ourselves. Above our particular interests are the general interests, and I do not think of a greater social interest than preserving the coexistence in peace and freedom of a society; for that is the coexistence, what is at stake in Catalonia at the moment; a modern, prosperous, cultured society that is being dragged by some of its political leaders into anger and confrontation. Isn't that what we should be most concerned about? Isn't that what we should most fight each other from our responsibilities? No, you prefer to fight the socialist government, you prefer to fight the Spanish government. We have already seen those who have encouraged the escalation of social tension in Catalonia, we all know them all. Is there anything you could do to point them out by their names? Would it bring something new and positive? Would it help to make a memorial of grievances? I don't think so. The relevant question now is who are willing to make the way back, who want to return to coexistence, respect and dialogue. Things are also done with words, Mr Villegas, especially in politics. Even those with political responsibilities can save us words that fuel conflict. That is why every time we take the floor, every time we have to use a term, every time we have to use an expression or make a decision it is good that we reflect if that contributes to the conflict or, on the contrary, helps lower tension. Listening to his lordship it seemed that we were in the same place as a year ago, with the Government of the Generalitat convening an illegal referendum and with a Government of Spain that did not know how to respond. Don't you think none of that helped the cohabitation? What good has all this brought us to Catalan society and to the whole of Spanish society, Mr Villegas? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u236	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true what you say: that a year ago there was a coup in Catalonia, that there were three thousand companies gone, that coexistence did not break last week, it was broken a long time ago by the separatist project. It is true that everything he says about the remarks, which did not start last week or four months ago, began earlier and, as I say, also that social fracture, economic ruin and even the kidnapping of institutions and public spaces did not start with Mr Sánchez's government, it is true. The difference now is that those responsible for the flight of companies, the crisis and the ruin to Catalonia, those responsible for the signals, those responsible for the occupation of public spaces and the kidnapping of institutions are the partners of the government, they are the ones that support the government of Sánchez, that is the difference that we have had in the last four months, that Sánchez is president thanks to the vote of those responsible for all that you and I have described that indeed and unfortunately has happened in our land. The difference is that you and your Government, the Government of Sánchez, are in the hands of those responsible for all that nonsense that happens in Catalonia, and you, as your governing partners and your preferred partners, seem to prefer to say that those responsible for what happens in Catalonia are others. Those responsible for all that are their preferred partners, those responsible for all that are those you are going to ask for the vote if you want to carry out budgets. That is the drama of our country, of our democracy in these months, that the Government of Spain, that weak government of Mr Sánchez, is in the hands of those who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] That's what needs to be changed. Are you going to continue calling for judges to make some resolutions or others, favoring politicians who skipped the laws to content their preferred partners, those responsible for the ruin in Catalonia? Are you going to continue talking about pardons - the president, the vice president of the government or yourself - calling for impunity for politicians who skip the laws in Catalonia? Will you continue to accept the ultimatum for the withdrawal of appeals before the Constitutional Court? [[The Lord]] You have already made the decision to bring the imprisoned politicians closer to Catalonia. Are you going to follow in that line, in that of yielding to remain in power? I already know that you give that a project of dialogue varnish to improve and deflame the situation, but they do not deceive anyone: all these assignments, which are not your assignments, are divestitures of Spanish democracy, are divestitures for Mr Sánchez to remain entangled in the Moncloa and can last one more month, two more months or a few more months there. Is it worth taking on that responsibility, Mrs. Batet? Is it worth continuing to yield to the separatists, to the Republican Left, to Convergence only to carry out budgets and to endure a few more months in La Moncloa? That is the key question of this inquiry. That's the only thing I'd have to answer to. Are they going to stay on that line or are they going to rectify? Here it has been said once: Don't be mistaken about enemies. But I say to the Socialist Party: They have wrong allies. You cannot rule Spain - I insist - with those who want to break Spain, and that is what your group has to rectify. You talk about lowering tension and dialogue. Mr. Sánchez welcomes Mr. Torra and they walk together through La Moncloa. You open tables and commissions to give normality to a situation that is not normal. But do you know how many times - you can answer me in the reply - you have called Inés Arrimadas and how many times you have met with her, who is the leader of the opposition and leader of the party that has won the elections in Catalonia? How many times have you met with her to talk about the situation in Catalonia? Or is it that in Catalonia, in speaking and dialogue, you only take into account separatists? I beg you to answer me. If you want, I'll answer you: not once; not a meeting; not a call. [[Applauds]] For you it only counts on contenting the separatists, and that's what has to change. Correct, try the agreement with which we defend democracy and the Constitution and apply together the Constitution in Catalonia to reverse the grave situation in which it is. If you rectify, Citizens will be reaching out to you. If they don't rectify, we'll go ahead and ask her. Don't hesitate, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u238	Thank you, President. Mr Villegas, the division of powers, the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens and institutional respect have an ironic health with this government, I assure you, much better with this government of Spain than with the previous one. The exceptionality of 155, to which he refers, and constantly plans on this Parliament and all its statements, is not a solution to everything; in fact, it is not a solution at all. It is an instrument to avoid serious evils and to open up space for politics and find solutions. The space for politics has opened up, and that is what it is now, Mr Villegas. What touches is the space for politics, finding solutions and progressively reducing the scope of the crisis, the fracture and social tension. That's what it's about, even though one believes that with that path it will also reduce the fundamental concern that has led so many people to vote for them. If I understand, Mr. Villegas. To a responsible party, in that case, it is up to it to offer a project beyond exceptionality and a response to the constitutional crisis. That is what will have to be seen if you are able to do, if you are able to propose something beyond exceptionality. Ladies and gentlemen, your party has grown at the same time as the crisis in Catalonia, but it is time to emancipate itself from it, it is time to emancipate itself from that crisis and exceptionality. Today the situation in Catalonia - I said - is better than a year ago. We get among all that in a year it is even better, because it lacks route, it lacks route. I have said it and I say it again, we are not going to be able to do it alone; we need all the political forces, including yours, Mr Villegas. Socialists believe that the solution needs all citizens, all political parties, all; but you must believe it. Until you believe and in that, until you believe that you are capable or that you can be able to break with that exceptionality, to break with that engine of growth that has allowed you to be where you are today, it will be absurd our appeal to you to return to constitutional consensus, because as long as you do not believe it you will not take the step. I think it is important, Mr Villegas, that they be part of the solution and not part of the problem. I think it is important for you to be part of the solution. He was telling us that we were wrong about our opponent. No, you've wronged the opponent. The adversary is not the Socialist Party, the adversary is not the Socialist Government, it is not the Government of Spain, Mr Villegas. It's okay for them to present interpellations, but we're not the opponent, we're not the opponent. And I'll tell you what's worth it, Mr. Villegas. What is worth trying to find solutions to one of the biggest political problems we have in this country. That's what's worth it. And I tell you something else that is also worth it: it is worth continuing to discuss in this House with you to see if you finally realize it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-10-CD181010.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. After the debate, the meeting rose. It was 12 and 50 minutes from noon.
