ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinions of the proposed organic law for the amendment of Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, to guarantee the right to vote for all persons with disabilities, and of the draft organic law on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights. As an organic law, these initiatives must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. I therefore announce to you, pursuant to this provision, that the votes will not take place before twelve o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u2	We now begin with the point corresponding to validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 14/2018 of 28 September, amending the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, approved by Royal Decree-Law 4/2015 of 23 October. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy and Enterprise has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u3	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare this morning before the plenary of Congress to submit to validation the royal decree-law amending the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act to advance the transposition into our legal order of the package of directives known as MiFID II, that is, the regulation of the markets of financial instruments. As you all know, this legislative package was adopted in 2014 and includes a set of directives and regulations updating MiFID I to adapt it to the growing complexity of the markets observed during the economic crisis. MiFID II is therefore born with a multiple goal. Firstly, it seeks to encourage the negotiation of financial instruments in regulated centres in order to promote transparency and financial stability. Secondly, it seeks to increase transparency in the negotiation of financial instruments, as I said. Thirdly, it introduces new developments in the field of investment services companies in order to strengthen investor protection. Part of this regulation is already transposed into our legal system, through a royal decree-law that was passed in 2017, and that the Congressional Economics Commission is currently processing as a bill. I am referring to the provisions relating to the negotiating centres and the sanctioning regime. [[Rumors]] But it still remained to transpose the content of the directives that were to be in force since July 2017 and for which delay weighs on Spain a decision of the European Commission to lodge a complaint and, therefore, a threat of fine. This is, once again, the main explanation that justifies the Government's decision to validate a real financial decree-law that will enable us to comply with our transposition obligations and prevent the Commission from filing the complaint. But this is not just the case, it is crucial to make progress in adapting our legislation in order to avoid the serious damage that regulatory uncertainty can cause to Spanish service and investment companies, and it is also important to highlight the importance of having a complete, true and stable regulatory framework to position us among the most attractive states for service companies in the area of capital market union and, above all, to establish a framework to protect citizens, to protect investors. In this regard, the transposition of MiFID II is an essential element for the establishment of a single market for financial instruments and the avoidance of discriminatory rules in the provision of investment services. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u4	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please, the Chamber is almost empty, and in addition to being empty, there is a background noise with which it is impossible to hear the Minister. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u5	Thank you, President. In any case, apart from the fact that this reform of the Securities Market Act comes to this House in the form of a royal decree-law, I would like to point out that our intention is that it should subsequently be treated as a bill, so that parliamentary groups can participate in its final drafting. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate to you once again the importance of Spain being brought up to date in the timetable for transposing European directives, something which the Government is making every effort to do; and in this context I would like to thank the political groups that are working hard to adopt this type of legislation that emanates from European directives, such as the validation today of this royal decree-law or a few weeks ago of other two that also transposed Community rules, which I believe is a tangible proof of the will of agreement, work and negotiation of these Courts. I now turn briefly to the fundamental content of the Royal Decree-Law which, above all, incorporates the provisions of MiFID II on the authorisation, conduct and supervision of investment services undertakings, the new supervisory powers of the National Securities Market Commission and the new obligations of cooperation between the CNMV, the other national supervisory authorities of the European Union and the European Securities and Markets Agency. With regard to the regime for the authorisation, conduct and supervision of investment services undertakings, the objective of the directive and of this royal decree-law is to strengthen investor protection, and we will not say it enough given the importance of having a regulatory and supervisory framework to ensure this investor protection. In this regard, it should be recalled that while MiFID II does not introduce substantial changes with respect to existing tools, it does reinforce the level of demand and fulfilment of customer information obligations and the degree of control in general. For example, investment services companies - which are mainly credit institutions authorised for the provision of investment services - are prohibited from charging their clients with incentives or retrocessions for financial advisory services and individualized and discretionary portfolio management. This means that this type of commission or retrocession can only be charged when there are improvements in the quality of the service provided to justify it, and that it is ensured that a benefit is not being generated for the service company without also a benefit for the customer. The aim is obviously to avoid the conflicts of interest of the marketers when selecting one product or another, and that they are appropriate to the suitability of the customer and not to the existence of a possible commission. In fact, investment firms must disclose to investors, before providing the service, all information relating to payment to third parties or services received from third parties, including any retrocession. This improvement in mandatory information will also reach the type of advice offered, the financial instruments and investment strategies proposed, the costs and expenses associated, distinguishing whether it is independent advice or not, and the costs of services performed or the prices of services incorporated into a package. Another significant novelty in this area is the reference to the knowledge and skills required of persons providing advice or information to clients. Secondly, investment services companies should have internal procedures to analyse the characteristics of the target market, i.e. of the different types of customers for which each product is intended, and this is an absolutely key issue, as none of you misses, in the light of the experiences of financial products that were clearly inadequate, given the level of financial knowledge of the customers of that product. Thus, with the new rules, the characteristics of the product must be in line with the target audience and be consistent with their investor profile, taking into account criteria such as their level of financial knowledge, their risk profile or their needs. The analysis should also include all aspects relating to the distribution channel and, from now on, the maximum responsibility of the governing bodies of the institutions will be responsible for approving the procedures for defining the characteristics of the investment products. The senior body of the financial institution has to decide on which audience is the target for each financial product and what are the characteristics of these financial products, what is the added value for each type of client, because MiFID II enshrines the principle that boards of directors should devote sufficient time to their tasks and have adequate knowledge, skills and experience to enable them to understand the company's activities, including the main risks and elements of their commercial policy. Moreover, the criteria of honourability and professionalism of course apply to all members of the governing body, and investment service entities are called upon to promote gender equality in their recruitment policies. Thirdly, there are some other developments in the marketing of structured deposits, i.e. deposits whose profitability is linked to that of other underlying assets, to which investor protection rules will apply, even though they are not considered financial instruments for the purposes of Community legislation; this means that companies that market such products are subject to the same requirements and that the National Securities Market Commission will be responsible for supervising the marketing and advice of structured deposits. In order to improve the oversight work of CNMV, investment services companies should maintain a record of transactions that includes telephone and electronic communications related to the entities' own-account transactions, as well as those linked to the provision of the client order reception, transmission and execution service. This is a new obligation that will enable the CNMV to verify with complete reliability the terms on which a service has been provided, marketed or provided to a customer, in addition to allowing it, of course, to control conduct that could lead to market abuse. The regulatory development of the law will establish the type of conversations and communications to be recorded, the obligations to notify the client thereof and the measures to be taken by financial institutions. Fourthly, the obligations of investment service undertakings to execute orders under the most advantageous conditions for the customer are refined and intensified, forcing them to look for the best execution centre in terms of cost, defining the concept of total counterpart, prohibiting the company from receiving remuneration, discounts or profits for directing orders to a particular trading or execution centre, obliging the investment service undertaking to publish annually the five main execution centres with which it works together with information on the quality of the service provided, etc. In addition to these new rules on investment services entities, this Royal Decree-Law also transposes the provisions on the new supervisory powers of the National Securities Market Commission. From now on, the CNMV will have access to telephone records and electronic communications, as I have pointed out, in full compliance with the Data Protection Act, and transposition also includes new obligations at the international level. The scheme for the establishment of branches of investment services undertakings is simplified in the sense that those already authorised in another Member State do not require prior authorisation, but non-European third country undertakings will be subject to harmonised entry requirements throughout the Union, as the MiFIR Regulation provides for the mechanism by which the equivalence of other jurisdictions will be granted, an absolutely key issue, as they do not miss, in particular, at the time we are living. Apart from transposition, the Government has opted to use the regulatory margin left by the directive in relation to the provision of services to retail investors by companies from countries outside the Union, and they will be required to have a branch in Spain if they want to provide investment services to retailers in our country, so that good supervision of their activity can be done. In addition, new cooperation obligations are established between the CNMV and its counterparts in other Member States, as well as with the European Securities and Markets Authority; ESMA, in its English acronym. Beyond all these developments, MiFID II also regulates the obligations of investment services companies regarding two new - well, not so new - and important modalities of negotiation: algorithmic negotiation and direct electronic access. These new modalities and obligations for the negotiation centres in this regard were introduced into our legislation through the Royal Decree-Law of partial transposition, to which I referred, adopted last year. But since these are activities that can generate a large volume of orders, it is necessary to adopt certain additional cautions. Therefore, from now on, companies that make use of algorithmic negotiation that, as you know, consists in defining and transmitting orders to trading centres through an algorithm to maximize the volume of investment, but without human intervention, will be obliged to implement risk controls or business continuity mechanisms to avoid situations such as the crash caused by the operation of these algorithms that we have experienced in some markets and therefore avoid the operational risk arising from the lack of human intervention and ensure a proper assumption of responsibilities. In the case of direct electronic access, companies are required to carry out an assessment and review of the suitability of customers or to monitor the negotiation of persons using the service. I conclude by pointing out that, apart from the transposition of MiFID II, this royal decree-law also progresses in adapting our legal system to three other European directives, that of collective investment funds, known as the Ucits Directive, that of capital requirements, known as CRD IV, and that of market abuse. In particular, it is a question of including improvements in the corporate governance of investment services companies, incorporating in our system part of these directives that were pending, and also aligning them with the rules envisaged for market abuse and collective investment funds, as I pointed out a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the MiFID II Directive is one of the most relevant in terms of financial regulation of those currently in force in the European Union. Its transposition is urgent, for the reasons I have already explained at the beginning of my intervention, and so much so that, in parallel with the adoption of this royal decree-law, the Government has already begun to process the actual decree of development of the approved provisions with the rank of law and, it has also requested that the administrative means of emergency be applied to it, with the view that the transposition is fully completed before the end of the year. The actual decree details the assumptions or conditions for charging incentives or retrocessions, to which I referred, in line with the wording of the directive, and incorporates the rules on monitoring and control of products. We are therefore putting everything on our side to give security and certainty to economic operators, to honour our European commitments and to avoid sanctions on our country, and to strengthen the protection of investors, the protection of citizens. I therefore appeal to your responsibility and your sense of state and hope that you will vote today in favour of the validation of this important royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u6	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Economy and Enterprise. What is being promoted by this validation is to adapt our securities market legislation to different European directives, so we are faced with an update that is necessary and that affects the concerns that have already been expressed in other debates in which it emphasized the need to provide legal certainty in order to address partial transpositions; although it is already pointed out in this text that in the future it will be necessary to develop issues that, due to their level of detail or technical nature, cannot now be incorporated into this already extensive and extensive content of amendments to the Securities Market Act in favour of, essentially, the protection of investors. As the Minister has pointed out, this is not the first time that this law, in this very legislature and by this legitimate procedure of the Council of Ministers before the Congress of Deputies - which everything has to be said, because of its repetition in the last four months, already borders on abuse - we are addressing the transposition of European directives into the Spanish legislative framework. This is why I reiterate my position on behalf of the Forum when, at the beginning of February 2018, I supported before this House the proposal of the previous Council of Ministers, which, among other things and like the text this morning, affected competitiveness in order to avoid what would be a serious shift in investment financial operations, etc., from Spanish trading centres to other Europeans. Precisely, this royal decree-law calls for urgency to avoid serious harm to Spanish service companies and investment activities in the face of regulatory uncertainty or the lack of timely transposition. I also think it is appropriate to point out that in some transpositions of the European directives we have been dragging a certain delay effect which was exacerbated, throughout 2016, by the failed XI legislature and the repetition of general elections, which leads Spain to be the subject of sanctioning procedures. Even after the adoption of the previous royal decree-law the majority of the House subsequently supported, in March, the consideration of a proposal for a law of the People's Group that favored the filing of complaints and the investigation of infringements, as it is deepened in several chapters and different articles of this normative set of today, to whose validation, Madam President, I will give my vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u8	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree amends the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, to the effect that it operates as a true framework law, regulating securities markets and investment services and activities companies. The objectives to be achieved are: the protection of investors in financial products and contribute to the establishment of a single European market in financial instruments, through improved transparency and efficiency of markets, as well as the prohibition of discriminatory rules in the provision of investment services and market access in the Member States of the European Union. Many of the proposed amendments respond to this desire to continue the transposition of Directive 2014/65/EU and are of a technical nature. As we have already denounced on many occasions from this very rostrum, the Spanish State comes with a considerable delay in the mandatory transposition of European legislation, and this is entailing the corresponding sanctions, as well as a considerable reputational cost. Our group, however, will vote in favour of this royal decree-law. We will request that it be treated as a bill, for the purpose of introducing some modifications and corrections to the procedure. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u11	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the Securities Market Act has undergone numerous amendments, on the one hand to adapt to changes in the financial markets, but also to adapt to the reforms coming from European legislation. And it is that the actual decree-law that is submitted to validation today aims to amend this law to complete the transposition of European Directive 2014/65, known as MiFID II. The explanatory statement justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law not only because of the delay in transposing these Community directives, but also because of the European Commission's application to the Court of Justice of the European Union for its failure to transpose them. As I said earlier, it is important for the new Government to have among its priorities the completion of these delays and, therefore, its willingness to transpose the directives in time, something which has not been achieved so far and which will also be done by giving the groups the capacity to discuss and express their views on the issues and issues they bring to bear in order to achieve the best possible adaptation to the various directives in our legislation. [[Rumors]] It is true from this group that in the last year both the delay in transposition and the excessive use of the royal decree-law have been criticized, because we understand that the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional precept cannot be affirmed, since the directives usually involve a situation that is more than predictable because the transposition dates are known and therefore Brussels should be no longer used as a threat in this respect and should be well done. In particular, the provisions of that directive are transposed with regard to the authorisation, conduct, supervision of investment services, and also with regard to the new powers of control of the CNMV and those establishing new obligations for cooperation between the CNMV and the national supervisory authorities of the European Union and the European Securities and Markets Agency. In addition, this transposition aims to avoid regulatory uncertainty for these services and investment firms and which, if not implemented, could undermine their competitiveness in European markets. We can highlight, among other things: the prohibition of incentives or retrocessions in the provision of financial advice by marketers in the sale of products, the obligation to design products in accordance with a coherent process, and also with a correct identification of those potential customers to ensure that this product is suitable for the type of customer it is addressed to, and that events that have occurred in the past in the financial crisis are not repeated again; the development by investment services companies of a register that includes telephone and electronic communications related to the execution of customer orders to improve not only the supervisory work of the CNMV, but also the internal control of the entity; the regulation of the establishment of branches and the free provision of services in the field of cross-border action, distinguishing, yes, their regulation according to the scope of the European Union or according to the scope of third countries. However, and as a small criticism, we must point out that a future regulatory development is left to the impossibility of receiving incentives or commissions, a matter that is important that, of course, from our point of view should be regulated in this royal decree and subsequently in a bill, especially to ensure the interests of customers and avoid potential conflicts of interest. In short, given the need for full transposition of the reference directive, this group will vote in favour of validation. Moreover, as it will be treated as a draft law, it will, as I have already said, give the possibility of making modifications to the proposal of the different groups for their improvement, but it must also be said that it should not be obvious that neither the requirements of the principle of legal certainty, the legitimizing elements of the use of the royal decree-law, the constitutional jurisprudence and the lack of diligence in the transposition of directives constitute circumstances which, of course, must be highlighted. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u12	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u13	Good morning, Madam President. With your permission. Good morning, everybody. Responsibility and sense of state, Minister. Not the one or the other in the hallway... Mrs. Lastra, please, I'm also interested in you hearing it. [[Addressing Mrs. Lastra Fernández who at that moment talks with Mr. Simancas Simancas in the chair]] I was telling the minister that with regard to responsibility and the sense of state, neither in the walk between the picaresc and the splendid that his government partner, Mr Borrell, gave yesterday afternoon in the Constitutional Chamber of this house. I take it as an anonymity of what is responsibility and sense of state, but I feel appealed for your claim to responsibility and sense of state and I come to tell you that little has to be said about a real decree that transposes a rule of the European Union that comes to us on our own initiative and that we are obliged to transpose. However, allow me two reflections. The first is that at this point in the film we cannot continue to assume that as it comes from Europe it is certainly good; it is certainly not worse. The second is that, although it may be a good regulation, its legal transposition requires better implementation. To illustrate this, I will refer to what we have been seeing and suffering in the Committee on the Financial Crisis. Over many months we have reviewed and verified the disastrous management of our financial managers. And one wonders: the low interest rates maintained by the ECB when the credit bubble was inflated here to what interest they served? Of course, not those in the periphery of Europe, with an inflation rate that made it rational to be in debt, since the real interest was negative. In any case, they catered to those of a European centre with much weaker growth and a lack of internal demand that compensated - poor of us - with the huge peripheral demand fed by the credits that encouraged us to contract. If you believed in the conspiracy, I would say that someone in Europe thought - in that season you were there, perhaps you can confirm it - that the best way to control the people of the South was to mortgage it. I would also say that, if it was a trap, we fell on four legs, as we fell shortly afterwards when we believed at once his story and accepted that all the fault was ours, that the German and French bankers who had considered it opportune to finance our real estate bubble did not have to suffer any loss and, as an act of contrition, we rushed to change the Constitution and, then, yes, in four days we guaranteed that their credits were above everything, everything. While it is true that our bankers were guilty, because the Banco de España did not carry out its task, it was not the citizens at all, because a low interest rate is like a traffic light in green. And who can blame the accident he crossed in green? Having yielded monetary policy and fixing interest rates did not exempt us from seeing, monitoring, controlling what was going on. This has a lot to do with this royal decree, since when we pass it we cede our favorite control instrument, which is entry control. Whether through opposition or administrative licenses, entry control is almost the only form of control we know; what happens next, we are hardly concerned, as the Banco de España did not worry about what the bank was doing while the bubble inflated. With this decree the CNMV loses control of entry. Any financial operator in the European Union can also be from Spain without asking for permission. Is that what we forget to control ourselves? If that were the case, there would be no blame for this decree. If, on the contrary, this decree serves to start to change in Spain the habits of regulation and control, which in no way can adhere to the control of entry, today would be a great day. Why don't we dare celebrate? Why do we have doubts, Minister? Probably because it is still time for us to hear some self-criticism from the Banco de España, from the regulators, from the political parties on both sides that named the managers of both sides. The very fact that we approve this transposition by pressing the limit only increases our doubts. On the other hand, it is very sad to see how the European Union produces and States transpose legislation for the single market and, on the other hand, there are no laws to protect citizens from the market. For example, where is the single European bank deposit guarantee? Should we unify the financial market for businesses and keep citizens' rights fragmented? When will we discuss in this House, Minister, members of the government and members of the PSOE, the proposals that we will bring to Europe to protect Europeans? As I said at the outset, we cannot assume that everything that comes to us from Europe is perfect or that the adoption of a law adopts the necessary habits for it to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u15	Madam President, good morning. Mrs Calviño, Minister for Economic Affairs, in a country with a serious government we would not be here at nine o'clock in the morning or we would be doing something else, because, obviously, a package of directives of transcendental importance of 2014 would have been transposed not of urgency by a decree-law, but by a draft law, in order to be pointers on a question that we have to address from all, all, which is the harmonisation of our rules in order to have competitive financial markets, which is an essential condition for the economy. [[Applauds]] We are at the limit of the bell and you yourselves consider that transposition is not all the complete and correct that it should be and that, therefore, it should be treated as a bill, and already advance you that a responsible party like Citizens, obviously, will vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law, because there is no other remedy, for a question of responsibility. Just as there are times when we oppose projects that do not seem right to us, on this occasion, obviously, a responsible party can do nothing but support this validation. However, let me touch on an elementary issue. Here we are talking about decree-laws. This is Decree-Law 14/2018; then comes the 15. You carry twelve decree-laws in front of zero bills since you've been in the government. That is to say, this government, supposedly of dignity, which came to collaborate with Congress, has not yet brought a single bill and we are now going through the twelfth decree-law that enters this House. [[Applauds]] However, the document that you sent to Brussels on Monday with the budget plan did refer to nothing less than four preliminary bills, but all of them to raise taxes; rather, one to raise taxes, which is the draft budgets, and three others to create new taxes on digital multinationals and financial transactions, which is very related to this transposition, and supposedly also to fight tax fraud. The basic question is that it seems to you that bills only exist to create new taxes. There are some issues that are quite obvious. Taxes are always raised by decree-law, and the amazing thing is that you intend to raise them in budgets, and I mean the diesel tax. I have talked about this with my colleagues, Finance Inspectors, and they are shocked, because you are announcing a rise in the diesel budget and you are going to give oil operators several months to get the corresponding diesel out of the refineries to the current tax and then sell it with the new taxes. That is to say, it is the culmination that the first months will give the diesel collection to the oil operators, who will speculate. You want to fight speculation, for what you create a Tobin tax, and the first thing you do is give the money to oil operators to speculate. This is one of the jewels that brought us on Monday in the budget plan sent to Brussels. [[Applauds]] By the way, speaking of this issue and of the respect due to the House, when reading the fourth paragraph, it is surprising to see how you report to Brussels on the implementations, and I read the budget plan that you have sent to you textually: Likewise, the Government is working on the adoption by the Courts of the new proposal for a budgetary consolidation path approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. This proposal was voted here on the 27th and was rejected, and you were here. Why do they not tell Brussels that the budgetary path has been rejected and that what they are sending is a budgetary plan with an expressly rejected budgetary path? [[Applauds]] I tell you that with a minimally serious government we would not be talking about this today. Indeed, because of this lack of transposition the investment services companies are losing market, the customers are less protected and the Spanish economy is losing opportunities and, therefore, the transposition must be carried out, but it must be done well, because last week we also learned from the press that one of the members of the Council of Ministers who approved this transposition was directly affected by article 234 of the norm. I am referring to Mr Borrell, who, as he himself has reported, was recently given a sanction for using privileged information, and according to Article 234 of this rule, which has been published in the BOE, is already in force and today we are going to validate, the CNMV may not have published Mr Borrell's sanction. In a country with a serious government, Mr. Borrell would not be in the government after admitting that he operated with privileged information. [[Applauds]] The question to be asked, Mrs Calviño - you see that, as you do not listen to me, you are not going to answer me - is smooth and plain if you took into account the conflicts of interest in the Council of Ministers when giving their approval, because you are presenting this, Mrs Calviño, but it is obviously the Council of Ministers as a whole that approves the decree-law, and we do not know whether, first of all, Mr Borrell informed the President of the Government that he was sanctioned for operating with privileged information and, secondly, whether he refrained from dealing with a bill which directly and personally affected him and which has already been published in the Official Gazette of the State, which is another important doubt. Still, we believe this has to be validated. One last issue that is pending and which we think is particularly relevant is that, in accordance with this directive and in order to protect investors and reduce the fees of those in discretionary management - we are talking about half a million participants - they must transfer these funds to other, cheaper classes. This transfer, in accordance with Spanish law and if voluntarily requested by the participants, is tax-free or, rather, this IRPF differs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 500 000 participants, so it is not possible to collect the signature from them. In these circumstances - I conclude, Madam President - the first question I ask you is whether you, in your idea of cruising investors, claim that these 400,000 natural persons go ahead with taxes if they do not collect signatures. And with regard to the 100,000 investors, legal and non-residents, I would like to know whether they are willing to adopt regulations that allow them to defer these taxes. This is a key issue, because what we do not think can be that we adapt the rules in such a way that those who lose are always investors. All this being said and thanking the President for her flexibility, nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u16	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u17	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Calviño, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de la Torre, in a serious country, when a Member comes up to talk about MiFID II, he should talk about MiFID II and not about diesel, basically because I would have liked to know what the position of Citizens is with regard to the initiative, but you can see that you apply the criterion of the serious country as you please. In any case, you, Mrs Calviño, bring us today the validation of a royal decree-law that transposes part of directive 2014/65, which was partially already validated by a royal decree-law that also brought in extremis Mr De Guindos - who knew in advance the sinking of the People's Party and left before he caught him on the road - and which, if important, did not pick up the most substantive part of the transposition of the directive, which is the one that you bring us to Congress today. Moreover, the surrealist situation was that the National Securities Market Commission was already adopting regulations on the basis of the directive without having any support in national legal coverage. So, to the extent that this royal decree-law comes to cover some of these gaps, it is welcome, especially because it seeks to incorporate into national law issues that should put an end to some of the financial practices that gave rise to the crisis that we have been suffering: it seeks to make markets more secure and transparent, it seeks to restore confidence on the part of investors in their managers, it seeks to bring unregulated market exchanges to regulated markets and it increases the supervisory capacity of the National Securities Market Commission. We are surprised why the People's Party did not approve the whole directive when it partially transposed the first directive. We can only consider, in terms of assumptions, that it is a directive that does not like markets and financial operators, because it increases the complexity of the process and, above all, because it increases the costs of operations, although they do not, of course, allude to the main reason behind the directive, which is to try to prevent them from committing the same abuses and to carry out the same practices, in their processes of capitalisation and recapitalisation, which gave rise to the financial crisis and which, in the specific case of preference and subordinate obligations, have ruined more than seven hundred thousand families in this country. If this serves to avoid that in the future, welcome be. However, there are different points of disagreement with this royal decree-law that we have to move you. First, you revive Romanones when you over-abuse referral to regulation of issues that are fundamental. You know what Romanes said: Do you the laws, which I already take care of the regulations. For here is the practical example of what Romanones was saying. Moreover, in the third general provision they make a non-petita excuse, saying: we make the translation according to the minimum possible and to the regulation of the majority. They do not regulate very delicate issues, such as the prohibition of incentives or retrocessions - there is one in particular that the banking and the financial system are particularly concerned that it does not occur and yet you refer it to regulations and do not already include it in the legal text - the obligation to record telephone conversations and electronic communications - that being such a sensitive content does not appear in the legal text - or the general duty to inform customers - all that has in the past allowed direct or indirect fraud to investors and savers to refer it to regulations - and the regulation of conflicts of interest, as if it were little to refer it to regulations. It seems, Minister - I would like to be mistaken, and if so correct me - that you are carrying out a simple procedure, speedily and in order to avoid punishment. It is all right to avoid punishment, it is all right, but there are matters of substance and quiet added that are not collected or referred to regulations and that we believe should be present in this royal decree-law and are not. Firstly, the text refers at all times to market protection and forgets that European rules on securities market regulation since 1988 specifically and explicitly include the protection of customers' rights. The object of the Royal Decree-Law - Article 1 - does not contain such a reference to the protection of customers' rights. Secondly, it does not include the definition of a retail customer and the definition of a professional customer is very lax, when it is precisely the retail customers who are the main affected and therefore have to be the object not only of a greater definition, but of an aggravated protection. Thirdly, you keep talking about structured deposits, as if everyone understood what a structured deposit is; as if everyone assimilated a structured deposit to a term, when you know perfectly well that a structured deposit is a deposit plus a derivative that has risks that can lead the investor even to losing the invested capital. As for the general duty of information, the Royal Decree-Law refers to the goodwill of financial institutions and to the fact that the information is impartial, clear and not misleading. I am sure that in the brochures of the entities that issued preference and subordinated the information was impartial, clear and not misleading from their perspective. They again avoid talking about the evaluation and prior approval of these brochures by the Banco de España and the National Securities Market Commission. So, despite having a sense of state and having a sense of responsibility, as we have been demonstrating in the pact to carry out the budgets for the next year, we cannot vote affirmatively for the validation of this royal decree-law, because we seem to deliver a blank cheque, given the abuse of regulatory development. Nor do we want the Commission to end up imposing a fine on Spain for something that the People's Party should have done in time and form at the time; we will abstain; we will vote in favour of its validation as a bill. In any case, you do not worry, that the People's Party and Citizens will vote in favour and you should ask yourself why. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u18	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Welcome back. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the validation, as you know, of the Royal Decree-Law 14/2018 amending the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, which seeks to transpose several European directives into our country's legal system. Now that it has been ten years since the beginning of the financial crisis, with the fall of Lehman Brothers, we can take stock and, in the matter before us today, we can say that the legislation was at least improved. The citizens of this country have suffered a great deal during the crisis; poor marketing of financial products led to significant losses, especially to small investors who were not aware of the risks they were taking. Monitoring mechanisms have failed and, despite existing legislation, we can say - as I said - that the lack of protection for financial consumers has led to incorrect marketing. To improve legislation in this area, the Union launched a legislative package in 2014: the one known as MiFID II, which was already improving the MiFID I, which was in 2007. Yes, they have heard well, year 2014; we are in 2018. This was the usual focus of the previous government of the People's Party, which did not deal in time or form the transposition of this type of European legislation to which we are bound as partners. This transposition has therefore become late, very late, and a socialist government has had to come to make it, by the way, a responsible government with our country's commitments to Europe and which believes in the European project. At this point, I cannot fail to mention the inheritance received, which is so much used on other occasions. The People's Party left seventy-two directives pending transposition, twenty-six with the deadline and twenty-three with open infringement proceedings, and this is one of them. The failure to transpose this directive in time, in addition to disrupting the functioning of the single European market, causes legal uncertainty for service companies and investment activities in our country. The regulatory uncertainty about the non-transposition of this directive consequently affects the competitiveness of companies based in our country and causes it to lose the attractiveness of this type of company, which is mainly important now, when companies are being relocated by the Brexit. Fortunately for the Spaniards, a few months ago the government changed, and the current little has to do with the past. From the very beginning, Minister Calviño here in the House has demonstrated to us on more than one occasion the will of the present Government to transpose, speed up and speed up its processing, all the pending directives, and this is another example. Some of you have also been able to criticize the forms, i.e. the legislative tool used, the actual decree-law, but given the delay and accumulation of pending rules was and is the fastest tool and the one that allows us to fulfil our duties with Europe already. Since the will of the Government and its group is also to be able to reach comprehensive agreements, we call for the processing of the bill. On this occasion, which concerns us today, this bill aims, in addition to fulfilling our obligations and avoiding the sanctions already announced, to guarantee legal certainty and eliminate uncertainty in the sector and to improve transparency and protection for consumers, a fundamental issue for the Socialist Group, as we have already stated on more than one occasion, for example, in the handling of the Royal Decree-Law 21/2017. I will not go in to mention the details that this royal decree incorporates - the minister has already degenerate them perfectly - but I want to stop at that it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the investor. That is why we find many positive measures within this royal decree that will prevent or minimize the effects in the past of bad practices in the marketing of complex financial products, the rules of conduct that are now required for market operators, the greater transparency and protection that are collected for financial consumers themselves and the policy of incentives that the institutions of the sector will be obliged to carry, in which the quality of the service provided or perceived by customers will also have much to do with it. This will also sound to you, because many times we have discussed it in this House: the bad practice there has been in the past and the lack of control over the marketing of many financial products. That is why the processing of this royal decree-law becomes urgent and necessary. In addition, it will be treated as a draft law to coordinate it with two other legislative initiatives that are pending before the Economic Commission and that also affect the Securities Market Act in the same articles as this Royal Decree, which are the draft law from Royal Decree-Law 21/2017, which transposed part of MiFID II, and the proposed law brought here by the People's Party, which amended Law 10/2014 on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions. In the interest of consensus and in order to facilitate the processing, we believe that it is necessary to request the processing of this initiative as a draft law. I also want to thank the groups for the validation of this royal decree-law, some more than others. Listening to the spokespersons, for example, to the spokesman for Citizens, and seeing their sense of state and what they like about pre-projects and bills, I must tell you that we do not understand how they continue to block in the Bureau of Congress initiatives that have the majority of support from this House. [[Applauds]] If you have such a sense of state and are so convinced, what you have to do is to allow, at least, your debate and stop blocking and using an institution such as the Bureau of this House, because all we needed to do was listen to the initiative that leaked into the media yesterday, which was nothing but try to block from the Bureau of Congress that the General Budgets of the State could come to this House. In conclusion, what we do today by validating this royal decree-law generates confidence in our country and improves the image of our country vis-à-vis our European partners. To put it another way, this is patriotism of the good and not what some people did yesterday walking through the corridors of Brussels. [[Applauds]] One last point. Perhaps, and only if the former People's Party Government had complied with Brussels in transposing outstanding directives or in meeting deficit targets, would they make a little more of a case when they are going to shout at this government and undermine the image of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u20	Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u21	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Montero, in a really serious country a vice president, the vice president in pectore of the government, does not go to jail to negotiate with a criminal the general budgets of the state. [[Applauds]] Turning to the question, if anything has become clear to us after dozens of appearances in the Committee of Inquiry on the causes of the crisis in the Spanish financial system, it is that the European regulation on markets in financial instruments was insufficient and was not adapted to the new reality in the functioning and functioning of the markets. This was a reality that presented new scenarios of action, new modalities of service delivery and new products that undoubtedly posed new risks and, at the same time, new challenges. Without purporting to be exhaustive, the few requirements contained in the previous regulation regarding bilateral negotiation, the emergence of new platforms or new technological advances had enabled the inefficient functioning of markets and the development of poorly controlled and transparent activities. Even more serious, the negligent supervision allowed the marketing of complex financial products, implying the unprotection of retailers due to lack of information and large losses for these unqualified investors. The sale of products clearly not adapted to the customer profile was allowed, given the high risk they took without the necessary training and information. And here I am referring, as you all imagine, to the situation that many Spanish savers have experienced with the sadly famous preferences. At this point we must reflect and understand the gravity of the situation. We were in a context characterized by a deep crisis of savings banks, with real problems to survive. In fact, we were witnessing the sinking of many of them while Mr Zapatero's Government was not making any decisions to deal with the extreme situation. Rather, he would argue that the decisions that were then made accentuated the drama since Mr Zapatero's Government, in view of the impossibility of going to markets that were closed for many entities, allowed and encouraged the issuance of complex products and their sale to retail customers, to savers without sufficient financial training to assess the risk of investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only give you some data: while almost EUR 18 billion of preferences had been issued between 2000 and 2008, in 2009 a double milestone was marked, the issue of these products was record, EUR 11600 million, which in fact means issuing 65% of what was issued in the previous nine years in a single year. To this it was added that this was placed massively among small investors, something that only happened in one country. Indeed, Spain. And it is that this strong issue coincided with the increase in regulatory capital requirements, so entities were extremely interested in placing these instruments, as they counted as capital in solvency regulation. This intense issue also coincided with a loss of interest on the part of institutional investors for the situation and mistrust generated by savings banks, and led to even more placement among retailers. But, ladies and gentlemen, that was only possible because no one prevented it or corrected it, that is, it would seem that it even encouraged it, and then what happened happened. It was therefore necessary to face the situation and make decisions to prevent that from happening again, and that was done. When the People's Party Government arrived in 2012, it resolutely faced the situation by making the necessary decisions: it brought up the toxic assets of banks and boxes with the so-called Guindos decrees, negotiated with Europe a MOU once the needs of the system had been analysed and passed laws aimed at alleviating the families and businesses that had been punished during the crisis; laws that included actions to support preference subscribers to recover their money and measures to prevent the recurrence of similar fraud in the future. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the situation was finally faced. This meant being able to enjoy a financial system that was not an aggravating factor for the economic crisis because of its weakness or non-compliance with its functions, as it had previously been. In fact, the financial system has since acted as a key element in explaining the differential economic growth in Spain that we have enjoyed in recent years. The restructuring of the financial system made it possible to safeguard the savings and deposits of millions of Spaniards - yes, the depositors, not the banks, were the ones that were safeguarded -, returned confidence to the markets and created favourable conditions for the flow of credit. These are conditions that we all know are essential for economic recovery and job creation, conditions, by the way, that had not been generated between 2008 and 2011. Returning to the royal decree that brings us here today, the one that transposes the so-called MiFID II, is a measure that we could describe as the fruit of our work. We have already brought into the government a partial transposition of the MiFID II and the regulations that the Socialist Executive brings us today complete this transposition. Although the new regulation of the securities market which entered into force on 3 January has been transposed into the Spanish legal system the most urgent and indefatigable aspect, the one concerning the trading centres, it was essential to make progress on the two remaining axes, and this is done with this regulation which is presented to us today for validation. In this transposition it is possible to substantially strengthen the protection of the investor, increasing the level of demand and concreteness in the obligations of information to the customer. Therefore, for us to vote in favour of an initiative that protects consumers is nothing new. I remind you that it was the PSOE that voted against the Guindos decrees mentioned earlier, that forced the bank to increase the provisions by more than 86 billion euros and that protected citizens from scams like that of the preferents. That is why, unlike what the Socialist Party has done on countless occasions when the PP was in government and what its loyal government partners are doing now, we are going to put the interests of the Spaniards before the partisan interests and vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u23	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 71.3, in the words of Mrs Palmer, who has called Oriol Junqueras a criminal, I ask you to withdraw him because I believe he was referring to some fellow party member of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u24	Mrs. Palmer.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u25	The truth is, I meant alleged delinquent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u26	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2018, OF 5 OCTOBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR ENERGY TRANSITION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION. [[File number 130/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u27	We continue with the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018, of 5 October, of urgent measures for the energy transition and the protection of consumers. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister for the Ecological Transition has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of electricity prices and their impact on citizens, especially on the most vulnerable population, is an issue that concerns us all, and also, of course, this government, which has included in its priorities for action an adequate response to this problem. [[The Lord]] We are convinced that energy is an essential asset for society, it represents a major input into the productive processes and the well-being of households and families. It is an essential good to meet basic needs such as lighting, feeding or air conditioning that allows you to maintain sufficient comfort conditions for your health. But the energy system needs a transition process in which decarbonisation, decentralization of generation, electrification of the economy, digitisation, more active consumer participation and more sustainable use of resources will mark the lines of action for the coming years. We need stable, reasonable and predictable prices, and for this we need to build a 100 per cent renewable and efficient model, and achieving it is not something that can be done from day to day, but it needs to push for measures since they facilitate the transition without forgetting those who can have it more complicated at the change stage. It requires us to generate confidence and provide reasonable profitability to investors while avoiding overpayment, which unnecessarily increases the transition and forces us to think dynamically in the short, medium and long term. Promoting the energy transition and facilitating its viability requires acting with short-term and structural measures. In the latter context, that of the structural measures, we have begun work on the reform of the functioning of the electricity market, the regulation of storage, evaluation and, where appropriate, the modernisation of the tax system, but, in the meantime, urgent measures must already be taken to provide protection for the most vulnerable groups and at the same time to introduce signs of the model to which we must move forward. This is the purpose for which the Government adopted on 5 October the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018, on urgent measures for the energy transition and the protection of consumers, whose validation I ask this House today. Ladies and gentlemen, given high and sustained expectations of electricity prices, it is important to facilitate relief in the domestic bill, to strengthen consumer protection, to extend the social bonus and solidarity with the most vulnerable. Furthermore, with the measures contained in this royal decree-law we aim to accelerate the energy transition to a decarbonized economy through greater and better integration of renewable energies into the system, the promotion of sustainable mobility and energy efficiency. To this end, the Royal Decree-Law includes various measures that can be summarized around five large blocks. The first is dedicated to energy poverty and vulnerable consumers, our number one priority, responding urgently to the needs of the most vulnerable and consolidating the fight against energy poverty. To deal with this problem, we consider the electric social bonus to be insufficient so far in force. Energy poverty affects more than 4.6 million citizens and the assumptions in which they could benefit from this social bonus did not cover the needs of particularly vulnerable groups by generating bleeding situations. For this reason, the Royal Decree-Law reformes the social electricity bonus by extending its coverage to include single-parent families with children under the age of sixteen and families with any of their dependent members in Grades II and III. In addition, the annual energy limit with a social bonus discount is increased by 15% and a social bond is created for thermal uses with the intention of covering heating needs at least partially, from which the same persons who are beneficiaries of the electric social bond can benefit. Additional limitations are included, such as the prohibition of winter supply cuts in households receiving the social bonus where at least one person under the age of sixteen lives and for households where at least one person in dependency status with grade II or III resides. On the basis of these measures designed in a short time frame for the six months of winter, the Government undertakes in the same text to present, within that period, a national strategy against energy poverty that will enable the phenomenon to be addressed from an integral perspective, a strategy that must set objectives in the medium and long term and a stable framework for action for the eradication of poverty in which the income criteria, which the current model does not adequately envisage, will have priority in the sharing of this solidarity contribution of Spanish society towards the most disadvantaged groups. The second large block includes measures to ensure greater protection for the electric consumer. It is intended to empower consumers by ensuring better information on their invoices and strengthening consumer protection through measures and sanctions that address abusive practices by traders that may weaken the consumer's position. Thus, the procurement of electricity and gas in the form known as door-to-door is prohibited, consumers are obliged to be informed of the existence of access tolls with hourly discrimination, it is ensured that all market operators do so in compliance with their obligations and it is possible to hire fractions of 0.1 kilowatts. In order to facilitate the understanding of the light bill, we introduce the requirement to reflect in the same some issues that facilitate the consumer's decision-making process, such as, for example, what the effect of having one or another rate is, what the use of electricity at one time or another of the day is, or what implications any other measure may have in terms of hourly discrimination and efficiency. In addition, we eliminated the obligation to hire a term of power far above what is the usual consumption in an average household in Spain, which did not encourage savings or efficiency and which makes us pay, from entry, more than in many households is necessary and consumed. The third block includes self-consumption measures, which respond to a strong social demand that required us to overcome the absurd obstacles provided for in the current legislation, which have largely been echoed by those initiatives which, in line with this request, have been approved mostly by this House by encouraging self-consumption through the modification of the existing regime. Therefore, the Government, together with the removal of the so-called sun tax, introduces three fundamental principles that will govern this activity: recognition of the right to self-consumption of electrical energy without charge, self-consumption shared by one or more consumers to take advantage of economies of scale and the principle of administrative and technical simplification, especially for small power installations. Nothing unknown, as I say, by this House, which, mostly and overwhelmingly, urged the previous Government to take action in this same direction. We believe that one of the measures that can most contribute to the modernization of our electrical system is to accept with complete naturality that there are producers and consumers in much more number and variety than has been the participation and operation of our electrical system so far. As a key and significant data that symbolizes the great delay that Spain carries in this matter, let us think that a country as rich in sun as it is our account with little more than a thousand installations, compared to the more than a million with which Germany counts, for all known with great solar radiation. The fourth block of measures that incorporates this royal decree-law is the one concerning the promotion of electricity generation from renewable sources and the removal of some administrative obstacles that exist today and prevent the deployment of electric mobility. Specifically, an exceptional and one-time extension is granted for access and connection permits granted prior to Law 24/2013 and measures are taken to avoid speculation and ensure the completion of projects with already granted access rights to the network; the planning of the transport network is made more flexible and the electric recharge activity is liberalized, eliminating the figure of the cargo manager. By 31 December 2018, the auctioned renewable power was due to be available for 2020. Well, only 80 of the 9000 megawatts of renewable power awarded had, as of October 1, all of their technical procedures, and that all of them should have completed, as I say, all of that processing stage before December 31, 2018. On the other hand, we have responded to requests from autonomous communities, investors and experts in the renewable sector and from the National Commission on Markets and Competition itself on the need to take measures to avoid speculation about access and connection permits. That is why we have in some cases increased the requirements for guarantees and guarantees for the application of such permits. According to the available data, speculation with these permits increases the total cost of investment by up to 15 or 20% and significantly delays the start-up of new renewable plants, compromising the energy transition objectives. These anti-speculation measures included in the Royal Decree-Law have been designed under the principle of proportionality, seeking a balance, on the one hand, between achieving the aim pursued of avoiding speculation and, on the other hand, not generating excessive burdens that could be unnecessarily burdensome for smaller promoters. In fact, for small and self-consumption facilities, simplified exemptions and procedures are established, allowing the development of distributed and renewable generation quickly and normally. On the other hand, as I said before, electric mobility needs to facilitate its implementation, it needs to take measures that make it simple, and this explains why we have decided to liberalise the recharge activity and promote the recharge infrastructure, things that will still have to be completed through impulse measures in the coming months. Finally, the fifth block of measures includes references to taxation and the sustainability of the electricity system in the context of what is envisaged by the Royal Decree-Law. The measures described, those aimed at the relief of the invoice that we pay consumers, need a response that can be implemented by the government immediately, but that even with that temporary vocation must do so in a context of balance with respect to the costs of the electricity system. Therefore, when the Royal Decree-Law suspends for six months, coinciding with the colder ones, the 7 per cent value of electricity production tax and the excise duty on hydrocarbons for electricity production, it incorporates an enabling for access to revenues by the auction of greenhouse gas emission allowances that covers, to a large extent, part of this cost. We believe that all of these measures will have an impact on the average household consumption, on household consumption, of around 4% of the bill, fluctuating depending on how many and how many measures each household consumer can take. I reiterate that this is only a measure of relief; it is a temporary measure and a measure of relief. In the meantime, we are working on structural measures, in the sense that I referred to the start of the intervention. Finally, this decree-law incorporates a change in the regulation of access tolls, in line with the provisions of additional provision 79 of the current Law on General Budgets of the State, approved by your lords last July; all of which knowing that, according to the Community pronouncements on the organization and operation of the electricity and gas markets, these powers will cease to be an attribution of the Government to be that of the regulator, of the CNMC, with whom we are about to conclude an agreement in this regard; agreement that we will refer to this House for its handling as an amendment of the Law on the Electrical Sector. All this, as you can well imagine, is of great institutional and economic importance, since, as you know, the cost of energy is key for domestic consumers and for the competitiveness of the industrial fabric, so there must be no comparative aggravation. Ladies and gentlemen, all the measures committed to this royal decree-law help to draw the new energy system that this government is planning, and in which we are working from the beginning of our mandate. It will enable us to bet on modernising our economy by making it more competitive, modernising it, improving security of supply, reducing dependence on the outside, encouraging innovation and, all this, with a clear positive impact on the price of electricity and employment. The reform announced will be complemented by strategies of great social impact in which we are working as a priority, the aforementioned national strategy against energy poverty and the just transition strategy, which will accompany the process of transformation of those sectors particularly affected by the energy transition. But, as I said at the beginning, until all this was fully operational, it was imperative to urgently address consumer protection, and send out the right signals to initiate the change of direction of our system. Therefore, I ask the House to validate the Royal Decree-Law, in accordance with article 86 of the Constitution, trusting that the parliamentary groups will support it in view of the significance of the actions it understands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in general we consider this royal decree to be positive, but we believe that there are some aspects that can be improved. The significant increase in the cost of endorsements, for example, is one of the things that should improve, although the positive version is that the risk of speculation is reduced, everything has to be said. There is no explicit mention of self-consumption linked to the water cycle and desalination, although the repeal of the points of Royal Decree 900/2015 that limited renewable power would give protection to the self-consumptions of desalination machines that were being developed in the Canary Islands, which would give coverage to what we know by canary self-consumptions. We are in favour of it being treated as a bill because in the period of amendments we would like to include the explicit mention of the self-consumption associated with the water cycle and also the inclusion, Madam Minister, of the specificities of the Canary Islands that are contained in the new REF - which, as you and the Government know, is finally approved and published at the end of the month - such as, for example, the suspension of the tax in the Canary Islands for an indefinite period; also all the special conditions as a outermost region and with a different tax system with regard to the exception in the hydrocarbon tax, because, as you know, the conditions of the Canary Islands are different. For all this - I don't have any more time, I have only a minute and a half and I would have liked to appreciate positively the electrical issue or the issue of self-consumption of communities, but I don't have time -, I want to say that we are going to support it, that we consider it positive, that we want it to be treated as a bill and that all the specificities of the Canary Islands, the water cycle, the definitive conditions of the sun tax, the exemption, and above all the conditions of the outermost region and the tax system other than the Canary Islands are included in that bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister for the Ecological Transition. The Government is accumulating a national record of speed in defaults and damages to Asturias with its decisions, which I briefly summarize. Sustrae for the second time - the first time was perpetuated by Mr Zapatero with the station at the bottom of Leon's sack - an AVE almost finished like that enjoyed by millions of Spaniards. Its anti-diesel demagogy already translates into cutbacks of productions and jobs in Arcelor. You pay tolls of favor to the electricity prices of the Basque industry and give subsidies to the Valencian ports. Unlike in Germany, this government is going to close coal mines and thermal power stations to dress in green, although the price of light to the Spaniards continues to increase. Go on and on. I'm sorry, stay and go. Yesterday, Alcoa's closure, seven hundred unemployed workers. Today, with the drama of thousands of families in the face of the uncertainty of their future, I am not going to recreate myself in legitimate criticism, today is not the day, but let's not forget - Forum never forgot - that Alcoa is the first step of the castle of employment cards in Asturias; let's all think what will be next. You, Minister, met with a State General Budgets Act in which we believe that it is perfectly possible to combat climate change and, at the same time, to maintain industrial activity in a respectful and sustainable manner with the environment, we incorporate broad lines to invest in development, research and innovation and to reduce CO2 emissions. We also provide public accounts with support so that industries and companies can support their competitiveness while waiting to harmonise their energy costs with those of their European competitors. His ministry has despised and wasted these important budget endowments and tools, and with this royal decree-law, which naturally rejects plan, the government of Pedro Sánchez issues the death certificate to vital and crucial economic sectors for the future of Asturias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, it is true that energy, as the explanatory statement says, is an essential good for society, no doubt a necessary good whose enjoyment, use, management, efficiency and exploitation has a huge impact on the Spanish cost-of-living bill and a key importance in our economy. That is why it should be mandatory to reach a great political pact that, once again, as we have done before, we demand. We all assume that we are in a position to move towards a model of generation and consumption that is more efficient and environmentally friendly, but I insist that we must do so with a pact, intelligently, so that we do not make new mistakes - the same as in the past - or generate higher tensions in themselves on a subject that has them. In Navarre, however, we made a commitment to renewable energies as a community, which has been a sustained community strategy over time and has made us pioneers in development, innovation and industrialization. That's why we're going to keep defending him. I cannot go into the content, consumer protection measures, the more determined regulation of self-consumption or measures on the energy transition, which we value positively, but which we believe are not enough. In fact, we fail to have definitively corrected an unjust measure, contained in Royal Decree-Law 9/2013, which generated a deep discomfort among photovoltaic energy producers, which in many cases was clearly detrimental and which has caused a judicialization that has skipped our borders, and which the State should resolve before the convictions against it accumulate. We would like it to be treated as a bill, and that will be the time not only to extend the regulation of Article 16 to the whole of Spain, but also to present an amendment, which we will put forward, to put forward a proposal to definitively settle with a reasonable formula the claims of those producers of photovoltaic energy who were pioneers, and who paid not only the learning curve of the introduction of a technology, in this case photovoltaic, in Spain at a high price, but also at the time as I say to you an unfair decision of the Administration. In any case, our vote today will be in favour, but in the future we will condition it to that acceptance of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u36	Thank you, President. Minister, improving the electrical social bonus, creating the thermal bonus, eliminating the sun tax, prohibiting the cutting of the supply to the consumer at risk of exclusion, opening the door to shared self-consumption, all of these are reasons that justify the urgency, the necessity of the decree-law that brings us, and that already advance you that Compromís will support with your vote. But we must analyse the ultimate causes of energy poverty, which, as you know, has become a major problem for our society, and among those causes are basically that we have a cheating system, which has scorned renewable energies, which has not relied on efficiency, and in which it is the decisions of the regulator that increase electricity. All this doesn't have to be paid for by the energy user. The current bill for light is expensive and opaque, and we have to give a definitive solution to this so that we do not find ourselves in a welfare mechanism, such as the social bonus, which today is absolutely essential, but which we have to work to overcome, because it stigmatizes families and imposes a heavy burden of management on the social services of the municipalities, which in practice have become customer service services of the big energy companies. We think that we should go further and consider a cheap and easy-to-understand invoice, which is expressed simply by a price per kilowatt hour, making a genuinely social tariff that has a first vital, economic, VAT-free or super-reduced rate, with a limitation of business profit, and then three or four highly progressive higher tranches in which it is already paid for energy waste or for energy consumption; it is also necessary to remove the fixed ones from the invoice, that payment simply by contracted power that does not exist in many European countries, and that serves only for the electric oligopoly to have great benefits even if there is no consumption. We have also asked, like other groups, that this decree-law be treated as a bill by the urgency procedure because we want to introduce a series of amendments that abound in the line I have outlined. In conclusion, Minister, we began to go well with this decree-law, but as you know it has been wasted a lot of time with previous governments, and now we must accelerate the transformations because this country cannot wait any longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, we share much of the content of the royal decree. Some of the issues contained in it were part of initiatives that we have advocated since the Democratic Party: issues of self-consumption, liberalisation of the charging of electric vehicles, some improvements in the social bonus, the creation of the thermal bonus and some of the tax improvements that arise. The minister will agree with me in any event that this has been a clearly insufficient reform, that we are still awaiting a thorough reform of environmental taxation in the energy sector, and a thorough reform so that the energy market will gain in competition. As long as this parliamentary term can last, that debate remains to be addressed. We have uncertainty as to whether some of the tax cuts introduced into this regulation will finally reach the consumer; that worries us, but in any case we will see how the issue evolves. The minister shares - she has said it in her speech and I value it - that it is evident that in this royal decree there is a provision in article 16 that consolidates the reform of the tariff structure of tolls in access to electricity networks, which in 2014 was approved by the previous government, and that has worried and worried the Catalan industry. Pimec, Cecot - our employers - have denounced this discrimination in the field of energy: it increases in comparative terms the energy costs of the Catalan industry. Pimec and Cecot estimate that this negatively affects our industry and more than 3200 companies by EUR 300 million, and the Minister knows that she is subject to a sanctioning dossier from the European Commission. The competence of fixing tolls should be returned to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, and as you said, there should be no comparative aggravation between the different territories of the State. I hope that this commitment that the Minister has expressed to amend the Electricity Act to return this competence to the CNMC will take place before the end of the year, in the process of this royal decree or in any other legislative process. In addition - and I conclude with that, Mr President - we must use the processing of this royal decree as a bill to introduce measures to improve the capacity of our industry's competition, especially in the area of cogeneration. Energy efficiency is a fundamental strategy in terms of the competitiveness of industry, at least in Catalonia, but it is certain that it is also from all over the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u40	Thank you, President. The Government presents today the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018, urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection. This group will vote in favour of its validation because there are measures with which we agree, because it covers issues that have been addressed by most of the political groups represented in Congress, and because it includes compliance with the agreement reached in the 2018 draft General State Budgets on specific electrical tolls for voltages equal to or greater than 30 kilovolts. In this regard, and before discussing those aspects or matters regulated in the above-mentioned decree, I would like to reply to Mr Campuzano regarding his reference to the above-mentioned tariffs. The tariff that is regulated is not exclusively for the Basque Country, there are other communities that also affect them, and responds to an infrastructure problem. Currently, according to the CNMC reference model, there are five voltage levels in Spain, corresponding to low voltage level 0 and NT4 level to the primary transport network. According to the methodology established for the calculation of electrical tolls, users at each level pay for the cost of the distribution network and for the part that corresponds to the use of the higher levels that the energy has to travel until reaching the connection network of the user himself. The problem is that when defining this network system it was not taken into account in the Basque Country or in other autonomous communities that the network of 30 kilowatts NT 1 connects directly to the NT 4 level of transport, because there is neither the NT 2 level nor the NT 3, non-existent networks for which it was and is being paid, and there is no other reason for discrimination. Users in areas where there is only a 30 kilovolt network, since they are directly connected to the NT4 transport network, should not bear the costs of the electricity distribution network steps, which simply do not exist, which is to be corrected today by this decree. However, users connected to the network of 25, voltage level NT 1, pay according to the same methodology for the use of higher levels than the energy has to travel until they reach their connection network; NT 2 and NT 3 networks therefore which they have and to which they can connect. Here is also the difference between 25 and 30, so we cannot talk about discrimination against each other. Furthermore, Mr Campuzano has told us that this is being appealed to the European Union, and it must be said that it is not State aid, because neither was it with the previous measure by which tariff 6.1 was broken down into 6.1A and 6.1B, and because it does not meet any of the requirements for State aid. The CNMC itself has also included an amendment to the Royal Decree on Access and Connection to Transport and Distribution Networks so that the Government - the Ministry - values the elimination of tariff 6.1B and its inclusion in 6.2, which was already reflected in the additional seventieth provision of the 2018 State General Budgets. We, Mr Campuzano, do not advocate approaches to ask for the removal of others, and I would like to understand that your group does not want to do so either. We believe that it is not necessary to attack the rights of others to defend themselves. We have been clear: we stand up for the interests of Euskadi, the Basque agenda, and I remind him that this group put five votes on the table for this, with all that we could risk politically. That is why, and from the respect of your group, I would like to ask or advise you to change your strategy in this case and defend your Catalan agenda and your industry, but without running over or violating others on that path. We wouldn't have done it. [[Rumors]] We always see what others achieve as an opportunity that most of the time is created and built, and it is that the fact that some get something beneficial for their community can pave the way for others in the future. Having said that, I would like to mention that the draft provides for an amalgamation of provisions of different regulatory rank, framed in the field of energy, some of which are novel from the point of view of operative innovation, and others propose amendments to existing rules. On the other hand, many of the contents contained in the draft Royal Decree-Law include matters relating mainly to social assistance, which is the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community. Already from the title of this precept the unitary character of the planning initiative that is contemplated in it is visualized. This character has been accentuated in the text of the article itself, in which the essential lines of this strategy appear to be fixed in an inconcrete way, in whose definition or design the autonomous intervention is limited to a mere participation of which its scope is unknown. New cases are introduced where the suspension of supply is not appropriate, and regardless of the positive assessment that it may merit from the political opportunity, and even more so from the attention to the basic needs of the most vulnerable population, the requirements set for their determination as I have said are inserted in the area of social assistance. Therefore, the participation or involvement of the Autonomous Communities in the selection of these criteria would have been at least necessary for the choice of such criteria. With regard to the thermal social bonus, we also believe that social assistance is regulated. It looks at the assistance competence of the Autonomous Communities and, in the terms it is formulated, it is somewhat inconcrete as to its purpose. On the other hand, the figure of the cargo manager is eliminated, and this group is critical with this measure because the Basque Government, through the EVE, has made an important effort to impose a model of recharge infrastructure management. Any consumer is given the possibility to provide charging services for electric vehicles free of charge or for a fee, which opens up the possibility that this activity may be carried out even by individuals, and may raise problems of tax settlement or non-compliance with tax obligations if not properly regulated. When it is indicated that the requirements to be met by consumers to provide the service will be established by regulation by the Government, the actual scope of this change is unknown. From our point of view the charging of the electric vehicle should be analysed at macro level, trying to define tools so that in the future, when it is present massively, not only does not constitute a problem for the system because of its simultaneousity and long duration, but can be used as an opportunity to achieve a better integration of renewable energy. This will only be achieved - we understand - if this very widespread delivery of electricity is controlled in an aggregate way, and for that the figure of the cargo manager for us made all sense. In addition, the charging activity of electric vehicles is currently a liberalised activity, and more and more companies are demonstrating their interest in investing. If the activity is also provided by distributors in a regulated context, competition is at best unequal and unfair. If regulated activity distributors can hold recharging infrastructure, it is necessary for that recharging activity to become a regulated activity, and to see what involvement or cost this may have. With regard to self-consumption, the negative effects of previous legislation are reflected, and this figure is also recognized to encourage the development of solar photovoltaic energy, a royal decree which, among other things, establishes self-consumption modalities by removing regulatory barriers. It also includes everything relating to that non-legislative proposal that we adopt here by the different political groups. Access and connection permits are extended to allow the entry into operation of the 9000 megawatts of allocated power. Finally, we need to talk about measures to lower the price of light, which, while we understand to be important, will have to go further and look for definitive solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u42	Good morning; good morning. This royal decree comes here today motivated by the extreme need to make changes in the energy market, changes that long ago would have had to have occurred and that generate the expectation that the guest gallery shows more than this House. We really appreciate all the people who want to attend this debate today and understand what they want to demonstrate. From Esquerra Republicana we have had time and many initiatives presented with the aim of democratizing energy, reducing its price, both for businesses and consumer families, and making it cleaner and more sustainable. The current regulatory framework made it impossible for us to move forward on this path, but today it seems that we are taking a step towards that goal, although what we really needed was to make a leap. I'm sorry to disappoint the minister, today I don't come with musical similes, even though I spent the night looking for them. Today, Minister, we give you our yes, a critical yes, which values all those advances, but which does not lose sight of all that remains to be achieved, all that remains to be done. What we are presenting here today are well-intentioned patches, urgent measures - we believe - to tackle a problem that is unsustainable and that is shameful, such as the price of light and its terrible consequences for society, especially for the most vulnerable consumers. You present a series of tax measures to contain the price of electricity, such as the reduction of the type of production of temporary electricity or the disappearance of the green cent, although we must not make it obvious that it cannot be ensured that the real effect of the reduction of these taxes is transferred to the consumer, and in that we would have to be very careful in the coming months to see how it translates. Let's start with the nice part. We applaud measures such as the removal of barriers to self-consumption, the limitation of the figure of the cargo operator entailing the liberalization of activity or the commitment to favour collateral contracts. It also envisages measures for the protection of vulnerable consumers. We welcome the extension of the conditions of access for the social bonus; the incorporation, of course, and we understand that it could not otherwise be a thermal social bonus that must be implemented with the utmost respect for the relevant autonomous competences. We believe that this would be the best time for you to therefore amend the spoils of the PP as well, ordering the withdrawal of resources to the TC from Catalan laws of energy poverty and climate change. Returning to the royal decree, minister, we stand at the door of many other great issues that do not seem to us to be minor. The big issue is the increase in the price of electricity, and while the proposal contains measures aimed at solving a problem from the purely economic-fiscal point of view, we insist that the problem goes beyond, and is favored by a lack of competition in the electricity sector and by the non-separation of activities. Nor do we see the question of batteries developing, not even in the self-consumption section, but the door is opened to the net balance. We are also doing less to protect consumers and their right to access data, something that is not baladí, and perhaps a greater stake in renewable energy, because it does not tell us about promoting small and medium-sized plants or quotas per territory, thus perpetuating the great model of the delocalized plant, and therefore the costs and losses of transport are borne by the consumer. As you will know, access to electricity is not the same for everyone. That is why we denounce the discriminatory territorial treatment of Catalan companies. Congratulations on the vascas qui sui iuris aget nemo laedit, Your Honor. But due to a structure of tolls of access to unfair electricity networks must bear costs, with the consequent impact on the competitiveness of these companies. The change in the high voltage tariff that converts 6.1Bs into 6.2 means a cost of 300 million euros long to the 3277 Catalan companies that are connected to 25 kilovolts, and without any technical criteria to support it. Please tell us how you are going to fix this stalemate for the good of all; how you are going to answer Pimec's just demands or the letter that you should already know that Antonio Abad, president of the Cecoc, has directed you, and that is summed up in one sentence: the 24 kilovolts networks, used since the beginning of the 20th century in Catalonia, that is to say, most likely depreciated several times, are penalized with more than 40% regarding the 30 and 36 kilovolts networks. For this reason, and although it does not seem so, we will vote in favour of its processing as a draft law in order to be able to table amendments that reflect the effects of this distorting measure, and of all those we believe and have listed as insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u43	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u44	Comrades, President. I would first like to remind you that, at the Minister's first appearance in the Commission, when the appearance ended, I came to say to her: Thank you for coming to appear, Minister, and she said to me: I hope we have fair play in this legislature. That's what he told me. In front of the call to talk about this royal decree the truth is that I must manifest my naivety because everything he told me sounded good to me. In the Commission we usually talked about music and the melody sounded tuned, it sounded spectacular. In fact there was no dissonant note, but then, when we see the transposition of the royal decree, we see that it has little to do with that call. In the call or in the conversations with the ministry there has been talk of self-consumption, there has been talk of social bonus, there has been talk of renewable energies, there has been talk of taxation, and that music sounds very good. Look, what we didn't talk about - and that's what's starting to definate a little bit to that melody - was the rise in the bonds for renewable energies, the reactive energy toll from the distributors, and what we didn't talk about in any way in that conversation was the Basque electric coupon, that's what we didn't talk about. Let's start talking about the tuned part of the melody, this song we're debating today. The social bonus; we fully agree with its enlargement. I would also like to remind you that when negotiations were held between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and us the social bonus this party and this person requested the inclusion of the social gas bonus, for which I had the negative on the part of the two parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, because they said that it was not the reason for that negotiation, that we were only talking about the electric social bonus. So in that case and in what the royal decree on the social bonus provides, we can only agree. With regard to sustainable mobility Citizens have presented an innumerable number of initiatives to strengthen and promote sustainable mobility, especially when we are seeing the pollution problems we are having in cities, and if you analyze the carbon footprint of cities and facilities you will see that carpool is the predominant factor. We're talking about self-consumption and we totally agree. Basically the text that contains the royal decree registered it Citizens in August 2016, so of course we agree, although we also have to make one thing clear, what will be done now with the self-consumption is fine, but the goal is to redesign the bill of light, because if our variable part was only variable, the so-called sun tax would never have existed. Now let's talk about the part of the melody where we start having weird notes, it still sounds good, but there are beginning to be notes that make us think something is happening. Measures to promote the implementation of renewable energy sources. Totally agree, except at the point where the endorsement required for the facilities is multiplied by four. That is, we went from EUR 10/megawatt to EUR 40/megawatt; it multiplied by four. This means that all small investors or most of them can stay out. Some here are talking about democratizing energy generation, but if we multiply the bonds by four, tell me who will be able to access these contests, auctions or facilities. Let's go to the tax office. In the part that sounds good to us is freezing the generation tax, which must also be made clear that what is going to involve the freezing of the generation tax is less than what the electric bill is going to raise this month. Then, not even eaten for what served, will continue to raise the bill. But on Tuesday we discussed an initiative presented by this group that called for an audit with the CNMC of the energy bill. We also called for a change in the tax base for certain taxes, such as electricity taxes and the redesign of the bill. This initiative was voted against by almost the whole of the House, that is, when we talk about wanting to lower the bill of light and we are going to touch the taxation, we start to sound good, but when we have to go to the bottom of the issue and debate more in depth, up there, no one wants to touch the taxation whether it is touching a tax that is serving to finance the autonomous communities, and that where it should be is not in the bill of light, but in the reform of autonomous financing. But they don't have time. [[Applauds]] Rare music also sounds like the exemption from the oil tax for electricity generation, which we think is fine, except that then in budgets they introduce a brutal rise to diesel for all small consumers. So, what's this about? On the one hand we're saying we're very green and on the other hand suffocating the working middle class? The truth is, we don't understand. Now let's go to the part that's already strident, minister, and let's see if it's strident, that's not even in the explanatory statement of the royal decree. I don't want to think he forgot or didn't want me to be on the show. Reactive energy toll from distributors. What does this mean? Because sometimes we put ourselves on technical terms. That distribution companies be given invoices that should be provided to the system's revenues. That's what it means. But let's go to the top, and it's that using the self-consumption and the social bonus to plug us into the Basque electric coupon seems to us to be an absolute shame because right now the Basque industry is going to be very happy, but the rest of the Spanish industry will be turning their heads. What do you want me to tell them? If we talk about industry, if we go up here to defend R+D+i, to say that we have to work for the future, that Spain has an industrial potential, that we have to invest in R+D+i because it will generate employment and then we do this and through the back door, it is difficult to explain. You tell me the urgency of this. The decree-law is for urgent things like the social bonus, but we believe that in the end this royal decree-law has become a check to pay support to its partners, that I do not say that it seems bad or that it is not lawful, it just seems a little embarrassing to me. Adding these two discriminatory measures to the Basque electric coupon, the state will lose EUR 120 million a year. We believe that there is a bad legislative practice that includes things that are not urgent. As I said, this royal decree-law is a check. If we could vote in two parts, Minister, we would vote for a strong yes to self-consumption, the social bonus, the promotion of renewable energies and to reduce the taxation of the bill for light. That's what we'd vote for a strong yes. But we cannot vote for a strong yes to the Basque electric coupon, nor can we vote for only a few people to access these renewable energy auctions in the end. Everything isn't worth it. We understand that the quotas or prebendas they have with the parties that have given them support are high, but they do not turn a real decree into a cheque to pay for the support they had to have by force to reach power. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, good morning, minister. The energy system and the lack of energy planning have become a problem for Spanish society. We have an anti-social system that is a problem for businesses and that is ecologically unsustainable. And it is because, along with transport, it is one of the main generators of greenhouse gas growth. The urgency of the energy transition was measured by the latest United Nations report on climate change. We only have twelve years to prevent catastrophic climate change. The scientific world requires rapid, profound and unprecedented changes. It would be irresponsible not to listen to them. [[The lady]] He said it's an antisocial system because we have one of the most expensive electricity bills in Europe. Millions of people live trapped in the triangle of low wages and precarious jobs, expensive and very low energy efficiency housing and a high bill for light, from which neither vulnerable families get rid because the policy against energy poverty agreed by the PP, PSOE and Citizens has failed dramatically; it only covers just over 700,000 people out of the 460,000 people who were protected by the previous social bonus. In Spain there are more than 500,000 people, 11% of households, who cannot maintain an adequate temperature in their homes, and it is a system that seriously harms businesses. Yesterday we knew that Alcoa intends to close its production centers in Avilés and A Coruña, with the threat of dismissal of almost 1500 workers between direct and indirect jobs, to which we want to express our full solidarity and support. [[Applauds]] Among other problems, such as the lack of investment to ensure competitiveness, this company concentrates two of the most serious problems we have as a country: the lack of industrial policy and the price of energy, 70% of its production costs and, to put it mildly, a model of unconditional public aid to companies, without compensation, which needs to be changed. For the social and economic impact of energy it is necessary to take urgent and effective measures already, measures that we miss in this royal decree-law. Speaking of industrial policy, this royal decree incorporates a measure resulting from political negotiation: the elimination of tariff 6.1 B. This decision benefits 1250 companies. Look, we prefer to talk about companies and workers, not territories. And it must also be said that it leaves more than 4,500 companies that are paying extra costs for being poorly framed at a competitive disadvantage. Here we too prefer to talk about companies and workers, not territories. It cannot be that electricity tariffs are set according to terms or the result of pacts, in which governments of both the PSOE and the PP fell. A coherent energy and industrial policy, not partial but comprehensive solutions, is needed to avoid any kind of aggravation. This royal decree-law is a small step in energy poverty, a patch to lower prices and a great advance in self-consumption, but it is a very incomplete advance because it does not address the fundamental problem, which is the great power on the market that large companies that maintain privileged situations have, issues that are addressed in the budget agreement signed by our group and the Government, where structural solutions are proposed to solve the problem of electricity prices, protect vulnerable people and advance the energy transition. He said that it is a small step in energy poverty, because what is the point of wealthy families, because they are numerous, to be able to apply discounts on the social bonus, when the fundamental criterion would have to be that of the income of the family unit? Why do oligopoly marketers continue to have the privilege of managing the social bonus and cannot grant it, for example, municipal marketers or cooperatives? Why don't companies assume the full cost of the social bonus? Why do we have to pay the thermal social bonus from the General Budgets? Why does the precautionary principle not apply at once: no light cuts without authorization from social services to all, all vulnerable people? Why can't Spain do as Portugal, where the social bond is accessed automatically and independently of the company with which the energy is contracted? The Government has committed itself with our group to a structural reform of the social bonus to resolve these issues. The royal decree-law is a patch to reduce the price of electricity. Electricity is expensive in Spain because of the huge dependence we have on fossil fuels and the still low penetration of renewables and because of a poor market design resulting from wrong policy and regulatory decisions that benefit large companies. We have the market for miracles, nuclear power plants and hydropower which are overly amortized in an earlier regulatory framework that are remunerated at the price of the most expensive energy that enters the market; they are the so-called fallen profits of the sky, we pay sardines at caviar price. That is why the budget agreement states that the necessary measures will be taken, such as setting a ceiling on the energy produced by hydraulics and nuclear power, to put an end to these unjust and unjustified benefits which are at the root of the problem. In conclusion, the royal decree-law is a great advance with the removal of barriers to self-consumption. We finally ended with the shame of the sun's tax. [[Applauds]] Finally, the right of citizens to produce their own energy is recognized. The previous government presented self-consumption as an eccentricity of the rich that would bring endless misfortunes to the energy system. This government had an anachronistic policy, with all kinds of obstacles to the development of self-consumption and also anti-European. The new rules of the European Union illegalise sun tax, indiscriminate charges to self-consumption and guarantee the right to have the surplus of energy poured into the network fairly remunerated. That part of the royal decree-law is also ours, as well as the other parliamentary groups that supported the proposal of a law to promote self-consumption, which was an initiative of civil society; of a civil society that has the merit of today's repeal of the sun tax; of organizations of environmentalists, trade unions, businesses, municipalities, which have worked tirelessly for the right of citizens to produce energy. Because it is not just a question of changing technologies, but of changing models, of moving from a centralized model, controlled by oligopoly, to a distributed, decentralized, democratic model, with the participation of small businesses, cooperatives, citizens and municipalities that, like Barcelona, have already disconnected from oligopoly by creating their own marketer. That is why the momentum given in the royal decree-law to shared self-consumption, that local communities can generate and consume their own energy, is fundamental. Finally, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law, because despite being just a step, the great journeys always start with a small step. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u48	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, a new stage for energy policy in Spain is beginning today. The royal decree-law presented by Minister Ribera is part of a clear strategy to change the situation of immobility and even of the prevailing regression until June 2018. In just four months, many things have changed for the energy sector, this strategic sector. While it is true that it is a decree of urgent measures, that is, of palliative and short-term measures, it is no less true that they point towards a very concrete model of energy policy that will be reflected, as the Minister has already announced, in the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and in the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, although it is difficult to understand for the coalition of the inaction of the People's Party and citizens, it is possible to work at the same time in the short, medium and long term, and that is what this Government has been doing since it started to walk. And that is that it is the mission of an executive, to give solutions to the problems that exist, or at least to try, instead of describing and radiating reality as if it were immobile, which is the attitude to which we have been accustomed. This royal decree is full of immediate actions, but also of signs of the future. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has understood what the keys are and is working towards a more sustainable, supportive and just economic and social model. The Royal Decree-Law sets out a number of priorities on the agenda: reducing electricity costs, protecting vulnerable consumers, boosting self-consumption and the electric vehicle, and facilitating the achievement of renewable energy targets. It is true that to moderate electricity prices requires deeper reforms, we have all agreed this morning on that reflection, but the measures reflected in this royal decree-law will be able to reduce the electricity bill by 3% to 20%, figures that are not negligible in a context of price volatility subject to exogenous causes. In this context, there were two options: to continue looking for excuses not to act, to blame the timing of the moment and to wash your hands or to analyse in depth what elements could be acted on and to make decisions to act on them, and that is what this Government has done, once again in the face of passivity. [[The lady]] On the other hand, and given the record of social inequality and child poverty left by the Government of the People's Party, the Socialist Government is making an integral effort to narrow the huge gap we receive as an inheritance, and addressing it in an integral way means that all sectoral policies can contribute to the fight against inequality, including energy policy. The electric social bonus extended to groups that had left out and the new thermal social bonus are an example of real protection for weaker consumers. On the other hand, this royal decree-law ends with the incomprehensible brake on self-consumption. No one can understand the commitment of the Government of the Spanish People's Party - because the European People's Party has understood it and voted in favour of it in Europe - to prevent the development of self-consumption in Spain, this closure to understand that technological changes change society, change the economy. We cannot resist these changes, especially when they improve people's lives. It is incomprehensible the attitude of the People's Party and it is incomprehensible that its allies, Citizens, despite coming here to take heart for the initiatives they are presenting, have been supporting and blocking over the last few years that the sun tax should be eliminated by the rest of the political groups that we agreed on this. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Lords of Citizens, who have not now listened to all your proposals has been the People's Party, which you voted for and supported in all your decisions. Clarify yourselves, focus and find once and for all the gap you have lost in this House, because right now you have not just found it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, self-consumption means a change, a disruption, if you like, in the current two-way model between producers and consumers. But, as I was telling you, it's a change for the better. It will help to reduce emissions; improve energy efficiency; reduce energy costs; generate business fabric; generate employment; fix people in the territory; and actively put citizens at the centre of the system. I have great doubts that the previous Government has ever quantified the economic value of all these positive externalities. I also have great doubts that at some point the cost of multiple negative externalities has been assessed, that it has been calculated, for example, how much it has cost and will cost this country the legal uncertainty generated by its decisions, by the decisions of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree also unlocks the situation with regard to the proper expansion of the electric vehicle. This type of vehicle cannot be penetrated if there is no adequate charging infrastructure; indeed, it is not the only proposal, but it is essential to start walking and therefore to encourage the purchase of this type of vehicle by citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this government initiative that we are discussing today reflects the general feeling of citizens who want changes; that of the most vulnerable citizens who need to reduce their energy bill costs; that of the business sectors that require certainties to be able to invest; that of consumers who do not want any more abuses; that of local governments and autonomous administrations; that of social organisations and people who are concerned and aware of their collective and individual contribution to the fight against climate change. This royal decree-law is the beginning of a great transformation that the ministry is beginning with all and not against all, as it had been happening, using as instruments dialogue and trust among all the agents involved. I thank all the groups that are going to support this initiative, because together we will be able to make the necessary transformation in the energy model in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u50	Thank you, President. Mrs Lucio, being you here, you applauded Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's energy policy, a 70% increase in bills only between 2007 and 2011. You were here applauding that energy policy. How can you speak of inaction if the one who stabilized the Spanish electricity system was the Government of the People's Party, which has managed to have a surplus in the Spanish electricity system? [[Applauds]] In 2011 the government of the People's Party was found 27 billion euros deficit; 27 billion euros. If we hadn't done anything in 2012 it would be 10,000 more, and so on. We only pay in debt EUR 25 billion a year on the bill; of them, 800 in interest. Mrs Lucio, I think we have said many times that in this matter we should be a little more rigorous because we are talking about the lever of change, transformation and growth of Spanish society, which is energy. So, a little bit more rigour. The People's Party is a party with a vocation to dialogue. We have demonstrated with the establishment of the Committee of Experts on the Development of the Energy and Climate Plan that we all have; we have demonstrated with the social bonus that we have with all groups; with the Climate Change Act, which was heard all over the world. Therefore, this energy reform that the Minister is seeking should also count on us. Because energy policy goes beyond a legislature, it goes beyond a government, it goes beyond a generation and, therefore, if it has a vocation of permanence, it must count on everyone and mainly on the majority political force in this House, which is the People's Party. They should be terrified of deficit. In the actual decree that has brought us today already sets out the first additional provision which envisages an estimated deficit of 900 million euros. But you haven't learned? But you haven't learned? €900 million for 2018 and 2019! Moreover, they generate uncertainty, since this decree is provisional; that is, it is of extraordinary urgency and necessity, we approve it here, but it is for six months. Let's see if by then we know how we're going to reduce the rate. Because, by the way, since we have a new president of the government, the light has risen by 10%, and it's been 100 days, by 10%. Therefore, less uncertainty and more working with those who experience and have demonstrated ability to solve the difficulties that the electrical system has. In addition, we now have the new policy of the announcement effect; the announcement effect of the diesel that affects seventeen million drivers and that has as a side effect that, for example, the largest factory in the Basque Country, Mercedes, will come up from tomorrow stops for 3500 workers; the announcement effect of a possible rate increase that brings with it Alcoa closing two floors, one in Asturias and another in Galicia, for example. And why do I bring this up? Because you know, Minister, that you are one of the responsible for the rise in CO2, which is one of the main causes of the rise in prices, since you are in favour of CO2 being more expensive and therefore more expensive to generate electricity in our country. You're in favour of it. Here's a speed problem, we've talked about it many times. We are in favour of accommodating the transition to the needs of families, to their well-being, and that industries can be accommodated, so as to avoid unemployment. But here we find governments that continue to bet on the ideologization of technologies: left-wing technology, right-wing technology, and that is not an appropriate approach in this case. Look, beyond value judgments, with regard to self-consumption, we believe that the current stability situation of the system allows the entry of new agents, it is true. That solar energy is the future? We fully agree, but we have doubts, as does the National Commission on Markets and Competition, about the volume of self-consumption that we are able to assume or what this is going to mean for those families that do not have economic or physical capacity - in this case the size of their home - capacity for self-consumption and that, therefore, an income transfer can occur between those who can and those who cannot. Therefore, we have doubts in that regard. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the work of the People's Party is called into question one day and another too. That is why we are once again responding in this regard. The auctions of 2016 and mainly those of 2017 introduced into the network - or rather, they will introduce from 2020, if they don't do anything that can prevent it - 9000 megawatts of renewable energy at no cost to the consumer. That is, in 2007 and 2008 a photovoltaic energy was introduced that was still immature at 450 euros megawatt, and this one that is introduced from 2020 is at 32. Therefore, speed is considered to be very relevant. We also see that sometimes they are right, and we are happy there, we welcome, for example, the abolition of 7% of the electricity generation, which we carried in our electoral programme and which we have previously presented as a proposal for a law. What happens is that you do it for six months and we want it to be permanent, as set out in our bill. They also establish the suppression of the green cent but only for gas; that is, there is a gas technology that does deserve the suppression of the green cent and not coal. Therefore, once again, ideologizing technologies and creating reference frameworks in which there are left and right technologies. That only happens in Spain and it's not the People's Party's fault. They also copy us into the electric car. You invented the figure of the cargo manager, it was you who made it difficult to develop it and now come and suppress it, of course, after the People's Party has put forward a bill in that regard. Therefore, when you copy us, it is true that you are correct. [[Applauds]] Since we are very committed to ensuring that sustainable mobility, in this case electric mobility, contributes to reducing emissions and improving air quality in cities - we fully agree with that and that it is also desirable to facilitate the deployment of cargo facilities - we wonder why having the General Budgets of the State in which 66 million euros were approved -50 in their ministry and 16 in the Ministry of Economy - they have not yet made the decision to support the purchase of new vehicles and in addition to providing greater charging centres, because they have that capacity. With regard to the social bonus, nothing to say. We meet with the Socialist Party which is now in agreement with our barems and even raise their own barems. We find it phenomenal, but what I do want to make very clear in this house is that in 2009 the social bonus was introduced and until the People's Party arrived it was not fixed because there was a sentence that left the most disadvantaged without social bonus, until the People's Party changed the legislation. In short, we have many doubts about the development of this text, for example - I am finishing now - with the thermal bonus. We are talking about 25 euros per family and I invite you to reflect: how many months the winter is and 25 euros per family you don't need to continue to explain to them what it means, moreover, in budgets that are not approved, we don't even know how much we don't even know what the methodology is going to be for the distribution of that check. If you want energy not to be a brake and a lever for growth and employment generation - because we are also in transition, it is true, and that is an opportunity, with new industries and new exchanges -, if you are in that idea and it is not rhetorical, you can count on us, but if you face that challenge alone, I can assure you that the chances of failure are very high, as experience shows. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u52	Thank you very much, President. I simply wanted to address your ladies and gentlemen to thank you for the support and understanding of this complex but important and urgent decree-law and to confirm the Government's conviction and willingness to work hard on the structural measures with all of you. It is a subject of crucial importance for Spain, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from an economic, social and industrial point of view. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u54	Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the point concerning the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, in particular on the proposal for an organic law to amend the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June on the General Electoral Regime to guarantee the right of all persons with disabilities to vote. For the presentation of the initiative, at the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, representatives of the third sector, Cermi, the ONCE Foundation, Mental Health, Down Spain, Full Inclusion, representatives of the entire third sector of disability and health, thank you very much and congratulations for this great achievement, this great social achievement, and also to all the Members present here. This legal reform evokes four fundamentals: dignity, fullness, tribute and legacy. Dignity, because we improve as a political and social society, and we give dignity back to people with intellectual disabilities who have not been able to vote and we also give a little dignity back to our poor political status. Full, because seventy years after the Declaration of Human Rights we represent the values of that declaration and today the fullness of Spanish society will be able to vote. And a tribute, because of all the events commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution this, surely this, is the most relevant because all men and women in Spanish society will be able to participate in the feast of democracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u57	That is the best tribute we can pay to this legislative reform. Finally, the legacy. Of this histrionic, to say the least, XII Legislature, which is this, the best legacy possibly is this item on the agenda that we are going to vote on right now. Personally it has been an honor to be a deputy and to have achieved two great social achievements humbly: one, to have, at the initiative of Unido Podemos and Union del Pueblo Navarro, that we managed that the Commission on Integral Disability Policies had legislative rank; two, to have been the first political party to register in this House, on February 17, 2017 - already a year and a half ago - this reform of the Loreg. It therefore congratulates the whole sector and congratulates Spanish society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u59	Egun on. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Today we take an important step in the recognition of the right to vote for all persons with disabilities, but we do not take the final step, we do not do so with all guarantees. The initial text perfectly met the requirements of the United Nations Convention to ensure that no one would be deprived of his or her right to vote and, in any case, persons with disabilities would be given the necessary support to ensure the exercise of that right under adequate conditions. However, the text we adopt today leaves a loophole to a possible limitation, which is also not well known who and how it could exercise. This is done so that the People's Party does not stay out of the picture, a PP that throughout the process has tried to convince the rest that some limitation had to be established. So they tried to convince us that it was not limited at all, but we kept asking ourselves: if that were true, why do we have to adopt a text that creates doubts, that leaves an open door to limitation, if the will is not such? And why don't we adopt a text that leaves no doubt and scrupulously complies with what the convention says? It is argued in a barely non-existent and hypothetical case of people who could vote not consciously, not freely or not voluntarily, risk that if they exist is minimal and is not limited to the disabled, or is the rest certified in some way and we are not manipulable? Why demand from persons with disabilities that which we are not asked of the rest, that we should not even demonstrate when casting the vote if we know how to read or write? How can we end discrimination if we open the door to new discrimination? No one could convince us that we were wrong in the debate and, although doubtless, all the groups, except Euskal Herria Bildu and ERC, voted against the PP amendment, which is what we voted definitively today. Having made these assessments and with serious doubts about it, but convinced that this is much better than continuing to limit a fundamental right to thousands of people, as has been done, we will vote in favour and hope that we will not have to tell anyone in the future that we were right. We hope that the long road will be completed here for the recognition of their rights, the recognition of the right of persons with disabilities. For them and for them we vote yes today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u60	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mr Xuclà i Costa for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of Cermi and so many collectives with shared struggles for the consolidation of fundamental rights. Today we take a very important step, today we take a historic step in the social inclusion of people with intellectual disabilities, mental illnesses and cognitive impairment. Today we have perfected and matured democracy for more than a hundred thousand people. Today we have been carrying out outstanding duties since 2008 when Spain adopted the United Nations Convention for the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; we were obliged to do so, but we are also convinced that the Electoral Law should be reformed in order to enable all citizens to vote. Today we are right in the formula with the contribution of all groups: the right of active suffrage expressed in a conscious, free and voluntary manner whatever the support to communicate it and with the means of support required. This is the proposal. Today we do what the United Kingdom, Sweden, Latvia, Italy, Holland or Croatia - to refer only to countries of the European Union - have already done, which is to face the dignity of the right to vote of all citizens. And I say: if we have been able to build this consensus in respect of the Electoral Law and the consolidation of the right to vote of all citizens, if in this House everyone is convinced that there are no diminished people but people with disabilities, obviously today's vote calls us to other possible consensuss of the future. I do not usually express feelings from the rostrum, but I have to tell you that I am happy today that this Parliament must congratulate itself on the step it has taken and on the consolidation of the rights of all people. Today Parliament has been very sane in favour of inclusion, in favour of the responsibility of all people, and with this sure decision that we will also make a firmer society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u63	Thank you very much, President. We are debating the opinion of the Constitutional Commission approving the amendment of the Loreg, Organic Law 5/1985, so that disabled persons have not impeded their right to active suffrage for the cases contained in article 3, paragraph 1 (b) and (c), i.e. those declared incapable by a final court ruling and those admitted to a psychiatric hospital with judicial authorization, provided that the judge declares their inability to exercise the right to vote. We also agree to the adoption of an additional provision whereby, following the entry into force of the law, judicial decisions which, pursuant to the provisions now repealed, would have limited the exercise of the right to vote to specific persons will be invalidated. A further amendment is also made to the current paragraph 2 of Article 3, which is redrafted, which sets out the principle that everyone may exercise his or her right of active, conscious, free and voluntary suffrage in whatever way he or she communicates it and with whatever means of support it requires. This reform, which we warmly welcome and whose initiative comes from the Madrid Assembly, is thus aimed at better implementing the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its 2006 Protocol, ratified by Spain in 2008, which promote the right of these people to equality in the enjoyment of all human and fundamental rights, including those of full participation in society and, in particular, that of equal suffrage. This reform also responds to the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in its review of Spain in 2011. This reform also addresses Cermi's requests, which are very concerned about discrimination that prevented more than 100,000 people with disabilities from voting in Spain and which has welcomed the important efforts made by the parliamentary groups of the Constitutional Commission in search of consensus in favour of many men and women who were in democratic ostracism and who, through this reform - said Cermi - are carrying out their Ithaca called inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a vulnerable group, a group which, as the European Court of Human Rights points out, has been prejudiced with long-term consequences that have led to their social exclusion. Today, we are on the right track by adopting this organic law proposal, taking an important step and making part of our fellow citizens who have been excluded from the right to political participation in public life to realize this fundamental right and to make their social inclusion possible on an equal footing with the rest of the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing - I think today is a great day that may have come before and that we can all be proud of. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning, congressmen, congressmen. First, from Esquerra Republicana we want to greet and thank the work and the close collaboration of the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the other representatives of the institutions and entities that work, most of them altruistically, day by day to improve the lives of all people. Today is an important day for society as a whole, as we are about to adopt an initiative aimed at extending the rights of a group of almost 100,000 people who have been the victims of exclusion and discrimination by both society itself and the public authorities. This is a long struggle and social claim that has been ignored over the years because of a clear lack of political will on the part of the Spanish parties and the existing prejudices that have prevented a Loreg amendment, adopted in 1985, from being voted in Parliament until today, to recognize such a basic right as the right to vote for citizens with disabilities and to put an end to their repeated violation. Article 29 of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that countries must ensure equal participation in public and political life, including the right to vote, to stand for election and to hold public office; a convention that Spain ratified just a decade ago, although surprisingly only partially implemented the agreements. But Spain again overshadowed the recommendations and warnings of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2011, as well as article 14 of the Constitution. Although we are currently voting against the PP amendment because it is considered incomplete, today we will adopt this initiative which will allow 100,000 people to exercise their right to vote. It is therefore the responsibility of everyone here to guarantee this right and that of political participation on equal terms for all persons with disabilities and to end this tremendous injustice once and for all. However, we cannot forget that there is still a long way to go so that all people, regardless of their disability, can vote and participate on an equal footing. In this way, I take advantage of my intervention to call on all political forces to continue working in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin my speech, I would like not only to greet but to acknowledge and thank the audience today for their work, civil society actors and promoters of numerous political initiatives, including their work in correcting injustices towards the most vulnerable people in this society, but which we are gradually correcting. [[Applauds]] People and entities like Luis Cayo and Jesús Martín, Cermi State, representatives of Cermi Madrid, Autism Spain, Full Inclusion, Full Inclusion Madrid, Mental Health, Cocemfe, Down Spain, Femaden, Fesorcam, ILSE and other civil society agents present today in the rostrum, people - excuse me if I forget any name - like Mayte, Enrique, Mariano, Javier, María Jesús, Silvia, Juan José, Ana María, Raquel, Antxo... Welcome and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you a story, the story of Kiko. Kiko is one of the 100,000 cases in Spain that have long been deprived of their right to vote as any other citizen. In 1998, when he was eighteen years old, a judge decided that he did not have the capacity to vote and disabled him. Years and elections went by and Kiko was more and more eager to vote. Kiko is interested in politics, so much so that he is a representative of persons with disabilities in his association. In 2012, his family and he decided to request a review of his incapacity to regain the fundamental right to vote. It was a strange situation. Kiko is a responsible, sensitive and committed person, volunteering on the Red Cross, but when the Kiko elections came, like many others, he had to stay home and watch the result on television without being able to participate in the so-called 'great party of democracy'. Not all people who cannot vote turn to their sentence, first because they cannot do so themselves and need the permission of their family or guardian, and second because it is a long, difficult and costly process. Kiko, for example, was given a test by the judge to prove whether he had the knowledge to vote. He was asked about the names of some ministers and other issues such as, for example, what VAT is. Do you think it is fair, ladies and gentlemen, to examine people like Kiko and not the rest of the citizens? For this and for many things it is so important that today we agree to change the Electoral Law and that all those in Kiko's situation regain their legitimate right to vote. [[Applauds.-Show a sheet with the slogan: My vote counts]] As has already been said, there are more than one hundred thousand people throughout Spain who cannot vote yet and are awaiting what we are doing here today in order to be able to vote next year. Let's hurry, ladies and gentlemen, hurry the hell up. In the 2015 elections many people in the same situation as Kiko believed that they would be able to vote and ended up concentrating on the door of Congress, but it wasn't done and we didn't get there in time. It is fair to acknowledge this, it is thanks to Cermi and his request to the Ombudsman in 2016, that it was that germ necessary after years of social demand to recover this fundamental right and to leave that social and legal death, contrary, as has been said by previous speakers, to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, as stated in article 29, or to our Spanish Constitution, articles 23, 14 or 49. But what is more important, and because it is of justice, simply, as I said in my speech on November 7, 2017 in this very rostrum, when it was taken into consideration, after collecting the demand of the Madrid Assembly and unanimously, my colleagues at the head of the social area, of disability and functional diversity Tomás Marcos and Alberto Reyero did a magnificent job, and from here I thank them publicly. It's an honor to work and learn from you every day. [[Applauds]] Here, in this House, where national sovereignty resides, we expect the same. Just a few months ago the presentation and parliamentary work began in which, from my group, my colleague, Marcial Gómez, has done an excellent job. From here, too, I would like to thank you for allowing me the honour of speaking in this debate on one of the outstanding subjects of our democracy to this day: ensuring the equal political participation of all people, whether they have these disabilities or not. Injustice, disregard, laziness or forgetfulness could not be the ally to forget us, ladies and gentlemen, the legislators, of these people. Full participation in public and political life cannot be in question; in this vital matter there should be no ideologies or parties. This initiative is not of the Socialist Party, it is not of the United We can, it is not of the Citizens, it is not of the People's Party or of the PNV or of the Joint Group, it is of the whole Spanish society represented here. Unanimity, ladies and gentlemen, is what citizenship requires. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u68	Mrs Arévalo Caraballo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u69	Thank you, President. Today we are making progress in democracy, today we are making progress in human rights, today we have a hundred thousand people who recognise the right to vote in our country. This progress, which has taken a long time to come, does so after a permanent struggle of the social movement of functional diversity. We have not been the promoters of political parties; the merit is yours. [[Applauds]] The merit once again lies with organised civil society. Thank you for not stopping pushing; thanks to Full Inclusion for your campaign My vote counts; thanks to Cermi for putting on the table this proposal to reform the Electoral Law and thanks, especially to Jesús Martín Blanco, who never gets tired, who never gives up and who every day fights for human rights and for the fulfillment of the convention. This democratic advance is yours and not those of us who are on the rostrum today. Thank you. [[Applauds]] The proposal that came to this House had the will to add to the inclusion and emancipation of people with functional diversity. Therefore, our commitment to the social movement was to respect the absolute literality of it. But during the legislative process, the People's Party tabled an amendment. This amendment contravened the spirit of the proposed law and, therefore, the United Nations Convention and all the parliamentary groups present in that paper reject the amendment. And when we had already signed the favourable report, the People's Party, which saw that it remained out, amended its own amendment. That is when from the social movement itself we were asked to support this amendment as a compromise for the sake of consensus. This to United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-In Marea put us in a very complicated situation because, ladies and gentlemen, we had already done it. We were moving forward in democracy and human rights, without conditions, and by accepting the amendment of the People's Party we have taken a step back again, just so that we could all get out of the picture. It's a shame. I say that we have taken another step back because we are leaving - and this is our opinion - in the hands of we do not know who the limitation of the autonomy of people with functional diversity is. How and who will decide about consciousness, freedom and will? How will it be ensured that this is not decided on the basis of symbolic and prejudiced representations? For Unidos We can see the proposal that came to the House was much more assertive and much more in line with the paradigm of personal autonomy. In our view, as the reform of the Electoral Law will remain, it gives rise to legal uncertainty and leaves room for exclusion. Article 29 of the Convention provides that States parties shall guarantee to persons with disabilities political rights and the possibility of enjoying them on equal terms with others. The convention does not impose conditions, ladies and gentlemen, but the amendment of the People's Party does do so by putting the conditions of conscience, free and voluntary black on white. Those words, those conditions, those concepts are a barrier. Eye!, this does not surprise us and does not surprise us because the People's Party has always maintained a position in this fairly Gatopardian reform. I explain myself, and for this I will quote the former Minister Montserrat who, when asked about this question, said the following: We must establish a criterion of interpretation of her competence in order to be voters. Well, this is what the amendment does, setting criteria for the interpretation of competition to be voters. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have said so far is the position and opinion of the United Nations We can, but, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the social movement of functional diversity asked us to support the amendment and, as we had committed ourselves to being mere facilitators of the social change that this amendment of the electoral law entailed, we have done so. Although it seems clearly insufficient to us, we are going to support this reform because this is what the collective has asked us to do and because it is urgent that almost a hundred thousand people can vote in the forthcoming European, autonomous and municipal elections. Once this reform is approved, not everything will be done. In the area of human rights and functional diversity, you must continue to overcome progress. We must continue to work and legislate to ensure that information is easy to read in the coming elections; there are pictograms; we must continue to work and legislate to ensure accessibility; and we must continue to work and legislate to advance on equality and inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome to your home, the house that will now be everyone's, even those who currently cannot vote and which, therefore, is not so much their home. Thank you. [[Applauds]] In this year of processing we have put this date many times on the calendar, right? But in the end here we are, finishing the way to return dignity to a part of whom we represent. The procedure to which the Socialists have not tabled amendments, since the text voted unanimously in the Madrid Assembly and here in its consideration ensured that we were the eighth country in Europe where the will of persons with disabilities is not suppressed or replaced and that they can exercise their will with the appropriate help. The Socialists wanted to make up for the lost time in adapting the Electoral Law to article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights seventy years ago, to article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights fifty-two years ago, to article 23 of the Constitution forty years ago, to 12 and 29 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities twelve years ago, to article 53 of the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities five years ago, which reads: Persons with disabilities can exercise the right to participate in political life and in electoral processes on an equal footing with other citizens, for which public administrations must make available to them the means and resources they need; year 2013. Furthermore, we wanted to respond to the recommendation made to us by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities seven years ago, telling us that they were concerned that the right to vote of persons with intellectual or psychosocial disabilities could be restricted and that the deprivation of that right seemed to be the rule and not the exception. It recommended that we review our legislation and regretted the lack of information on rules, motives and criteria for judges to deprive them of the right to vote. Recommendation that we have been reminded of the Ombudsman who asked us to do so with the consensus of the political forces, as the disability sector also claims. I will not delve into legal matters. It gives me the impression that this is not what is expected of a socialist spokesman in the Committee on Integral Policies for Disability, but I will quote more reasons that we have been repeating and for which our group will vote in favour: because it is on our electoral agenda, and that is why we became godfathers of the initiative in the Madrid Assembly; because the parents of the initiative were people with disabilities and their families; because it is a personal commitment of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez; for consistency with our trajectory. I recall that Ramón Jáuregui defended him in 2013 at the Constitutional Commission when he was introduced by then Member Jordi Jané, at the suggestion of Conchita Tarruella, urging the Government to prepare a report to bring Loreg into line with the international convention, a report that had to be done in six months. Not six months have passed, ten times six months, chronologically coinciding with Rajoy's government of cuts and forgetfulness. We will also support it because we have learned a lot in the process, convincing ourselves even more of the proposal. We learned in December 2016, when it was debated in the Madrid Assembly; we learned in June 2017, in the day to explain its content in which Ángel Gabilondo and Silvana González participated; we learned in November 2017, when we discussed it here. And we will support it because defending the weak sectors of our society is part of our raison d'être, of our raison d'être, of our DNA, as demonstrated by the General Health Law or the Dependency Law, or following the Councils of Ministers of this government, or reading the General State Budgets Agreement for 2019, budgets for a social state. We will also vote for it because we are weighed down by some of those affected, as happened on October 1 at the round table organized by Plena Inclusion, when Kiko Mora and Virginia Martín, Nacho Tremiño, Jordi Xuclà, Diego Clemente, Teresa Arévalo, me and Íñigo Alli, in their role as moderator, demanded that we vote in the 2019 elections and asked what we would do to understand the programs. By the way, I replied that we do not know how to make ourselves understood by much of those who do have the right to vote. In addition, we will support it because it is framed in a path in which the socialists are committed, thus pushing the subcommission to end a vestige of discrimination and inclusion and amending - as explained on the 21st day by the Minister spokesman of the Government - laws that do not comply with the commitment to respect the human rights of people with some kind of disability. A year ago in the consideration I said that I hoped that December would be the last time that 2,000 people in Tarragona had no right to vote. I also said this because, this step on the road to preventing dignity from being taken away or to return it to nearly 100,000 people throughout Spain who are unable to vote, will also help our disabled neighbours, who are neighbours of all, to exercise another right, the right to be happier. It will be easier if we all do so together and for what the Socialist Parliamentary Group will always be able to count on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u72	Mr Tremiño Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I don't know if I'm gonna need the microphone because I'm gonna talk loud and clear to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank and record my personal and party thanks to all political forces for supporting the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Party to the proposed law to amend the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime, to guarantee the right of persons with disabilities, of all people. And, as some of you have already said here that you do not agree with the People's Party and with this amendment, but that you take it out of responsibility and because it is claimed by organised civil society, I tell you to be calm. I want to reassure your consciences, ladies and gentlemen, I want nothing to take away their dream of accepting an amendment from the People's Party. They do the right thing, I tell you; don't worry. [[Applauds]] Don't worry, the People's Party knows better than anyone the needs and rights of people with disabilities and I'm going to tell you why. Many of you have met Francisco Vañó, Paco Vañó, the deputy of disability - as he liked to be called - the politician who has worked most in Spain for people with disabilities..., and was a politician of the People's Party, more than twenty-five years ago. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has no disability lessons, none; I'm sorry, none, they're late. We were there. Paco had already met with persons with disabilities more than 25 years ago and worked with them to advance their rights. [[Pointing to the public gallery]] So I invite you personally, if you want to know more about disability, to meet with me; I invite you to have coffee whenever you need it, I guarantee it. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that they will kill two birds with one shot - in the figurative sense -: they will first-hand know a person who is neither the best nor the worst, of the pile; I am a person with disabilities, but having disability and being of the People's Party I am a normal, normal person, as we are all people of the People's Party. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] Article 29 states that States parties shall guarantee to persons with disabilities political rights and the equal enjoyment of them. On an equal footing, it means that persons with disabilities cannot be required to do what others are not required to do; but it also means that what is required of all persons with disabilities must be demanded of persons with disabilities. That is what people with real disabilities want: equality; we want nothing more or less, equality like the rest of the citizens. Equality. [[Applauds]] The amendment, which I repeat, thank you again for your support today and for voting in favour, says: everyone will be able to exercise his or her right of active, conscious, free and voluntary suffrage whatever his or her way of communicating it and with whatever means of support he or she requires. At no time, ladies and gentlemen, is this said to be required of persons with disabilities. If anyone is required to do so, everyone, all citizens alike, as stated in article 29 of the Convention, is required to do exactly what the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities itself says, legally and fairly. If they are required, because they are not required or limited to anyone; on the contrary, what is said is that the right of all people to vote freely, voluntarily and consciously is guaranteed, which is a right, because if you vote against this, you would be sending a message to the citizenry very contrary to what you are sure you think; you would be saying that you do not want a free vote, that you do not want a vote with full freedom and that you do not want a voluntary vote. I am sure that is not what they want, and that is why I understand that you must support, as you have already said here, that amendment by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances does this amendment go unnoticed, if it does anything to add up. It adds much because it strengthens the right of all voters to vote, it adds because it treats all people, all voters, all voters, persons with disabilities and persons without disabilities equally. That is why I ask you again, and I thank you, to support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish democracy is bigger today because we are opening the doors of democracy to all citizens, including citizens with disabilities. True, today we are opening up democracy to all people, including people with disabilities. Appreciate it. [[Applauds]] As has been said here, it is not the merit of political parties, it is the merit of organised civil society, and I would also like to thank you now. But I personally want to thank all the comrades of my party who have been accomplices with me in this project, all of them, and especially since the beginning of this project and in chronological order, Rafa Hernando, José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro, Paco Martínez and, recently, Isabel Borrego, Dolors Monserrat and Pablo Casado himself, president of the People's Party, who two weeks ago made it clear, to 3000 people with disabilities, that disability is part of the DNA of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Finally, I do not want to forget much less, so I leave it to the end, the organizations of persons with disabilities that are represented here today. [[Addressing the public gallery]] I don't want to forget much less because I carry them every day in my head and in my heart; you know that. I've been in a wheelchair for twenty-seven years, and today all people with disabilities have to be proud of the entities that represent us. I am proud of the associations that represent me as disabled, and I am also proud of my party, the People's Party. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Strong applause.- Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress show a sign that says: My vote counts. For the vote of persons with disabilities]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the debate on the opinion of the draft organic law on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights. [[Rumors]] To defend the amendments to this initiative, I have the floor, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter this debate...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u77	Quiet, please. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u78	Thank you. Before I enter this debate, allow me to join in thanking and congratulating you on the previous point. We will finally have people with disabilities, with their political participation, with everything they bring us and with everything they enrich us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Diego, dear, for your words. [[Applauds]] Turning to the question, it is also gratifying that this plenary will today adopt a new regulation of the Organic Law on Data Protection; a new legal framework under the umbrella of the European regulation which has generated many doubts and expectations. We are faced with a law necessary to guarantee the rights of citizens in relation to the protection of personal data; a logical evolution resulting from our changing social reality and from how new technologies have affected the processing of information and our personal data. It is also because it was not enough to directly implement the European regulation, which left many issues of great importance to the internal regulation of each State; let us remember that in the case of Spain it was necessary to adopt a real decree on a transitional basis. It should also be emphasized that it is a law in which a high degree of consensus has been reached and is presumably to be adopted unanimously. In this regard, I would like to thank the work and colouring of all the Members who have taken part in the presentation. Many of our amendments tabled have been incorporated into the opinion adopted in the Commission, others have been withdrawn for the sake of consensus and we have only four amendments alive. We do so because, in addition to generally congratulating ourselves on the adoption of this law, we also have an obligation to point out, we have an obligation to draw attention to lost opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, if our amendments are not adopted, we will be missing the opportunity to give a letter of nature to the positive solvency files. We believe that they should be included in the data whose treatment is presumed lawful, because we believe that it is good and important to prevent future economic crises. It is also good for consumers, because so far the only information that circulates about us in the credit market is our poor financial reputation, which does not benefit consumers at all, and only favours banks. We are convinced that with the positive files, that is, the data on our good financial reputation, will increase the credit, will reduce the lateness and also the credits will be cheaper for consumers. On the other hand, we will lose the opportunity to continue deepening in the depoliticization of our institutions. The model of election of the presidency of the Data Protection Agency set out in this law seems to us insufficient, so we propose an alternative model of parliamentary election, because in the current wording the election of that binomial or bicephaly of the presidency and the figure of the deputy, election by simple majority of two parliamentary groups, will in practice have the opposite effect on the role, will translate into a division of seats between two of the large groups in this House. I mean, we're not just going to talk about fingers anymore, we're going to talk about fingers and the attachment to the finger. [[Applauds]] So even though something seems to change, in reality bipartisanism never wants to change anything. We will also lose the opportunity to have an advisory board of the agency with a more technical, more political profile, more able to carry out that advisory work to the chair that it is responsible for, such as the one we propose in our amendment. And we also maintain our amendment to abolish the blocking of Article 32 data in line with our objective of ensuring that the rule is consistent and consistent with the rest of the States of the European Union. The European Regulation does not provide for this general obligation to create a new category of data, the blocked data, which do not exist in the Regulation. I want to refer very briefly to Title X of the law. My group values the recognition of digital rights. However, we were not at all pleased that they were introduced by means of amendments, without the public participation and the mandatory reports to accompany them. In law the forms are important, and time has given me the reason, because, when you open the door to inconsistent amendments or again content, it happens what happens: that you intend to paste amendments, like the famous amendment 32, soiling the fight against gender violence as a trick to jump into the Senate in the approval of the general budgets. I conclude by saying that I am convinced that we are going to adopt a guarantee rule for citizenship, which at the same time is reasonable and can be complied with as, in fact, the new legal framework is being fulfilled in the direct application of the regulation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u79	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u80	Thank you, Madam President. May I remind the previous speaker that, under no circumstances, has a spurious amendment been introduced in the handling of this bill. They were all amendments relating to the text of this law and, as such, have been processed. If there is a new title X, the result of the contribution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is that my parliamentary group has found it positive to definitively incorporate the guarantee of digital rights into a legal text of the highest rank. It is clear that if it had been an original text of the Socialist Party Government, it would have come into the Government's bill and therefore the pre-receptive procedures would have been complied with, but the People's Party Government did not consider it. We are before a bill that concludes its proceedings today, after many months. It came in November last year and the amendment period ended in April. It is a bill of a People's Party government, promoted by the People's Party in the course of the paper and, in the middle of its proceedings, there is a change of government and is now being promoted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I believe that, despite the diversity of views, we must congratulate ourselves on the way it has been handled. After all, I think we will be able to fulfil that commitment, which we outlined in a public act near here, that the bill would come to be published in the BOE before the end of this year, and I think we are on time. My group has tabled about 30 amendments to this bill. Much of them have been collected and traded, and we have kept six alive. Specifically, number 8, which speaks of the right to delete data from religious archives that is related to the right to apostasy and the deletion of data from any religious archive. As it has a very clear political content, we wanted to keep it for discussion here in the House. We have also maintained Amendment No 10, which deals with the application of the rights granted to mortgage debtors at risk of exclusion, the breakdown of debts in credit information systems or the communication to the affected party of the consultation of their data in these same credit information systems. We felt it was important to maintain this amendment. We have also maintained the amendment that would prohibit the recording of audio to workers. Much of our amendments were intended to guarantee workers' rights at their workplace in cases involving various types of recording, both image and sound, and, much of them too, have been admitted, but there was one issue, which was audio recording, which we were concerned about, and that is why we have kept this amendment to the end. We have also maintained Amendment No 21, on the sanction of the data protection officer in the event of fraud or negligence; Amendment No 23, which seeks to apply to trade unions the institutional group regime, or Amendment No 24, which sets a minimum amount of EUR 300 to be included in the files of the credit information system. Our parliamentary group welcomes the inclusion and compromise of many other issues, such as consent, which was a very dangerous issue and which raised a great deal of concern among various sectors related to biomedical research. We have managed to resolve this, and not asking the Government to bring a bill in within a certain time frame, but in this same bill by making an amendment that affects several laws, from the General Health Act to the Patient's Autonomy Act. They have already been included in this bill, and they have been included until the last hour; that is, at the last moment, an amendment was tabled in vote by all the groups amending this paragraph. The protection of workers' data has been included, which my parliamentary group was very much in favour of, and amendments have also been accepted from my group for the training of data protection delegates, which reinforced the independence of data protection delegates. On the appointment of the president of the agency, we had a proposal; it is not ours and we have had to make a proposal among all but, fortunately, we believe it is a more participatory formula. Ultimately, it will be the Government, on the proposal of the Ministry, that approves it, but there will be a prior process that will be for public nominations and then for approval of those nominations by the House. We are innovating, we are not going to the maximum we would like, but at least we have negotiated it in a considerable improvement. We have also agreed on a one-year deadline, in a compromise amendment, for the Government to bring a bill to the House in defence of the rights of minors on the Internet. Guarantees have been strengthened in collective agreements and even the Workers' Statute itself has been reformed, i.e. a number of issues have been included that my parliamentary group called for and that we have all been able to deal with. I'm done thanking you. First of all, the rapporteurs, especially the two who have taken him: Francisco Martínez of the People's Party, and Artemi Rallo of the Socialist Party; my colleague Sara Carreño, for his commitment and for his push to defend our amendments in the presentation; and, above all, the lawyers of the Commission, Piedad García and Isabel Revuelta, who have been magnificent in helping us to clear a law that I believe is going to the Senate quite well done so that we do not have to change many things. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. We started this process of the Organic Data Protection Law from the Democratic Party with an amendment to the whole. We presented an amended whole because we understood that in the text presented by the People's Group there was a clear setback as regards the competences of the Catalan Autoritat de Protecció de Dades. The Catalan authority, as you know, is competent in its sphere of action in all matters affecting the subject we are dealing with today and, therefore, we could not allow a law adapting the regulation to be much more restrictive than the regulation itself provided for. We were lucky enough to find a rapporteur in the Socialist Party who worked hard and understood this reality, Mr Artemi Rallo, whom I would like to thank for his efforts at consensus. It is true that the Catalan authority not only has the powers assigned to it by the l'Statut d'Autonomie de Catalunya, but also has all those powers that the Regulation expressly can assign to it. Therefore, of the three authorities that exist in the Spanish territory, the fact that one is called the Spanish agency does not mean that it can deploy its actions in the whole territory. This, we understand, has become perfectly clear. We shall therefore vote in favour of this approval today. It is a necessary law; it is a law that has not been exempt from delay, as is customary for the Spanish State when it comes to making European regulations its own; it is late, it often does with defects, and it often has to be punished for this. Once again this delay has occurred in this adaptation of the Regulation, which has led to the adoption of a sanctions regime in an almost express manner in order to bring the law into line with the opinions which it intended or which were in favour of the Regulation. Once this procedure of the sanctions has been carried out in order to adapt them to the Spanish order, we have today the complete legislative text and, as I say, we will vote in favour of it. I would like to take this opportunity, from the rostrum, to thank the director of the Catalan Autoritat de Protecció de Dades, Mrs María Àngels Barbarà, who has also worked closely with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Artemi Rallo, to obtain a respectful text, a text which, at least in the area of territorial conflict, does not put a stop to defending the rights of consumers when it comes to their violation and their demand before the courts. Nothing more. Thank you very much and our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u83	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u84	Thank you very much, President. Today we adopt the opinion of the Committee on Justice on the new Organic Law on Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights. In this way, we take a step, almost definitive, to bring Spanish law into line with Union data protection legislation, which had to have taken place before 25 May last, which was the date on which Union Regulation 2016/679 of the Parliament and of the Council was fully applicable. Regulation which, in accordance with Article 288 of the Union's operating agreement, is of general scope, obliges all its elements, is directly applicable, and although it has a uniform nature of national rights it also contains more than half a hundred issues in which Member States are empowered to develop them. That is why, and before taking the step we are taking today to pass the organic law, a real decree-law was approved and validated as a transit rule to give certainty to legal operators regarding the applicable law in those aspects that did not go beyond the constitutional limitation on matters that have been blocked by decree-law by their organic reserve of rank. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u85	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u86	Now, by adopting the Commission's opinion, we are moving almost definitively towards the end of this transit period and entering into the definitive regulation in Spanish law, without prejudice to the existing application of the regulation with regard to the protection of personal data of citizens on matters as relevant as cross-border procedures, the processing of data relating to health, and in relation to research, video surveillance, privacy at work, collaboration between the different supervisory authorities and the articulation of the competences of the autonomous communities, the responsibility of those who process personal data and their obligations, and, finally, many other issues with a significant impact on the fundamental right to honour and privacy of the person in respect of whom we must all be vigilant in a digital world, and therefore the text we adopt today also contains a specific title concerning digital rights. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear and notorious that today we live in the data society that blurs its border with the analog world, making its protection essential.This is also the point of the World Economic Forum when it considers cybersecurity to be one of the most important and remarkable risks we face. That is why the Union, together with the Data Protection Regulation, is also calling on States, through Directive 2016/1148 of 6 July, to ensure the security of information networks and systems, today already transposed by Royal Decree-Law 12/2018 of 7 September, and which we are currently dealing with in this House as a bill. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today we are moving on these paths of regulation and protection relating to the fundamental right to privacy in a society in which personal and all kinds of data have become the oil of the 21st century, which is already widespread in areas that reflect on the digital society. That is why today we must welcome this progress and also congratulate ourselves because we have done it unanimously and collectively, as our colleague and friend, Mr Rallo, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, told us in the Commission the other day. Thus, the text of the draft has been enriched by the contributions of the people who appeared during the work of the paper and also by the contributions of the State Agency for the Protection of Data and Catalan and Basque, and by the contributions of the amendments - more than four hundred - that we have almost entirely been trading, guided by a spirit of agreement and also of responsibility for the matter that we were facing. The resulting text that we approved today, I would also like to say, has been enriched by the work without passing on the lawyers of the Commission and the other technical services of the House. I conclude, Madam President, with the same words with which I ended by adopting this organic bill in the Committee on Justice, calling for this method and attitude to bring us into line with the needs and views of others, without neglecting their own, to set a precedent for what remains of the legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u87	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u88	Thank you, President. As we have often insisted, it is very important to regulate the right to the protection of personal data, a right which entails not only being able to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the personal sphere of the person, but also goes much further and is based on the power to dispose of personal data itself. It is a law that affects us all as citizens and consumers, which aims to guarantee the rights of people and thus the foundations of a democratic society. We are dealing with an organic bill that, thanks to consensus and good work on the part of all groups, has made it possible to complete the regulation contained in the General Data Protection Regulation and that will therefore provide greater legal certainty to both those responsible for data processing and those affected. The text contains a number of issues that will help to improve the implementation of this General Data Protection Regulation, such as the consent of minors, which is established at the age of fourteen and is not covered by the law, only at the regulatory level through Royal Decree 1720/2007; or the processing of data covered by the fulfilment of a legal obligation or a mission of public interest, establishing that it is regulated by a rule of law with a rank of law; or the provision of certain treatments based on legitimate interest, such as contact data from individual entrepreneurs, credit information systems, regulation of certain data processing, such as statistics, video surveillance or regulation of advertising exclusion systems, such as Robinson lists. It also includes the possibility of providing information in two layers, i.e., the law will allow access to all information in an easier and visually more pleasant way; or also the implementation of the sanctioning regime, with the system of description and prescription of conduct being established. Perhaps it is not the model of organic law that we would have liked as a whole, but we have managed to make many improvements in the text and, despite the difficulties and context in which we find ourselves, we have achieved a good text. Above all, we welcome the fact that the law contains the regulation already contained in the General Data Protection Regulation. I have nothing more to add. That is why our group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u89	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u90	President, ladies and gentlemen, today this House will adopt by a very large majority the draft organic law on data protection and the guarantee of digital rights. Our group wishes to begin by thanking the efforts of the many people who have made it possible, first of all, to the ministerial team - minister, undersecretary, technical secretary general - which drafted a solid bill on whose solvency it has been possible to build this consensus. I would also like to express my appreciation to the current team of the Ministry of Justice, which without hesitation has led to the rapid approval of the project. Thanks to the lawyers of the Commission of Justice for their commendable and dedicated technical support, to Professor García-Escudero and, in particular, to Mrs Isabel Revuelta. Thanks also to the team of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, its director, Mar España, and its state lawyer, Agustín Puente, because their support in our deliberations has guaranteed rigour and quality. I would also like to thank the directors of the Catalan and Basque agencies for contributing to a respectful scrutiny of the competition distribution. And, of course, thanks to the rapporteurs of all the groups, who without exception, with their personal and political talent, have made possible this consensus; a personal and political talent that speaks for itself in the light of the successful outcome achieved. In particular, I would like to express this appreciation for the work of the rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Francisco Martínez, who has shared the coordination and momentum of this initiative and who also has a large part of its merit. Ladies and gentlemen, this law strengthens the protection of the fundamental right to data protection in our country by scrupulously respecting the European Regulation. This law contributes to preserving and renewing the prestige treasured for decades by Spain in the vanguard and leadership of data protection in Europe. But this law goes much further. Today we not only adopt a data protection law, we also adopt a digital rights law today. To date, no European country has adopted a law that systematically guarantees citizens' digital rights. For the first time a European State will guarantee digital rights by law in all areas, both individual and collective, affected by technology. [[The lady]] For the Socialists, the support of the groups in this House is welcome, and we are grateful and grateful to all groups for having endorsed this initiative and for helping to improve it. From today, words such as digital disconnection, oblivion, neutrality, portability, universal access or digital will, among others, will be much more familiar to us. There are new digital rights. Rights in the workplace, such as the right to digital disconnection to guarantee privacy and family reconciliation, the rights of workers to video surveillance or geolocation devices, the rights of workers to guarantee their basic expectations of privacy in the use of computers or corporate phones. Rights in the educational field, such as the right of students to learning in the use of digital media secure and respectful of constitutional values and rights and also of teachers to demand identical training, the protection of minors through balanced and responsible use of digital devices and the dissemination of images and personal data on social networks. We also have the right to forget on the Internet, the right to portability, the right to the digital will and many other digital rights. There are also political commitments, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure universal access to the Internet without socio-economic discrimination or generational, geographical or gender gaps. Ladies and gentlemen, the will of agreement and consensus in this House has made this possible. Spain is back at the forefront of the recognition of new citizenship rights, and today is one of those days when we too have the right to be proud of our parliamentary work. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Rallo Lombarte. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning at the plenary session of the Congress we discussed the opinion of the Justice Commission on the draft organic law on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights, which was adopted last week in that Commission unanimously. As has already been said in this rostrum, last November there was a bill in the House to regulate a matter that, nobody escapes, is technically complex, but also extremely relevant to the protection of fundamental rights in this digital society. Well, in the parliamentary process in the House, we had the opportunity to listen to experts in this area, to incorporate input from the parliamentary groups and to achieve a broad consensus that will make it possible today to adopt a good law, with strong parliamentary support and, therefore, with a paradigmatic consensus. The Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, welcomes this broad consensus and appreciates the efforts and generosity of the rapporteurs of all the groups and the work done in the Commission. It is fair to acknowledge that in this work we have benefited from the experience of the rapporteur of the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo, for several years as Director of the Agency for Data Protection. Our political formation, the Popular Group, has an unequivocal bet for technological innovation, for the digital economy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u94	Thank you. ... and that is why we consider it a priority to also protect the fundamental rights that are most compromised, more exposed to risk in this digital environment. See, this is the case with regard to the right to the protection of personal data, which our Constitution collected with striking anticipation in article 18.4 and whose contours have been outlined by the Constitutional Court. In a global and hyper-connected world, the protection of personal data against illegitimate, fraudulent, abusive and even in many criminal cases must necessarily be addressed with a transnational vocation. That is why today the main regulation of this right is found in a European standard, in the General Data Protection Regulation, which, as you know well, came into force on 25 May. However, there are aspects which the general regulation leaves to the Member States and which, in any case, in our country required the adoption of an organic law of some complexity. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can say with satisfaction that in Spain we will have a good law complementary to the main rule, which will be the European regulation. The text that we are going to vote on in a few minutes achieves balances that initially did not seem easy: first, the balance between intense protection of the right and certain processing of personal data that can lead to significant social progress. In that regard, I think we should be particularly proud of having found appropriate legislative formulas to protect particularly sensitive data, such as data that affect people's health, but without harming the progress that data processing can make in research in this field, always with the utmost guarantees. Secondly, the balance, within the system of delimitation of competences, between the State and the autonomous communities in this field, in accordance with the consolidated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and, of course, the essential balance between the protection of personal data and opportunities for economic development, the provision of new services belonging to the digital society and an economic model in which the data constitute a new object of commercial traffic. I think it's good news that all groups can consider that we've done a good job. For that very reason, and at the risk of being somewhat repetitive, I would like to conclude by expressing the thanks of the People's Group to those who have played a prominent role in the adoption of this legislative initiative. First of all, of course, the Government, author of a bill of enormous technical quality, which was the starting point of the House's work, a thank you that I would like to customize in the Minister of Justice, Rafael Catalá, and in his excellent team in the ministry. [[Applauds]] Secondly, to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, to all its professional team, for an indispensable work in support of the work of the presentation and for its generosity by always facilitating agreement and consensus, and in this same key also thanks to the Basque agency, to the Catalan agency, to its directors and teams. Thirdly, all the experts representing sectors that have made valuable contributions in the processing of this bill, thanks to their patience, understanding and observations, which have been essential to enrich the vision and knowledge of Members, and, ultimately, thanks always to the lawyers of the Commission of Justice, Isabel Revuelta and Piedad García-Escudero, for their essential technical advice in the legislative procedure. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think it is customary for legislative initiatives to be adopted in this House with such broad consensus. On this occasion, we have been able to agree with rigour and generosity, and I believe that this is good news for all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u96	We turn to the agenda item on the request for a four-month extension of the deadline for the adoption of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. In three minutes we shall begin the vote. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the vote. We vote, first, the Royal Decree-Law 14/2018, of 28 September, amending the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015, of 23 October. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 270; abstentions, 70 plus 2 telematics votes, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u98	It's validated. We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the request for the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u99	It shall be dealt with by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2018, OF 5 OCTOBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR ENERGY TRANSITION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION. [[File number 130/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u100	We now vote on the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018 of 5 October on urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 178 plus 2 telematics votes, 180; against, 2; abstentions, 160.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u101	It's validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; against, 5; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u102	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to vote on the proposal for an organic law to amend the General Electoral Regime 5/1985 of 19 June to guarantee the right of all persons with disabilities to vote. Firstly, we are going to vote on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 340 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u104	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, this general vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June on the General Electoral Regime is organic in nature and therefore requires an absolute majority. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342. [[Applause from all parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u106	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for moving forward with the applause for approval. [[Laughter]] The proposal for an organic law was approved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u107	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the draft organic law on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights. Firstly, we voted on the amendments of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 30 against, 309 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u108	They're rejected. We voted on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THAT GROUP. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 74 against, 258 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u109	They're rejected. We shall vote on the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u110	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the whole bill - which I remind you is organic, so it needs an absolute majority - on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u112	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-18-CD181018.u113	Then, ladies and gentlemen, we voted for the request for a four-month extension of the deadline for carrying out the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
